Skip to content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Alumni Parents News Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Search smu.edu Search smu.edu Primary Menu Simmons About Academics & Prospective Students Research Our Faculty Community Engagement Alumni Baker Joins the Ranks of Top 200 Education Scholars Influencing Public Discourse Posted on January 5, 2022Updated: January 5, 2022 Dominique Baker, assistant professor of education policy in Simmons, is one of 200 top education scholars who move ideas from academic journals into the public sphere. The designation is part of the 2022 RHSU Edu-Scholar Public Influence Rankings, posted annually by Frederich M. Hess, an Education Week blogger, and director of the American Enterprise Institute’s education policy studies. According to Hess, the scholars must excel in five areas: disciplinary scholarship, policy analysis and popular writing, convening and shepherding collaborations, providing incisive media commentary, and speaking in the public square. “This year, two junior faculty made the top 200: Harvard’s Anthony A. Jack, at 159, and Southern Methodist’s Dominique Baker, at 187. Given that the exercise, by design, favors scholars who’ve built bodies of work and had a sustained impact, these two are deserving of particular notice,” he said. The Simmons School congratulates Baker for her high accomplishment. Categories: Education Policy, Education Research, Featured Research, General News & Announcements, Higher Education Read other articles Dept. of Education Awards Ketterlin Geller $8M for Math Intervention Project Allor Presents Expertise in Dallas Morning News Article on Language Development Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Recent Posts CORE partners with the Walton Family Foundation on Fellowship for Evaluators in Philanthropy SMU Student Senate To Fund Scholarships For West Dallas STEM School Attendees, Rotunda Scholars Professor Ketterlin Geller Gives Address at Honors Convocation 2022 Dominique Baker Receives Grant to Examine If Media Coverage of Student Debt Impacts the Narrative Simmons Continues on the Upswing in U.S.News & World Report Rankings for Best Graduate Schools in Education Categories Applied Physiology Bilingual/ESL Conflict Resolution Counseling Department of Wellness Dispute Resolution Dyslexia Early Childhood Education Policy Education Research Exercise Physiology Featured News Featured Research General News & Announcements Gifted Health Higher Education Math Education Philanthropy PreSchool Teacher Education Slideshow Special Education Sport Management STEM Teaching and Learning Technology Uncategorized Upward Bound Videos Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube