Skip to main content UC Berkeley Blog Toggle navigation Culture & humanities Economics Environment Mind & body Politics & law Science & technology Other Campus scholars' perspectives on topical issues — in conversation with you Striking a balance between climate despair and magical solutions by Ronald Amundson Turkey, the belligerent NATO member? Cihan Tugal, professor, sociology | May 26, 2022 Turkey’s treatment of the Kurds is now center stage — but not because allies have woken up to the injustice of Kurds’ systematic oppression. Instead, it’s because Turkey is effectively threatening to block the admittance of Finland and Sweden to NATO unless they agree to crack down on Kurdish militants. For President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, seeing an opportunity to further cement his nationalist agenda, it’s a bold gambit. The tepid response from NATO allies so far suggests he might be successful. Helping Ukraine: How to donate effectively Anastassia Fedyk, Assistant professor of finance | May 25, 2022 co-authored with Andrii Parkhomenko (University of South California) Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has galvanized the free world. Governments across the globe have imposed sanctions on Russia and providing billions of dollars in aid to Ukrainians. Private companies and individuals have banded together to support Ukraine’s humanitarian needs. By some estimates, Ukraine has received almost $900 … Continue reading » California can do better than carbon neutrality by 2045 Daniel Kammen, Class of 1935 Distinguished Professor of Energy | May 22, 2022 This originally appeared as an Opinion Piece in the May 17 Los Angeles Times by Daniel Kammen https://www.latimes.com/opinion/story/2022-05-17/california-air-resources-board-carbon-neutrality-2045-2030 Ten years ago, many Californians could not have imagined the climate nightmare we are living today — dark orange skies during wildfire season, heat waves in the dead of winter, mandatory water restrictions amid crippling … Continue reading » Open Letter to Noam Chomsky (and other like-minded intellectuals) on the Russia-Ukraine war Yuriy Gorodnichenko, professor of economics | May 19, 2022 coauthored with Bohdan Kukharskyy (City University of New York), Anastassia Fedyk (UC Berkeley) and Ilona Sologoub (VoxUkraine) Dear Professor Chomsky, We are a group of Ukrainian academic economists who were grieved by a series of your recent interviews and commentaries on the Russian war on Ukraine. We believe that your public opinion on this … Continue reading » Six actions to make belonging real in tech Guest Blogger, Othering and Belonging Institute | May 18, 2022 This blog was authored by UC Berkeley Othering and Belonging experts Emnet Almedom, Nicole Montojo and Eli Moore. The ideas expressed in this post are not necessarily those of the Othering & Belonging Institute or UC Berkeley, but belong to the authors. What would it take to collectively own our data? How could we regulate the environmental … Continue reading » Striking a balance between climate despair and magical solutions by Ronald Amundson Author sampling Candace Falk Candace Falk Emma Goldman Papers sounds the alarm for Nasty Women – past and present – to unite Christopher Eldred Research Analyst, Berkeley Roundtable on the International Economy (BRIE) and Work and Intelligent Tools and Systems Policymakers must understand 5G's potential and its pitfalls Jeffrey Edleson professor of social welfare Beyond the First Amendment: the impact of police presence on campus Joe Pridmore Cal-in-Senate fellow, student from London Brexit: Trumpism with a posh accent Jen Schradie research fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in Toulouse The false media focus on violence: If it bleeds it still leads William Nazaroff professor of environmental engineering Toward climate-change mitigation All Authors All Authors More than 350 UC Berkeley scholars share their perspectives on local, national and global issues. The opinions expressed on the Berkeley Blog are the authors’ own and do not necessarily reflect the official view of UC Berkeley. RSS Subscribe by email Browse Berkeley News Campus events calendar About All Authors About the Berkeley Blog Contact us Admin Log In Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy