Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Public Outdoor Sculpture at Columbia Meadmore’s Curl…Conservation Complete Posted on December 22, 2015 (January 12, 2016) by Roberto Ferrari Anyone walking past Uris Hall these days will now notice that Clement Meadmore’s sculpture The Curl is looking better than ever, or at least better than it has for the past 15+ years. Seeing it in its newly-conserved state, the viewer can appreciate fully Meadmore’s intent of using the painted surface of the sculpture to create a sleek, sinuous form that belies the weight and hard materiality of its Cor-Ten structure. Although rust is a natural part of the appeal of Cor-Ten steel, environmental conditions led to the erosion of the steel in some parts and an adverse reaction with the paint. After nearly three months of conservation work spearheaded by Conservation Solutions, Inc.–to whom we owe our thanks for all their hard work–we are now pleased to showcase Meadmore’s masterpiece in its newly-conserved state. Upon seeing the sculpture, Ellen Goldberg, Trustee of the Meadmore Foundation, recently responded with exuberance that “Clem” would be thrilled with the results. In September, The Curl was dismantled and removed from the campus, then traveled to Virginia, where in a warehouse layers of old paint were removed and the entire sculpture pressure-cleaned to remove all the rust. Areas of degradation and fissures in the surface were repaired with new steel. The entire sculpture was then sprayed with a zinc coating to strengthen its resistance to natural degradation, then sanded to create an even surface, but respecting the original surface conditions from when the sculpture was first made. Once the sculpture returned to campus, it was housed in a tent so the final coats of paint could be rolled on, as they would have been applied in Meadmore’s day. Only when the sculpture was fully dry and cured was the tent removed to reveal the sculpture in its revitalized form. To see more photos of the return of the sculpture to campus, go to the Avery Library blog, https://blogs.cul.columbia.edu/avery/2015/12/22/the-curl-is-back/. A brief rededication ceremony was held on December 16, 2015, to celebrate the beauty of this sculpture and its importance to Columbia, and to acknowledge all of Columbia’s partners for their critical roles in bringing this project to fruition: Office of the Provost, Columbia Business School, Columbia University Facilities, Columbia University Libraries, the Meadmore Task Force and the Committee on Art Properties. To see the latest video produced by Columbia’s Office of Communications about The Curl, including historical footage and highlights from the recent rededication ceremony, go to https://vimeo.com/columbiauniversity/review/149888572/2bfc55c0a5. As with all the public outdoor sculpture, we kindly remind everyone to please respect these sculptures by not climbing on them or abusing or vandalizing them in any way. By doing this, you are helping to ensure the long-term preservation of these important art works for generations to come. Thank you. Image Credit: Clement Meadmore, The Curl, 1968, Cor-Ten steel with paint, Gift of Percy Uris (1968.3.1), Photo: Brett Essler, Columbia Business School. Posted in MorningsideTagged CBS photos, Clement Meadmore, conservation, Curl Post navigation Meadmore’s Curl…Dismantling a Steel SculptureNew Public Outdoor Sculpture by Henry Moore…Coming Soon! One thought on “Meadmore’s Curl…Conservation Complete” Pingback: Meadmore’s Curl Conservation | Brett Essler Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name Email Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Search Categories Baker Field Barnard College Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Maps Morningside Tags Alexander Hamilton Alma Mater Anna Hyatt Huntington AP photos Auguste Rodin Battle of Harlem Heights Bellerophon Taming Pegasus CBS photos Clement Meadmore Columbia Lion conservation Constantin Meunier CU photos Curl Daniel Chester French David Bakalar Equestrian Lincoln Frederick Roth George Grey Barnard Greg Wyatt Henry Moore J.H. Van Amringe Jacques Lipschitz James Edward Kelly Kees Verkade Le Marteleur Life Force maps notices Pan public photos Reclining Figure Scholars Lion Teaching projects Thinker Thomas Jefferson Three-Way Piece Tight Rope Walkers University Archives videos William Ordway Partridge Archives August 2018 July 2018 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 March 2016 December 2015 September 2015 April 2015 December 2014 November 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 Recent Posts Constantin Meunier and Le Marteleur Conservation Video Summer 2018 Conservation Summer 2018 Project from Spring 2017: Greg Wyatt, Scholars’ Lion Project from Spring 2017: Auguste Rodin, The Thinker Projects from Spring 2017: Kees Verkade, Tightrope Walker Henry Moore, Reclining Figure, 1969-70 Recent Comments Roberto Ferrari on Anna Hyatt Huntington and Equestrian Lincoln Linda Chamb on Anna Hyatt Huntington and Equestrian Lincoln The Story of Curl: A Clement Meadmore Sculpture – Australian Modern on Meadmore’s Curl…Conservation Begins Today Michael Thaddeus on New Public Outdoor Sculpture by Henry Moore…Coming Soon! Larry LaRose on William Ordway Partridge and the Van Amringe Memorial CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us