Skip to primary content Brown University Library News Services, People, and Events at the Brown Unviersity Library Search Main menu Home Ask a Librarian BruKnow Off-Campus Access Library Homepage Library Events Post navigation ← Previous Next → Exhibit | The Battle of New Orleans – The “Other” Battle of 1815 Posted on January 21, 2015 by Jennifer Braga Battle of New Orleans and death of Major General Packenham on the 8th of January 1815, West and Joseph Yeager, Hand colored engraving by Yeager after West January 8, 2015 is the bicentennial of the Battle of New Orleans. Fought between an American force of around 5,000 men under Andrew Jackson and 7,500 British troops commanded by Sir Edward Pakenham, the outcome forced the British to leave Louisiana, thus ending the War of 1812. Five months later, the British and their Prussian allies defeated Napoleon at Waterloo. As with any battle, much information has been lost and eyewitness accounts provide only a snapshot of the fighting. Consequently, myths and legends emerge and these often influence the iconography of the battle. In the ten images featured in this exhibit, the American artists propagandize the battle by depicting the Americans as mighty victors over a weaker British force. The hero of the day, Jackson, is given prominence throughout; however, the death of his counterpart, Pakenham, has not been overlooked, as is the case in the engraving featured here. Of particular note is the fact that few if any of the artists were present at the battle. Though not based on first person observation, these images exerted great influence over perception of the events in 1815. Dates: January 20 – March 31, 2015 Time: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday Location: Bopp Seminar Room, Second Floor, John Hay Library, 20 Prospect Street, Providence This entry was posted in Uncategorized by Jennifer Braga. Bookmark the permalink. BROWN UNIVERSITY | PROVIDENCE, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | WEBSITE FEEDBACK Proudly powered by WordPress