Skip to primary content Brown University Library News Services, People, and Events at the Brown Unviersity Library Search Main menu Home Ask a Librarian BruKnow Off-Campus Access Library Homepage Library Events Post navigation ← Previous Next → Announcing the Brasiliana Collection at Brown University Posted on October 12, 2012 by Amy Atticks PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — At 6pm, on October 24, 2012, Brown University will launch the Brasiliana Collection and feature the newly indexed Thomas E. Skidmore Papers, an anchor of the collection in the Reading Room of the John Hay Library. A display will be on view including highlights of the Brasiliana Collection, items from the Skidmore Papers, and the new companion website to Skidmore’s textbook Brazil: Five Centuries of Change (Oxford University Press). A reception will follow. The collection launch is co-organized by Brown University Library, Brown’s Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and the departments of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies at Brown. The event is free and open to the public. The Brasiliana Collection at Brown is an initiative conceived and directed by James Green, Professor of History and Brazilian Studies. The collection is intended to support the growing interest in Brazilian studies among students and faculty at Brown as well as scholars around the world. Special collection strengths include: Brazilian travelogues: travel accounts, 16th-19th century; early literary criticism on Machado de Assis; pamphlets from the Positivist Church of Brazil; books on Espiritismo; Literatura de cordel (Brazilian chapbooks); personal papers of scholars in the field, and the World Newspaper Archive Latin American Newspapers 1805-1922. The Circulating collection is especially strong in 19th-21stcentury novels and history: colonial, slavery, abolition, independence, and dictatorship period. In April 2006, Professor Thomas E. Skidmore donated his personal library and papers to Brown University Library. The monograph collection consists of approximately 6,000 items, mainly in English and Portuguese language, and reflects over thirty years of collecting 19th- and 20th-century materials on Brazil and other areas of Latin America. The collection contains numerous Brazilian rare and special books on subjects related to race, nationalism, politics, economics, and Brazilian history. The new website Brazil: Five Centuries of Change includes an inventory of the collection, and an archive, developed with Brown students over the last two years. The Brown University Library is home to more than 6.8 million print items, plus a multitude of electronic resources and expanding digital archives serving the teaching, research, and learning needs of Brown students and faculty, as well as scholars from around the country and the world. http://library.brown.edu/ Contact: Patricia Figueroa Curator, Iberian and Latin American Collections | [email protected] This entry was posted in Uncategorized by Amy Atticks. Bookmark the permalink. About Amy Atticks Communications and Stewardship Specialist, Brown University Library View all posts by Amy Atticks → BROWN UNIVERSITY | PROVIDENCE, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | WEBSITE FEEDBACK Proudly powered by WordPress