Stories All Stories Academics Athletics Awards and Achievements Campus Life Community Engagement Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Research and Innovation Spartan Spotlight For the Media About NewsCenter Select Page SJSU Shines in 2022 Times Higher Education and Money Magazine Rankings Awards and AchievementsTop | 2 min read Each year brings a new batch of college rankings — and each year San José State University consistently appears as a top university in the country. Over the past few weeks, SJSU placed in the top 40 of universities overall in the 2022 Times Higher Education (THE) 2022 Impact Rankings and ranked as 31st "Best College in America" by Money Magazine. Read Full Story Featured Stories Update from CSU Interim Chancellor Jolene Koester Featured, Leadership, Uncategorized Editor's Note: The following message was shared with the universities of the California State University for distribution on May 26, 2022. To the California State University... Harry Edwards’ “The Stage” Nominated for 2022 Sports Emmy for Outstanding Short Feature Awards and Achievements, Featured Harry Edwards, ’64 Social Science, ’16 Honorary Doctorate, chose SJSU as the backdrop for his upcoming Showtime film project as well as a short film, “The Stage,” that has been... Icelandic President Visits His Father’s Spartan Stomping Grounds Featured, Leadership Icelandic President Guðni Th. Jóhannesson toured San José State with SJSU Interim President Steve Perez and faculty from the Kinesiology Department, where his late father studied in the 1960s. SJSU Spring Graduates To Check “Complete Degree” Off Their Bucket Lists Awards and Achievements, Featured The academic journeys of thousands of SJSU students will come to an exuberant and joyful conclusion at the end of the month, as 12 in-person commencement ceremonies take place in the Provident Credit Union Event Center, May 25–27. Victory for Health Activism; SJSU Student Wins at CSU-Wide Research Competition Awards and Achievements, Featured Justise Wattree, ’23 Humanities, has always wanted to be a researcher, and his recent first-place finish at the 2022 California State University Research Competition solidified that on April 29–30. The competition showed him that his research has an impact. SJSU Cares Helps Lift Up Students in Need Campus Life, Featured SJSU Cares, the university’s program that provides basic needs resources and services to students, works closely with them to address their individual needs and circumstances — including emergency and transitional housing, food and financial assistance. Explore All Stories SJSU in the News SJSU athletes tackle mental health stigma with student-run Dam Worth It program KGO-TV Zero-waste grocery store in San Mateo provides greener option on Peninsula KPIX-TV Another round of hot weather brings more fire concerns across Bay Area KPIX-TV California on the brink of statewide water restrictions due to drought KPIX-TV What Oklahoma’s new extreme abortion restrictions mean for family planning in the state KCBS Radio Job market for new college grads looking rosy KPIX-TV More SJSU in the News → SJSU Newsletter Sign up for weekly emails to get the latest SJSU NewsCenter stories delivered to your inbox. Please, insert a valid email. Thank you, your email will be added to the mailing list once you click on the link in the confirmation email. Your Email Leave this field blank Spam protection has stopped this request. Please contact site owner for help. This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. From Washington Square: The Magazine Shaping the World, By Design The Exponential Impact of Expungement Fighting Fire with Fire Discover Washington Square: The Magazine → Spartan Spotlight Johnny Damm’s ‘Failure Biographies’ English Lecturer Johnny Damm’s latest book was named one of the best graphic novels of 2021. Wendy Rouse’s ‘Public Faces, Secret Lives’ Associate Professor of History Wendy Rouse has published her third book. Her research explores the impact of women and children in United States during the Progressive Era. The Metamorphosis of Recovery Kathy Córdova, ’85 Social Science, is the executive director of Recovery Café San José, a nonprofit healing center for those traumatized by addiction, homelessness and mental health challenges, and she sees the power of transformation every day. Stay Connected Follow Follow Follow Follow Tweets by SJSU View this profile on Instagram San Jose State University (@sjsu) • Instagram photos and videos Pages Stories About NewsCenter For the Media Categories Academics Athletics Awards and Achievements Campus Life Community Engagement Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Research and Innovation SJSU Sites SJSU.edu Accessibility Accreditation Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Washington Square: the Magazine