Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News The Long View About Us Under The Lens: Coney Island’s Baby Incubators Posted on October 9, 2018 (October 15, 2018) by Nancy Wolfe One of the absolute pleasures of working as a quality control technician in the Preservation and Digital Conversion Division’s Digital Imaging Lab is seeing the wide variety of fascinating materials that pass through the studio on a regular basis. Recently, the Imaging Lab was asked to digitize photographs from the Frederick Fried Coney Island Collection […] Read More… Posted in Digitization, PhotographyLeave a comment The Comfort of Old Books Posted on August 20, 2018 (November 5, 2018) by Freddy Claudio I work in the Binding & Shelf Preparation Department (part of PDCD) in the Columbia University Libraries system. The great thing about working in this department is seeing books come in for the very first time as well as some of the oldest books that continue to circulate regularly in our collection. I learned to […] Read More… Posted in Preservation3 Comments Recreating a lost Yiddish database: The LCAAJ Project Posted on February 7, 2018 (March 20, 2018) by Janet Gertz The Language and Culture Archive of Ashkenazic Jewry (LCAAJ) is an extraordinary resource for research in Yiddish studies. It consists of field interviews recorded between 1959 and 1972 with Yiddish-speaking informants conducted by Columbia University’s Department of Linguistics, who donated the Archive to Columbia University Libraries in 1995. The Archive presents an interesting preservation challenge, […] Read More… Posted in Audio Preservation, Digitization, PreservationLeave a comment A Short Look at the Long History of Conservation at Columbia Posted on July 17, 2017 (October 15, 2018) by Alexis Hagadorn In keeping with our “long view” of the Columbia University Libraries and their collections, we should consider the steadily evolving history of the Conservation Program at Columbia. The first professional conservator was hired at Columbia in the 1980’s, but we know that the University maintained a book bindery since 1912, when Columbia’s library was in […] Read More… Posted in Conservation1 Comment Surveying the Weng Wango Film Collection Posted on April 28, 2017 (June 5, 2017) by Jonah Volk Among the many moving image collections at Columbia University Libraries is the Weng Wango Collection, held by the C.V. Starr East Asian Library. This collection primarily contains elements of films produced by Weng Wango (1918- ), also known as Wan-go Weng, a Chinese art collector and past president of the Chinese Institute in America, who […] Read More… Posted in Film PreservationLeave a comment Is Your Google Book Incomplete? We May Be Able To Help. Posted on April 28, 2017 by Janet Gertz As many people know, Google has digitized hundreds of thousands of books from libraries around the world, including Columbia University Libraries, and they’ve created Google Books, a wonderful resource for readers and researchers. Subsequently Columbia and many other libraries have contributed their Google digital versions to HathiTrust to assure that the e-books are preserved into […] Read More… Posted in Digitization, Preservation2 Comments Hebrew and Judaica Manuscripts Project Posted on March 16, 2017 (March 21, 2017) by Emily Holmes Hebrew and Judaica Manuscripts Project Between 2014 – 2015 at the behest of Michelle Chesner, Norman E. Alexander Librarian for Jewish Studies, PDCD staff completed a project to make a number of previously photographed Hebrew and Judaica Manuscripts fully accessible to the world on the Internet Archive. Here is some background from Michelle: “Columbia’s Hebrew manuscript […] Read More… Posted in Digitization, PhotographyLeave a comment Hearing Voices from a Broken Disc Posted on January 9, 2017 (March 20, 2017) by Janet Gertz Hearing the voices of people who lived in another century brings them close to us, but early recording technology makes hearing them a challenge. In the first half of the 20th century a common recording method was to use discs with a lacquer surface. Sound waves caused a stylus to vibrate and cut grooves into […] Read More… Posted in Audio Preservation, DigitizationLeave a comment The Complexity of Color – Creating Digital Surrogates Posted on October 26, 2016 (March 20, 2017) by Dave Ortiz Researchers and students today have an increasing expectation of being able to find needed materials and information online. Libraries and other cultural heritage institutions have responded by focusing on digitization for both preservation and access to these cultural heritage materials. The Digital Imaging Lab, as part of the Preservation and Digital Conversion Division, is at […] Read More… Posted in Digitization, PhotographyLeave a comment A Brief History of the Preservation Reformatting Department Posted on October 17, 2016 (March 20, 2017) by Emily Holmes Columbia’s Preservation Reformatting Department (PRD) began as a reprographic services unit back in the 1930s. In the 1970s-1980s, the department gradually became a reprogaphy unit with an emphasis on the preservation of brittle and deteriorating materials. While the Preservation Division was taking shape, the world was just beginning to understand the slow moving disaster headed […] Read More… Posted in Digitization, PreservationLeave a comment 1 2 » Search Recent Posts Under The Lens: Coney Island’s Baby Incubators The Comfort of Old Books Recreating a lost Yiddish database: The LCAAJ Project A Short Look at the Long History of Conservation at Columbia Surveying the Weng Wango Film Collection Archives October 2018 August 2018 February 2018 July 2017 April 2017 March 2017 January 2017 October 2016 September 2016 Categories Audio Preservation Conservation Digitization Film Preservation Photography Preservation Uncategorized Category Specific RSS Audio Preservation (2) Conservation (1) Digitization (7) Film Preservation (1) Photography (3) Preservation (4) Uncategorized (1) CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us