Skip to primary content Brown University Library News Services, People, and Events at the Brown Unviersity Library Search Main menu Home Ask a Librarian BruKnow Off-Campus Access Library Homepage Library Events Post navigation ← Previous Next → Exhibit | Lincoln Covers and Stamps Posted on March 13, 2015 by Jennifer Braga An exhibit featuring Lincoln stamps and covers and First Day Covers is on display in the Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection Gallery at the John Hay Library. The exhibit will be available for viewing now through Wednesday, May 27, 2015. The Lincoln Covers In the world of philately, an envelope is referred to as a “cover.” This collection features covers that are adorned with patriotic art, all addressed to President Abraham Lincoln at the beginning of the American Civil War. Many patriotic covers, adorned with rousing images of the American union such as that shown above, were set aside and preserved by John Hay, Brown Class of 1859, who was one of two private secretaries who attended President Lincoln during this time. As each piece of mail sent in a patriotic cover arrived at the White House, Hay would open it and pass the contents on to President Lincoln, retaining the cover as a souvenir. In 1958, John Hay Whitney, a descendent of John Hay, donated these to the Brown University Library. Lincoln Stamps and First Day Covers Within a year after his death, the United States Post Office began issuing stamps honoring President Lincoln. Several of the earliest stamps issued by the USPO are on display as well as some First Day Covers, like those pictured below, featuring Lincoln. A First Day Cover is an envelope bearing a stamp which has been canceled on the day the stamp was issued. The Brown University Library is home to several stamp collections, including the Knight Collection, the Peltz and Morriss Collections of Special Delivery stamps, the George S. Champlin Memorial Stamp Collection of international issues, and the Robert T. Galkin Collection of First Day Covers. Click here for more information about Special Collections at Brown, including the stamp collections. Dates: March 12 – May 27, 2015 Time: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday Location: Anne S.K. Brown Military Gallery, Third Floor, Room 303, John Hay Library, 20 Prospect Street, Providence This entry was posted in Uncategorized by Jennifer Braga. Bookmark the permalink. BROWN UNIVERSITY | PROVIDENCE, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | WEBSITE FEEDBACK Proudly powered by WordPress