Skip to the content Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUContact SMU Residence Life & Student Housing Menu Search Menu Search We make campus home! Search for: Close search Close Menu Blog Home Virginia-Snider Commons Updates RLSH Website Categories Faculty-in-Residence News and Announcements Residence Life Residential Commons Dr. Stone as new Faculty-in-Residence for McElvaney Commons Post author By Beryl Hellinghausen Post date May 10, 2022 The below announcement was sent to the SMU community on May 10, 2022. Residence Life & Student Housing is excited to welcome Dr. Stone to the vibrant Residential Commons community! Dear Colleagues and Students, We are pleased to announce the appointment of Ashley Stone Ph.D., as the new Faculty-in-Residence (FiR) for McElvaney Commons, effective July […] Tags 2022, announcement, Ashley Stone, Dr. Stone, Faculty in Residence, FiR, McElvaney, residence life, Residential Commons Categories News and Announcements Recognition and Awards Research SMU Students Commemorate LGBTQ+ History and Community with Exhibit, Film, and Pride Visibility Day Post author By Leia Hannum Post date May 5, 2022 PRIDE Project Team. From left to right: Madison Savoy, Bradley Kucera, Hannah Louis, Hannah Hall, Beth Bass, Mel Kerber, Saman Alibhai, Maria Katsulos, Ahmed Ahmed, Bri Tollie, Leia Hannum, & Ash Thye. Photo: Ash Thye. A new student-led, interdisciplinary research project at SMU titled the PRIDE Project is using an exhibit and film to explore the history and stories of SMU LGBTQ+ students and their search for equality and recognition. Managed by a diverse group of LGBTQ+ students and allies, the PRIDE Project combines archival, oral, and institutional history to […] Categories Virginia-Snider Commons Updates Summer 2022 Construction Improvement Project for Virginia-Snider Commons Post author By Beryl Hellinghausen Post date April 28, 2022 SMU Residence Life and Student Housing (RLSH) is pleased to announce a Summer 2022 construction improvement project in Virginia-Snider Commons. The project will cost an estimated $3 million, include interior and exterior work, and will wrap up before the Fall 2022 semester begins. During Spring 2022, SMU became aware of moisture damage in the garden […] Categories Research Residence Life Residential Commons Laura Bell wins NASPA NOW Award for Inquiry Post author By Madi Tedrow Post date April 6, 2022 Graduate student and RLSH staff member Laura Bell recently received the 2022 NASPA NOW Award for Inquiry. NASPA (National Association of Student Personnel Administrators), a professional organization that focuses on supporting Student Affairs Administrators in Higher Education, and hosts a professional conference annually. Laura attended this year’s conference, March 19-23rd, in Baltimore, Maryland where she […] Tags Awards, NASPA, research, researchteam, staff, student life Categories Research Uncategorized RLSH research showcased at SMU Research and Innovation Week Post author By Madi Tedrow Post date March 31, 2022 Each spring, The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies hosts SMU Research and Innovation Week, a showcase and celebration of graduate and undergraduate student research at SMU, in collaboration with the Office of Engaged Learning. The goal of this event is to foster communication between students in different disciplines, give students the opportunity to present […] Tags academic initiatives, Awards, research, residence life, Residential Commons, RLSH Posts navigation ← Newer Posts1 2 … 11 Older Posts → Past Blog Posts Past Blog Posts Select Month May 2022 April 2022 March 2022 February 2022 November 2021 October 2021 September 2021 July 2021 June 2021 April 2021 March 2021 February 2021 January 2021 November 2020 October 2020 September 2020 August 2020 July 2020 June 2020 May 2020 April 2020 March 2020 February 2020 Blogpost Categories Blogpost Categories Select Category Alerts Apartments Engage Dallas Faculty-in-Residence Housing Operations Insights News and Announcements Recognition and Awards Research Residence Life Residential Commons Uncategorized Virginia-Snider Commons Updates Subscribe by Email Completely spam free, opt out any time. Please, insert a valid email. Thank you, your email will be added to the mailing list once you click on the link in the confirmation email. Your Email Leave this field blank Spam protection has stopped this request. Please contact site owner for help. This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Search Search for: Accessibility Options Toggle High Contrast Toggle Font size Apply NowVisit Us Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Subscribe Close Subscribe By Email Get a weekly email of all new posts. Your Email Leave this field blank This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.