Skip to primary content Brown University Library News Services, People, and Events at the Brown Unviersity Library Search Main menu Home Ask a Librarian BruKnow Off-Campus Access Library Homepage Library Events Post navigation ← Previous Next → Exhibit | Thousands of Little Colored Windows : Brown University’s Stamp Collections Posted on February 15, 2016 by Jennifer Braga Katanga, 1961 George S. Champlin Memorial Collection Thousands of Little Colored Windows : Brown University’s Stamp Collections is now on exhibit at the John Hay Library. This exhibition is curated by students in Professor Steven Lubar’s Museum Collecting and Collections class (Fall 2015). Over the course of the semester, the students delved into Brown University Library’s extensive stamp collections. Their research uncovers the breadth of the collections and highlights the numerous ways in which postage stamps and postal history hold relevance to social history, political and cultural studies. Thousands of Little Colored Windows : Brown University’s Stamp Collections approaches the stamp collections through varied lenses, revealing narratives of design, production, use, and collecting. The exhibition includes an interactive digital gallery of stamps from the George S. Champlin Memorial Stamp Collection. Click here to view the complementary online exhibit. The stamp collections housed at the John Hay Library range from comprehensive national and global catalogues to thematic albums. The personal collections of George S. Champlin, Webster Knight (class of 1876), and Robert Galkin (class of 1949) constitute the foundation of the Library’s philatelic holdings. In addition, the library maintains specialized collections of postal, historical, and design-related interests, such as special delivery stamps, first day covers, a set of patriotic envelopes addressed to Abraham Lincoln, and rare printing errors. Admission to the John Hay Library is free and open to the public. Thousands of Little Colored Windows : Brown University’s Stamp Collections will remain on view through May 13, 2016. For additional information and standard operating hours consult the Library website: http://library.brown.edu/hay/. Dates: February 10 – May 13, 2016 Time: John Hay Library Hours Location: Exhibition Gallery, John Hay Library, 20 Prospect Street, Providence This entry was posted in Uncategorized and tagged TAG, Touch Art Gallery by Jennifer Braga. Bookmark the permalink. BROWN UNIVERSITY | PROVIDENCE, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | WEBSITE FEEDBACK Proudly powered by WordPress