Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Admissions Home Instagram YouTube Twitter Facebook Home Virtual Visit Toggle the sub-menu Online Information Session Meet Our Students College & Schools Admissions Toggle the sub-menu Prospective Student Transfer Applicant Financial Aid Student Life Academics Ithaca Home Virtual Visit Toggle the sub-menu Online Information Session Meet Our Students College & Schools Admissions Toggle the sub-menu Prospective Student Transfer Applicant Financial Aid Student Life Academics Ithaca Subscribe by Email Please, insert a valid email. Thank you, your email will be added to the mailing list once you click on the link in the confirmation email. Your Email Leave this field blank Spam protection has stopped this request. Please contact site owner for help. This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Search for: Tags AAP Admissions Admitted Student Alumni athletics CALS classes college search Cornell COVID-19 day in the life dining diversity Dyson Early Decision engineering essay FAQs Financial Aid first-year first-year experience first-year students high school Human Ecology Humec ILR Ithaca JCB learning living majors parents people plan Regular Decision research SAT Student Blog student life student organizations summer tradition transfer weather what Cornell looks for Home What You Need to Know About Cornell Professors by ecw222 | May 26, 2022 | Academics, Admissions, Admitted Student, Applicant As students, you will be spending a lot of time with Cornell’s faculty. Over 1,600 strong on the Ithaca campus, Cornell’s faculty are integral to the Cornell community. Here are some of the traits that make our faculty so special: What You’ll Find at the LGBT Resource Center by ecw222 | May 16, 2022 | Admissions, Admitted Student, Applicant, Prospective Student The LGBT Resource Center is just one resource on campus for students to take advantage of, and it aims to provide advocacy, outreach, education, support, and community to LGBTQ+ students of all identities, backgrounds, and experiences. Cornellians Share Their Favorite On-Campus Meals by ecw222 | May 12, 2022 | Academics, Admissions, Applicant, Prospective Student Ithaca is foodies — on-campus or off-campus! Ithaca, NY, has more restaurants per capita than New York City, but students don’t have to wander far from campus for a delectable dining experience. Did you know that Cornell consistently ranks in the top ten for the Princeton Review of Great Campus Food? How To Take Advantage of Cornell’s Career Services by ecw222 | May 9, 2022 | Admissions Cornell University knows its students are very involved outside the classroom and wants to make sure you graduate with the skills to thrive beyond your undergraduate years. Whether you’re looking for internship opportunities or want to practice your interview skills, Cornell’s Career Services can help with both and everything in between. What Makes CALS Uniquely CALS? by ecw222 | May 4, 2022 | Academics, Admissions, Admitted Student, Prospective Student From the flexibility within your curriculum to the extracurricular offerings, there is something for everyone here at CALS. And while the variety of opportunities make each student’s time on campus different, there will always be some experiences that CALS students and alumni share. Cornellians Share Their Best Advice for First-year Students by ecw222 | May 2, 2022 | Academics, Admissions, Admitted Student, Applicant You did it! After a long high school career and a tiring application season, it’s time to get ready for your first year of college. Leaving home for brand new sights and experiences can be nerve-wracking, especially if you’ll be a long drive or plane ride away from home, but don’t worry — current Cornellians have been in your shoes! Our Hopes for the Next Cornellians by ecw222 | Apr 27, 2022 | Academics, Admissions, Admitted Student Gracelyn Goodridge and George Rocco DeLorenzo share their hopes for incoming Cornellians. What CHE Faculty Enjoy Most about Working with CHE Undergraduates by ecw222 | Apr 25, 2022 | Academics, Admissions, Admitted Student, Prospective Student We asked our College of Human Ecology faculty what they enjoy about working with College of Human Ecology undergraduate students through teaching, research, and advising. Here’s a sampling of what they shared. How to Make Your First Year Successful by ecw222 | Apr 22, 2022 | Academics, Access Counselors, Admissions The idea of starting college can be scary for many but also filled with excitement. Here are some tips to help you better prepare for the upcoming academic year and make it enjoyable! A Day in My Life as a Junior in Washington D.C. by ecw222 | Apr 20, 2022 | Academics, Admissions, Admitted Student Hello, my name is Peter! I am from Tucson, Arizona, and I am studying Science and Technology Studies with a minor in Public Policy in the College of Arts & Sciences. As a second-semester Junior, I have experienced six completely different semesters, each with six completely different day-to-day schedules and routines. « Older Entries Cornell University©2022University PrivacyWeb Accessibility Assistance Hosted by CampusPress Skip to toolbar Log In Search