Skip to primary content Brown University Library News Services, People, and Events at the Brown Unviersity Library Search Main menu Home Ask a Librarian BruKnow Off-Campus Access Library Homepage Library Events Post navigation ← Previous Next → Exhibit | Stamps of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) Posted on June 7, 2018 by [email protected] “The DPRK is an independent socialist state representing the interests of all the Korean people. The Republic is the Juche-oriented socialist state which embodies the idea and leadership of Comrade Kim Il Sung, the founder of the Republic and the father of socialist Korea. His idea and the achievements made under his leadership are the basic guarantee for the Republic’s prosperity. The socialist system of the Republic is a people-centred social system in which the masses of the working people are the masters of everything and everything in society serves them. In accordance with the nature of its socialist system, the Government of the Republic defends and protects the interests of workers, peasants and intellectuals and all other working people who have become masters of state and society, free from exploitation and oppression.” – Official webpage of the DPRK Learn about the people, artistry, doctrines and culture of the 72 year-old Democratic People’s Republic of Korea through postage stamps made for circulation. Examine selections from the Brown University Library stamp collections up close while expanding your understanding of what CNN recently described as “one of the most secretive societies still under nominally communist rule.” Stamps on view include: Order of the National Flag, 1950; Korean Paintings, 1974; Declaration of Human Rights, 1998 and Anti-Imperalism Posters, 2010. Dates: June 1 – 30, 2018 Time: John Hay Library Hours Location: Second Floor Landing, John Hay Library, 20 Prospect Street, Providence This entry was posted in Announcements, Announcements, Collections, Exhibits & Events, Exhibits & Events, Featured Resources, General Interest, Hay, Josiah Carberry, Special Collections, Spotlights, Uncategorized, Uncategorized by [email protected]. Bookmark the permalink. BROWN UNIVERSITY | PROVIDENCE, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | WEBSITE FEEDBACK Proudly powered by WordPress