Stories All Stories Academics Athletics Awards and Achievements Campus Life Community Engagement Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Research and Innovation Spartan Spotlight For the Media About NewsCenter Select Page SJSU Presidential Search by SJSU Editor | Apr 22, 2022 | Featured, Leadership The California State University Board of Trustees has launched a nationwide search for the next president of San José State University. Following CSU policy, the Chair of the CSU Trustees, Lillian Kimbell, appointed a Trustees Committee for the Selection of the President. The Advisory Committee is composed of representatives from the faculty, staff, students, and alumni, as well as a member of a campus advisory board, all of whom are selected by the campus’s constituency groups per their selection criteria. Also on the Advisory Committee is a vice president or academic dean from the campus, and a president of another CSU campus—both selected by the chancellor in consultation with the Board Chair. Both committees function as one unified group in the search process. On this page: Search Resources Questions and Nominations Stakeholder Survey Open Forum Search Committee Search Resources CSU presidential search policy [pdf] AGB Search firm About SJSU Learn more about SJSU (videos) Questions and Nominations To submit your questions or nominations, please email presidentsearch@calstate.edu. Stakeholder Survey Share your thoughts on SJSU’s next President. To provide input regarding professional qualifications, experiences, and personal attributes you think the next president of San José State must possess to be successful, please submit your comments via the survey. Thank you! Take the Survey Open Forum Wednesday, May 4 12:30 – 2:30 p.m. Student Union Ballrooms Members of the campus and surrounding communities participated in a hybrid open forum with the Trustees Committee for the Selection of the President in person and virtually via live stream. The purpose of the open forum was for the Committee to learn about the type of leader for which the SJSU campus and surrounding communities are looking. Viewers also gleaned insight on the process of the presidential search as a whole. This is the only presidential committee meeting that will be open to the public. SJSU Presidential Search Committee Member Name Constituency Group Jolene Koester CSU Interim Chancellor Lillian Kimbell CSU Chair, Board of Trustees Christopher Steinhauser CSU Trustee and Chair, Search Committee Anna Ortiz-Morfit CSU Trustee Yammilette Rodriguez CSU Trustee Romey Sabalius CSU Trustee Cathy A. Sandeen CSU East Bay, President Representative Sheryl H. Ehrman SJSU Don Beall Dean, Davidson College of Engineering, Administration Representative Alison L. McKee SJSU Chair, Academic Senate Stefan Frazier SJSU Faculty Representative Nidhi Mahendra SJSU Faculty Representative Angee Ortega McGhee SJSU Staff/MPP Representative Sharanya Kumar SJSU Student Representative Khoi-Nguyen Nguyen SJSU Student Representative Chrissy Chang SJSU Alumni Representative (President, SJSU Alumni Association Board) Edward A. Oates SJSU Tower Board Representative (Founding Director, Tower Foundation) Maya Esparza Community Representative (Councilmember, District 7) Angel Rios, Jr. Community Representative (Deputy City Manager, City of San Jose) Related Stories Update from CSU Interim Chancellor Jolene Koester SJSU athletes tackle mental health stigma with student-run Dam Worth It program Zero-waste grocery store in San Mateo provides greener option on Peninsula Another round of hot weather brings more fire concerns across Bay Area Share this post:Share this post: Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Reddit Email Pages Stories About NewsCenter For the Media Categories Academics Athletics Awards and Achievements Campus Life Community Engagement Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Research and Innovation SJSU Sites SJSU.edu Accessibility Accreditation Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Washington Square: the Magazine