Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News News from Columbia's Rare Book & Manuscript Library The Low Library in Shanghai Posted on 2022-03-09 (2022-03-11) by University Archives Did you know that there was another Low Library in Shanghai? That this library was similarly made possible by a gift from Seth Low (and his brother)? And that it was also closely connected to Columbia? From the St. John’s University campus map, Low Library in the center, left. United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia Records, Yale University Divinity School Library. In 1886, Francis Lister Hawks Pott joined St. John’s College, Shanghai, as a teacher in what was then a small school offering instruction in Chinese. Just a couple of years later, in 1888, Pott became president and began to make changes: St. John’s College grew into St. John’s University; instruction became bilingual and eventually switched to English as the primary language; the school registered its program in Washington, DC and thus became the first Chinese university to grant bachelor’s degrees. In support of all this growth, Pott had to engage in aggressive fundraising. In 1904, Pott announced a gift from the Honorable Mayor of New York City Seth Low and his brother William G. Low. With these seed funds, there would now be a Low Library in a new campus building, Yen Hall. The Low Library in Shanghai would eventually move to its own building, one built with funds collected during a celebration of the 25th anniversary of Dr. Pott’s presidency in 1915, and Low Library became “one of the best college libraries in China.” Pott served as president of St. John’s University, Shanghai from 1888 to 1941 (an even longer tenure than Butler’s 43 years at Columbia). How did Pott get Seth Low to support his school in Shanghai? Seth Low’s father, Abiel Abbot Low, made his fortune as an importer of silks and teas from Canton, China. In 1894, the sons donated a hospital in Wu-Chan in their father’s memory. An investment in a Chinese university, and in a library in particular, would seem to match Low’s interests. Pott was also a fellow Columbian, a member of the Columbia College Class of 1883. He often visited his alma mater and served as a speaker at Chapel in the Morningside campus. In securing Low’s contribution, Pott could presumably encourage others to follow the philanthropist Mayor’s example to support his school. As he once confessed, “I find it difficult to find people whose altruism reaches out to the Far East.”[1] Francis Lister Hawks Pott, CC 1883. Scan 5149. Historical Photograph Collection, University Archives. Pott (CC 1883) was also a personal friend of Nicholas Murray Butler (CC 1882). In the Nicholas Murray papers, there are a number of letters from and to Pott, including one in which he tells Butler: “It is pleasant to be remembered by my old preceptor who guided me through the intricacies of Kant’s Critique.”[2] While at St. John’s, Pott sent many students and graduates to Columbia, including diplomat and international judge V. K. Wellington Koo (CC 1908, PhD 1912, LLD 1917). Pott was a founding member, and later served as president, of the Columbia Alumni Club in China. In 1929, during Columbia’s 175th anniversary, he received an honorary degree in Sacred Theology. During the Japanese occupation in the 1930s (see Pott’s letter to Butler below**), some buildings at area universities were taken over and used as barracks. However, Low Library remained in operation and opened its doors to outside students, temporarily serving as “The Low Library of St. John’s University, being the joint reading-room of the East China Christian Colleges and Universities.” The library continued to serve students until 1952, when the Communist Party shut down St. John’s. Nowadays, some of the original St. John’s campus buildings are still in use as part of East China University of Politics and Law. ** In the Columbia University Libraries’ Facebook post, Herb Sloan pointed out that “Pott’s 1932 letter to Butler referred to the Japanese occupation of Shanghai, which didn’t take place until 1937. In fact, Potts was probably referring to the Japanese occupation of Manchuria.” His correction is most appreciated. Pott to Butler, May 6, 1932. Nicholas Murray Butler papers, Box 310, Rare Book and Manuscript Library. [1] Francis Lister Hawks Pott to Nicholas Murray Butler, February 3, 1916. Nicholas Murray Butler papers, Box 310, Rare Book and Manuscript Library. [2] Francis Lister Hawks Pott to Nicholas Murray Butler, December 20, 1911. Nicholas Murray Butler papers, Box 310, Rare Book and Manuscript Library. Posted in Columbia University ArchivesTagged Columbia University, Low Library, University Archives Post navigation News from RBML’s Archivists and Collections Managers | February 2022Researcher Profile | Rebecca Prime searches for animator Faith Hubley in a Black Power film Search RBML Links RBML Home Library Alerts Library Hours Categories Categories Select Category American History Collections (1) Bakhmeteff Archive (6) Carnegie Corporation of New York Collection (6) Columbia University Archives (147) Comics and Cartoons (16) Hebraica and Judaica (11) History of Mathematics & Science (2) Human Rights Collections (10) John Jay Papers (8) Latino Art & Activism (7) Literature Collections (3) manuscripts (22) Medieval & Renaissance Collections (12) News & Events (2) Oral History (41) Papyri and Ostraca (3) Performing Arts Collections (2) Printing History and Book Arts (38) Publishing (3) Russian & Eastern European Collections (13) Typography (5) Uncategorized (119) Subscribe for RBML updates Leave This Blank:Leave This Blank Too:Do Not Change This: Your email: CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us