Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Public Outdoor Sculpture at Columbia Constantin Meunier and Le Marteleur Posted on August 30, 2018 by Roberto Ferrari Among the public outdoor sculptures on campus that were recently cleaned, conserved, and rewaxed was the figure you see here, shining in the summer sunlight outside the Engineering building: Le Marteleur (The Hammerman or Hammersmith). This sculpture is by the Belgian artist Constantin Meunier (1831-1905), who became famous in his day for figures that idealized the image of the worker or laborer. The art critic Christian Brinton, soon after the artist’s death, described Meunier’s sculptures as having a “latent idealism [that] animates their every movement. They rejoice in labour well performed. . . . His art is in a sense the deification of work. . . . These men are not building for to-day alone. With each stroke they are strengthening the solidarity of the human race” (pp. 57-59). The photograph you see here by M. Duyk shows Meunier in his studio in Brussels surrounded by some of his models and plaster casts (Brinton p. 18). Meunier’s interest in immortalizing the laborer on a grand scale may have been influenced in part by the wave of social-democratic politics in Europe from the 1870s on, as well as renewed interest in the writings of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, specifically The Communist Manifesto. Certainly Meunier wasn’t the only sculptor to elevate the image of the worker at this time; comparable examples can be seen in Hamo Thornycroft’s The Mower (1888-90), and in the figure depicting Labor in Jules Dalou’s monumental Triumph of the Republic (1889-99). Although Meunier’s figure wears the clothing and holds the accessories of an industrial metalworker, he stands in classical contrapposto. The idealization of the worker’s body shows this figure is a modernist reinterpretation of the Neoclassical gods and heroes in marble that were popular earlier in the nineteenth century. Le Marteleur was first modeled around 1884. A plaster cast was exhibited at the Salon in Paris in 1886, for which Meunier won an honorable mention. Columbia’s repetition of the sculpture was posthumously cast in bronze by the Fonderie Verbeyst in Brussels. A gift from the Class of 1889 School of Mines, the statue was installed in 1914 outside what was then the new building for the School of Mines, as seen in this archival photograph from University Archives. That building today is Lewisohn Hall. The School of Mines evolved over time (eventually becoming the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science), and with the construction of the new building in the northeast corner of the Morningside campus, Le Marteleur eventually was moved along with it and has remained a beacon of the school’s illustrious history for more than a century. Work Cited: Christian Brinton, Constantin Meunier (Buffalo, NY: Albright Art Gallery; New York: Redfield Brothers, 1913), https://clio.columbia.edu/catalog/8489595. Posted in MorningsideTagged AP photos, Constantin Meunier, Le Marteleur, University Archives Post navigation Conservation Video Summer 2018 Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name Email Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Search Categories Baker Field Barnard College Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Maps Morningside Tags Alexander Hamilton Alma Mater Anna Hyatt Huntington AP photos Auguste Rodin Battle of Harlem Heights Bellerophon Taming Pegasus CBS photos Clement Meadmore Columbia Lion conservation Constantin Meunier CU photos Curl Daniel Chester French David Bakalar Equestrian Lincoln Frederick Roth George Grey Barnard Greg Wyatt Henry Moore J.H. Van Amringe Jacques Lipschitz James Edward Kelly Kees Verkade Le Marteleur Life Force maps notices Pan public photos Reclining Figure Scholars Lion Teaching projects Thinker Thomas Jefferson Three-Way Piece Tight Rope Walkers University Archives videos William Ordway Partridge Archives August 2018 July 2018 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 March 2016 December 2015 September 2015 April 2015 December 2014 November 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 Recent Posts Constantin Meunier and Le Marteleur Conservation Video Summer 2018 Conservation Summer 2018 Project from Spring 2017: Greg Wyatt, Scholars’ Lion Project from Spring 2017: Auguste Rodin, The Thinker Projects from Spring 2017: Kees Verkade, Tightrope Walker Henry Moore, Reclining Figure, 1969-70 Recent Comments Roberto Ferrari on Anna Hyatt Huntington and Equestrian Lincoln Linda Chamb on Anna Hyatt Huntington and Equestrian Lincoln The Story of Curl: A Clement Meadmore Sculpture – Australian Modern on Meadmore’s Curl…Conservation Begins Today Michael Thaddeus on New Public Outdoor Sculpture by Henry Moore…Coming Soon! Larry LaRose on William Ordway Partridge and the Van Amringe Memorial CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us