Skip to the content Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUContact SMU Alumni Menu Search Menu Search Search for: Close search Close Menu Home Directory Attend SMU Events SMU Volunteer Opportunities Give Benefits About Us History Maker Nomination Form The Black Alumni History Maker Award is presented to an alumnus or alumna of SMU who has demonstrated a record of distinguished service and extraordinary achievement in a particular discipline, organization, or cause that brings distinction to the University. Each year, individuals are chosen by the SMU Black Alumni Board Nominations Committee to receive this prominent award. • Any individual may nominate an alumna and/or alumnus for this award. • Nominations must be received by 5:00 P.M. CT on Tuesday, January 11, 2022 for consideration in 2022. • Once nominated, the individual’s name remains in nomination for a total of three consecutive years, including the initial year in which they were nominated. After that time, the individual may be nominated again. Black Alumni of SMU - History Maker Nomination Form Nominator * Self Other Nominator First Name * Nominator Last Name * Email * Nominator SMU Class Year(s) (if applicable): Nominee First Name * Nominee Last Name * Nominee Email * Nominee Phone Number * Nominee SMU Class Year(s) * Nominee College/Major (if known) Nominee Occupation * Resume Drop a file here or click to upload Choose File Maximum upload size: 52.22MB Record of extraordinary service and achievement to a particular organization or cause that has brought distinction to the University, either directly or indirectly (attach press clippings, etc. below) * Additional Factors for Consideration Examples of good character and citzenship (attach references below) * References Drop a file here or click to upload Choose File Maximum upload size: 52.22MB Commitment to the University * Any additional uploads Drop a file here or click to upload Choose File Maximum upload size: 52.22MB If you are human, leave this field blank. This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Submit Apply NowVisit Us Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275