Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Libraries Spotlight BLOG Columbia University Libraries Announces 2022 Outstanding Student Worker Award Winners Posted on May 25, 2022 (June 1, 2022) by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries is pleased to announce 16 recipients of the annual Outstanding Student Worker awards, nominated by Libraries staff from a workforce of nearly 200 students. Each year, the Libraries awards students who have demonstrated exceptional commitment to their work for the organization. Recipients of the 2022 awards are: Yanchen Liu from the Digital […] Read More… Posted in UncategorizedTagged News, Outstanding Student Worker awardsLeave a comment Ready to Browse in Butler Lounge Posted on May 10, 2022 (May 10, 2022) by Abbey Lovell Written by Teaching and Undergraduate Services Librarian Kaneisha Gaston. Butler Library recently transformed empty shelves in the Lounge (room 214) into a new browsing display, called Butler Browsing. Butler Library is home to the Libraries’ Milstein Undergraduate Library, which supports the University’s undergraduate courses, introductory-level guides to academic disciplines and popular interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary titles. […] Read More… Posted in Using the LibrariesTagged Butler Browsing, Butler Library, News Columbia Historian Mae Ngai Reflects on Winning the 2022 Bancroft Prize Posted on March 22, 2022 (March 22, 2022) by Allison The scholars Mae Ngai and Mia Bay have won this year’s Bancroft Prize award, one of the most prestigious in the field of American history. The Libraries proudly administers this Prize, an honor for historians and by historians. Ngai, author of The Chinese Question: The Gold Rushes and Global Politics, is Columbia’s Lung Family Professor […] Read More… Posted in Uncategorized2 Comments Free Open Access Publishing with Cambridge University Press Posted on February 25, 2022 by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries is pleased to announce that the NorthEast Research Libraries Consortium (NERL), of which Columbia is a core member, has signed a Read and Publish Agreement with Cambridge University Press (CUP) that will waive article processing charges (APCs) for open access articles that meet the following eligibility criteria: Have a corresponding author affiliated with Columbia University Be original research (eligible […] Read More… Posted in Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged academic journals, News, NorthEast Research Libraries Consortium, open access, publishing Exploring Black History in Archival Collections Posted on February 3, 2022 (February 18, 2022) by Abbey Lovell In celebration of Black History Month, we invite you to explore a few newly-available collections and recent acquisitions in our Rare Book & Manuscript Library (RBML) that showcase the deep contributions of Black historians, thought leaders, and important figures in our archives. The RBML holds the papers of writer Amiria Baraka and an audio-visual collection […] Read More… Posted in Featured E-ResourcesTagged Alexander Gumby, Amiri Baraka, Angela Davis, archives, Black Arts Movement, Black History Month, Darcus Howe, News, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, RBML, Sheila Michaels Civil Rights Organization Oral History Collection, Toni Morrison Access The Wall Street Journal through Columbia University Libraries Posted on January 28, 2022 by Abbey Lovell Columbia University students, faculty, and staff have full access to content from The Wall Street Journal (WSJ.com) through the Libraries. The Libraries’ campus-wide site license enables current Columbia faculty, staff, and students to activate an WSJ.com Pass, which provides access to content on the WSJ website on desktop, laptop, and mobile devices. Access is limited […] Read More… Posted in New E-Resources, Tools & TipsTagged E-resources, News, The Wall Street Journal, WSJ, WSJ.com Ongoing Workshops from Columbia University Libraries Posted on January 25, 2022 by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries offers regularly-occurring workshops on key resources throughout the semester. These sessions are typically held via Zoom and are open to anyone at Columbia. They are held weekly at various days and times to make them easy to fit into your schedule, and are all one hour or less. Popular workshops include: Getting […] Read More… Posted in Events and Exhibits, Research Tips, Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged CLIO, databases, Getting Your Bearings, Workshops, Zotero Columbia University Libraries Participates in a National Day of Racial Healing Posted on January 24, 2022 (January 24, 2022) by Abbey Lovell January 18 is recognized as the National Day of Racial Healing, part of a larger movement for Truth, Racial Healing, and Transformation (TRHT), which is a political and cultural framework developed by Dr. Gail Christopher and the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. TRHT is embraced by more than 300 organizations in the academic, artistic, civic, and faith […] Read More… Posted in Events and ExhibitsTagged Amiri Baraka, Bayard Rustin, Malcolm X, Mary Hamilton, National Day of Racial Healing, News, racial healing, Thurgood Marshall How to Use the FLI Partnership Lending Library for Low-Income or First-Generation Undergrads Posted on January 5, 2022 by Abbey Lovell Are you teaching a course in the Spring and want to make sure your course materials will be available for your undergraduate students? Partner with the Libraries and help us make course materials available to all students through course reserves, purchasing, and the FLI Partnership Lending Library. For more support, contact undergrad@library.columbia.edu. The Columbia FLI […] Read More… Posted in Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged Barnard FLI Partnership Library, Columbia FLI Partnership Library, course reserves, FLI Partnership Lending Library, News, undergraduate services Access The New York Times through Columbia University Libraries Posted on September 21, 2021 (January 5, 2022) by Abbey Lovell Columbia University faculty, staff, and students now have full access to content from The New York Times through the Libraries. The Libraries’ campus-wide site license enables current Columbia faculty, staff, and students to activate an NYTimes.com Pass, which provides access to content on the Times’ website on desktop, laptop, and mobile devices. Access is […] Read More… Posted in New E-Resources, Tools & TipsTagged E-resources, News, NYTimes.com, The New York Times 1 2 3 … 61 » Search Category RSS Feeds Ask a Librarian (2) CLIO Tips (13) Events and Exhibits (148) Featured E-Resources (15) Government Information (3) Hours (5) New E-Resources (36) News (1) Research Tips (7) Tools & Tips (75) Uncategorized (1) Using the Libraries (76) We Are Your Library (18) Workshops & Training (118) Blogroll Avery Library Blog Butler Library Blog CLIO Columbia Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Columbia University Libraries Facebook Columbia University Libraries News Columbia University Libraries Twitter Global Studies Blog Jewish Studies Blog Journalism Library Blog News & Notes from RBML The Long View Watson Business & Economics Library Blog CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us