Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Home People Research Toggle the sub-menu Journal articles by subject Journal articles by year Thesis list Outreach Toggle the sub-menu Plant selection CU-Structural Soil™ ‘Scoop and Dump’ soil remediation Transplanting Community Forestry Videos and webinars Other Cornell resources UHI News Urban Horticulture Institute Home People Research Toggle the sub-menu Journal articles by subject Journal articles by year Thesis list Outreach Toggle the sub-menu Plant selection CU-Structural Soil™ ‘Scoop and Dump’ soil remediation Transplanting Community Forestry Videos and webinars Other Cornell resources UHI News Elms in CUSoil on Ithaca, N.Y.’s State Street. View Ithaca’s Tree Urban Forestry Master Plan People – Faculty, staff, graduate students. Research – Journal articles, thesis. Outreach – Online resources, publications and videos: Plant selection CU-Structural Soil™ ‘Scoop and Dump’ soil remediation Transplanting Community forestry Choose the right tree, shrub or woody vine based on your site’s conditions. Reaping the benefits of city trees Nina Bassuk has dedicated her career helping trees thrive in tough urban landscapes. CALS News story. New: Urban Eden demonstration videos Developed for the Fall 2020 semester to help with distance learning efforts in the course Creating the Urban Eden: Woody Plant Selection, Design, and Landscape Establishment, these videos will aid your understanding of soil assessment methods for woody plant establishment: Penetrometer demonstration Bulk density sampling demonstration Percolation test demonstration Soil pH test demonstration Soil texture by feel demonstration Understanding soil porosity and water-holding capacity using sponges Container-grown plants Recent webinars Why do some trees transplant better than others? A look at some new research on water uptake – TREE Fund webinar, June 2021 More UHI videos and webinars. Featured resources: Recommended Urban Trees – Access through Woody Plants Database. Print on demand. CU-Structural Soil® – A Comprehensive Guide – 56 page publication covers the why’s and how’s of using CU-Structural Soil® to support trees, turf and porous pavement. The State of the Elms on the National Mall in Washington, D.C.: Tree and Soil Conditions – UHI study conducted at the request of the National Park Service to examine the current conditions of the historic trees and soils on the National Mall. View final report and recommendations in The State of the Elms on the National Mall in Washington, D.C.: Operations and Maintenance Guide. Routledge Handbook of Urban Forestry – Features two chapters by Nina Bassuk, Site assessment: the key to sustainable urban landscape establishment and Design options to integrate urban tree root zones and pavement support within a shared soil volume. Tree ID Guide for Common Urban Trees in New York State and the Northeast – Hard copy only. 76-page, fully illustrated guide helps people with little or no experience to identify common urban trees throughout the year. Trees are organized by common name and a simple visual glossary is included to point out important features. No online version. $18. (Order 10 or more and pay $16 each.) Order online. Enter total payment on the form and indicate number of copies in the Transaction Notes. Questions? Email nlb2@cornell.edu Other Cornell resources Cornell Guide for Planting & Maintaining Trees and Shrubs Pruning: An Illustrated Guide to Pruning Ornamental Trees and Shrubs Know Your Trees – Update of classic includes identification keys, descriptions of 50 common native trees. Also available in as 7.2 MB .pdf file. Take a hike: The Sustainable Landscapes Trail – Highlights the sustainable design and ecosystems services of green infrastructure across the Cornell campus. Features bioswales, CUSoil plantings, open spaces, natural areas, and more. ‘Urban Eden’ plant walks – Topical walks on campus for students in Creating the Urban Eden: Woody Plant Selection, Design, and Landscape Establishment (PLHRT/LA 4910/4920). Stewart Park Tree Tour– Use your mobile device to access information via QR codes for 22 trees in this City of Ithaca park on the south shore of Cayuga Lake. Search site Search for: Contact Nina Bassuk Professor and director Urban Horticulture Institute Horticulture Section School of Integrative Plant Science Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-4586 nlb2@cornell.edu Urban Horticulture Institute news New: Urban Eden demonstration videos New webinars: Preventing construction damage, remediating compacted soils UHI Produces Plan for a Sustainable National Mall Treescape Choose the right tree, shrub or woody vine based on your site’s conditions. The Urban Horticulture Institute’s mission is to improve quality of life by enhancing the functions of plants within urban ecosystems. Our program integrates plant stress physiology, horticultural science, plant ecology and soil science, and applies them to four broad areas: The selection, evaluation and propagation of superior plants with improved tolerance of biotic and abiotic stresses, and enhanced functional uses in the disturbed landscape. Developing improved technologies for assessing and ameliorating site limitations to improve plant growth and development. Developing improved transplant technologies to insure the successful establishment of plants in the urban environment. Working with municipalities to assess and manage their urban tree resources while applying appropriate technologies. Thanks to our supporters: TREE Fund J. Frank Schmidt Family Charitable Foundation Horticultural Research Institute Cornell University©2022University PrivacyWeb Accessibility Assistance Hosted by CampusPress Skip to toolbar Log In Search