Stories All Stories Academics Athletics Awards and Achievements Campus Life Community Engagement Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Research and Innovation Spartan Spotlight For the Media About NewsCenter Select Page Update from CSU Interim Chancellor Jolene Koester by Ken Mashinchi | May 27, 2022 | Featured, Leadership, Uncategorized Editor’s Note: The following message was shared with the universities of the California State University for distribution on May 26, 2022. To the California State University Community: Please allow me to introduce myself. My name is Jolene Koester, and it is my great honor to serve as the California State University’s interim chancellor for the next 12 to 15 months, as a search for the next regularly appointed chancellor is completed. This will truly be a labor of love for me. The CSU has been my professional home since 1983. I started my Cal State career at Sacramento State, where I stayed for 17 years, beginning as a faculty member and eventually serving as vice president of academic affairs and provost. From Sac State, I was honored to be appointed president of CSUN, serving an 11-year term beginning in 2000. Since retiring from CSUN, I have worked as a consultant, helping university presidents and leaders from universities across the country, including the CSU, to enhance student success and institutional effectiveness. I know firsthand that the work, attention and care you deliver every day reflect the CSU’s core values, the ideals that drew us all to this extraordinary institution – inclusive excellence, equity, access, compassion and transforming lives through the power of higher education. I understand that it is on our university campuses that our students’ lives are forever changed. And it will be one of my highest priorities – and greatest joys – to support and shine a light on your remarkable work. There is so much to be proud of. Thank you. But as recent events and revelations have made clear – sometimes painfully clear – change is necessary. We must do better. I assure you that CSU leadership will work diligently to restore trust across our universities and among the communities we serve. We will take a hard and clear-eyed look at our processes, policies and organizational structures to build a culture of inclusiveness, open communication and service. We will face our most critical operational and strategic challenges head-on, from funding and enrollment to closing equity gaps to restoring faith in the protections of Title IX. With your help, we will continue to persistently and powerfully advocate – with a united voice – for the resources we need to advance our academic mission and to fairly compensate our skilled and dedicated faculty and staff. And together we will protect and strengthen the reputation to which we all aspire – and the values at our core. I am grateful for the opportunity to join you in this work, and I look forward to all we will accomplish together. Sincerely, Jolene Koester Interim Chancellor Related Stories Harry Edwards’ “The Stage” Nominated for 2022 Sports Emmy for Outstanding Short Feature Icelandic President Visits His Father’s Spartan Stomping Grounds SJSU Spring Graduates To Check “Complete Degree” Off Their Bucket Lists Victory for Health Activism; SJSU Student Wins at CSU-Wide Research Competition Share this post:Share this post: Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Reddit Email Pages Stories About NewsCenter For the Media Categories Academics Athletics Awards and Achievements Campus Life Community Engagement Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Research and Innovation SJSU Sites SJSU.edu Accessibility Accreditation Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Washington Square: the Magazine