Skip to the content Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUContact SMU Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Menu Search Menu Search Search for: Close search Welcome News About Dedman College Find A Faculty Expert Close Menu Welcome News About Dedman College Find A Faculty Expert Welcome News About Dedman College Find A Faculty Expert Categories Anthropology Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman College Research Diversity and Inclusion Embrey Human Rights Events Psychology Sociology What first-generation North Texas students face: Grads share their stories Post author By Dedman College Post date May 27, 2022 Dallas Morning News Abena Marfo’s mother was always adamant about education. After moving to Texas from Ghana, her mom wasn’t able to pursue her own college degree as she juggled work in preschools with raising two girls by herself. She encouraged her daughters to earn theirs. In May, Marfo graduated from Southern Methodist University with […] Tags alumni, first-generation, graduate Categories Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman College Research Faculty News Religious Studies Congratulations to religious studies professor William Barnard on his new book, Liquid Light Post author By Dedman College Post date May 26, 2022 Dedman College News Liquid Light: Ayahuasca Spirituality and the Santo Daime Tradition, published by Columbia University Press, offers an in-depth immersion into the complex and fascinating world of the Santo Daime – a relatively new religion that emerged out of the Amazon rainforest region of Brazil in the middle of the twentieth century, and which […] Tags faculty research, religious studies Categories Dedman College Research Earth Sciences Faculty News Tonga volcano eruption was largest ever recorded in over a century, scientists say Post author By Dedman College Post date May 25, 2022 Yahoo News The Hunga Tonga volcano eruption on 15 January this year was the largest explosion ever recorded in the atmosphere in over a century, scientists have explained. The explosion of the volcano in the South Pacific was the biggest ever recorded by modern geophysical equipment, said a study published last week in the journal Science. The atmospheric pressure wave […] Tags earth science, faculty research, research Categories Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman College Research Faculty News History We need a global government of land, air and water Post author By Dedman College Post date May 23, 2022 Foreign Policy News Jo Guldi is a data scientist, historian, and Associate Professor at Southern Methodist University. Her newest book, “The Long Land War: The Global Struggle for Occupancy Rights, 1881-1974 (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2022),” became available April 19. Polls show that two-thirds of Americans believe that the government should do more to combat climate change. […] Tags faculty research, history Categories Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman College Research Earth Sciences Faculty News Tony Fiorillo interviewed for Apple TV+’s Prehistoric Planet Post author By Dedman College Post date May 18, 2022 Monstrous, magnificent, misunderstood. Dinosaurs are all three. Don’t miss Prehistoric Planet’s epic 5-night event on AppleTV+, starting May 23rd, to learn new facts about these creatures. SMU’s Tony Fiorillo was one of the experts interviewed. Watch the trailer here. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vnoNeMlNeD0 Tags earth sciences, faculty research Categories History Congratulations to SMU alumnus Aaron Sánchez Post author By Dedman College Post date May 18, 2022 Congratulations to SMU Ph.D. alumnus Aaron Sánchez! He will join the Texas Tech University History Department as an Assistant Professor in Fall 2022. Tags alumni, graduate, history Categories Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman College Research Graduate News History History Ph.D. candidate Christopher Walton Receives Fellowship Post author By Dedman College Post date May 18, 2022 Congratulations to History Ph.D. candidate Christopher Walton for receiving an American Congregational Association – Boston Athenaeum Fellowship. His hard work and dedication to his program really shows. Categories Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman College Research Earth Sciences Faculty News Massive Hunga Volcano Eruption Sets New Standard for Crowdsourcing Scientific Observation of Seismic Events Post author By Dedman College Post date May 17, 2022 Newswise The massive Jan. 15 eruption of the undersea Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha’apai volcano in the South Pacific Ocean was a once-in-a-century event that allowed an international group of 76 scientists using multiple forms of technology to crowdsource their data in ways never before possible. SMU geophysicist Stephen Arrowsmith, one of the co-authors of the eruption […] Tags earth science, faculty research Categories Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Graduate News History History Ph.D. Wins Maguire Public Service Fellowship Post author By Dedman College Post date May 13, 2022 Congratulations to History Ph.D. student Laura Narvaez for being awarded a 2022 Maguire Public Service Fellowship by the Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics & Public Responsibility. Tags award, fellowship, graduate news, history, phd Categories Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences English Marillyn Seeberger shattered glass ceilings in the Dallas advertising industry – but never received a degree until now Post author By Dedman College Post date May 11, 2022 At age 85, Marillyn Seeberger is graduating with a B.A. in film and media arts and minor in English from SMU with plans to write screenplays. When Marillyn Seeberger graduated in 1954 from Ardmore High School in Ardmore, Oklahoma, she had a dorm room reserved at the University of Oklahoma, where she intended to study journalism. […] Tags english, undergraduate Posts navigation ← Newer Posts1 2 … 268 Older Posts → Apply NowVisit Us Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275