Skip to primary content Brown University Library News Services, People, and Events at the Brown Unviersity Library Search Main menu Home Ask a Librarian BruKnow Off-Campus Access Library Homepage Library Events Post navigation ← Previous Next → Exhibit | Victory Won Pro-Life Bumper Stickers (1991–5) Posted on July 31, 2018 by [email protected] Explore bumper stickers from the Hall-Hoag Collection produced by Victory Won from 1991-5, in support of the anti-abortion/pro-life/right-to-life movement. The movement in general terms seeks to prevent legal abortion and recriminalize the procedure, which was legalized, based on a woman’s right to privacy, in the 1973 ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court in Roe v. Wade. The Gordon Hall and Grace Hoag Collection of Dissenting and Extremist Printed Propaganda The Hall-Hoag Collection exceeds 168,000 items emanating from over 5,000 organizations. It constitutes the country’s largest research collection of right- and left-wing U.S. extremist groups from 1950 to 1999. Largely comprising pamphlets and leaflets, with smaller numbers of photos, audiovisual items, manuscripts and monographs, the unrivaled collection contains printed organizational literature meant for circulation among adherents and items used to proselytize. Materials represent the broad categories of culture, education, environment, gender, international relations, government, labor, media, non-extremism, politics, publishing, race, religion, sexuality, social issues, students and violence/militarism. Dates: August 1 – 31, 2018 Time: John Hay Library Hours Location: Second Floor Landing, John Hay Library, 20 Prospect Street, Providence This entry was posted in Announcements, Collections, Exhibits & Events, Exhibits & Events, Featured Resources, General Interest, Hay, Josiah Carberry, New Resources & Services, Special Collections, Spotlights, Uncategorized, Uncategorized by [email protected]. Bookmark the permalink. BROWN UNIVERSITY | PROVIDENCE, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | WEBSITE FEEDBACK Proudly powered by WordPress