Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Education Student & Educator Programs Summer High School Opportunities Summer High School Opportunities Next Generation of Hudson River Educators is a six-week summer program specifically designed to more effectively connect historically underrepresented high school students and under-resourced communities to the Hudson River. Our high school students first take a deep dive into the Hudson River to develop a better understanding of the historic-to-present human connection to the estuary; the dynamism of its biology, physics, chemistry, geology, and topography; and the challenges the Hudson faces along with potential community solutions. Place-based field investigations build an appreciation for the estuary and environmental stewardship that participants can pass on to their communities. We also host speakers to talk about Hudson science; science communication; diversity, equity, inclusion, and justice (DEIJ) in science and environmental resource access; and community planning to embrace diversity. Students learn from the Hudson River through field work and data collection, and then work in teams to create their own communication tools designed to engage a diverse and multigenerational audience. In order to offer interesting and relevant information to their communities, students conduct interviews to learn directly from their friends, family, and neighbors about their perceptions and existing knowledge of the Hudson. Involving the community in place-based education is crucial because residents provide key information that is otherwise unknown to a visiting scientist or educator. Students then use this information to build communication tools that better connect all communities to their local waterways! A Voice of Unity is an extension of the program that looks to unite the voices of Rockland County by sharing the diverse stories, perspectives, and experiences that residents have had with the Hudson while building their knowledge. Students visit the five Rockland towns to learn from their communities about their diverse cultural relationships with the Hudson, then amplify these voices through filmed interviews integrated into a mini-film, annotated by the students, and showcased across the County. ELIGIBILITY: The Next Generation of Hudson River Educator Program is for historically underrepresented students in the sciences who are currently enrolled in high school. Student applicants must be at least 16 years old, and preferred current 10th, 11th, and 12th grade students. Honoraria are provided to high school participants. ✏️APPLY: The 2022 Next Generation of Hudson River Educators Program application is OPEN! If you have any questions, please reach out to Laurel Zaima, Education and Outreach Coordinator. 💡SEE WORK BY: Next Generation of Hudson River Educators 2021 Next Generation of Hudson River Educators 2020 Learn More Hudson River Field Station Next Generation Hudson River Educators Application High School Students Learn From and Educate Communities About Hudson River Ecos… A Summer Immersed in the Hudson: Next Generation of Hudson River Educators Environmental Justice Through the Eyes of The Next Generation of Hudson River E… Contact Margie Turrin, Director of Educational Field Programs Laurel Zaima, Education and Outreach Coordinator Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close