Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Libraries Spotlight BLOG Art Properties Complies with the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA) Posted on August 3, 2021 (August 18, 2021) by Abbey Lovell Written by Curator of Art Properties Roberto C. Ferrari. The Department of Art Properties recently partnered with colleagues in Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library to conduct comparative research and write brief documentation on Native American works of art in the Columbia University collection. This collaborative effort assisted Art Properties with creating a detailed inventory checklist that was then filed with the federal government to be in compliance with the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA). In 1990, Congress enacted NAGPRA to assist federally-recognized American Indian and Alaska Native tribes in repatriating human remains and cultural heritage objects that had been misappropriated by archaeologists and collectors and were now housed in museums, galleries, and educational institutions nationwide. While the Art Properties collection does not hold any human remains of indigenous Americans, the collection does include artworks and cultural heritage objects, some of which are ritualistic, made by American Indians and Alaska Natives from numerous tribal nations. This project was a significant step forward in the Libraries’ ongoing efforts to properly document and catalog important hidden collections and to begin the work needed to assist indigenous Americans in their efforts at reclaiming their own history and heritage. Unknown artist, Inupiaq/Inupiat, Alaska, ‘Wolf Dance: The Transformation of the Eagles into Wolves,’ 1890s, pencil, brown and red ink, and wash on paper, 6 3/16 x 9 3/8 in., The Bush Collection of Religion and Culture (C00.1483.302), https://clio.columbia.edu/catalog/12003657 Art Properties is responsible for the stewardship of Columbia’s art collection of over 13,000 art objects from around the globe, representing all time periods from antiquity to the present, brought together over 200 years almost exclusively through gifts and bequests from donors. As part of Columbia University Libraries, Art Properties supports the educational mission of the University, welcoming students, faculty, and outside researchers to utilize the collection for curricular study, educational programs, exhibitions, and publications. While the collection has strengths in American art, East Asian art, and archaeological artifacts, among the holdings are two distinct collections of about 500 objects made during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries by Native American artists. The first of these was organized in the 1920s and 1930s by Professor Wendell T. Bush (1866–1941), a Columbia philosophy professor interested in global religions and rituals. His collection was maintained by the Department of Religion until it was transferred to Art Properties around 1980. The second acquisition took place in 1997 when 63 Native American works of art, including ceramics and textiles, were approved by the Provost-appointed Committee on Art Properties as a gift from Columbia alum Stanley B. Stein and his wife Caroline. Preparation of the inventory checklist and preliminary consultation was begun by Art Properties in the past, but the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to work remotely created a unique opportunity where Avery Library staff could work online collaboratively to complete the first important part of the project. The submission of the inventory checklist to the NAGPRA office also led, with the assistance of Original and Special Materials Cataloging (OSMC) and Library Information Technology (LIT), to the release in CLIO and WorldCat of item-level records representing every Native American object in the collection. While the Libraries have made great strides at unhiding collections for use by individual researchers, this inventory checklist and cataloging project have now also provided institutional transparency for members of federally-recognized American Indian and Alaska Native tribes to discover what Columbia holds in the University’s Art Properties collection and to support their NAGPRA-related efforts. Unknown artist, Zia Pueblo, New Mexico, ‘Polychrome Pot with Yellow Birds and Double Red Lines,’ ca. 1920, clay with pigment, H. 10 x W. 12 x D. 12 in., Gift of Stanley B. and Caroline Stein (1997.08.049), https://clio.columbia.edu/catalog/13752845 The Libraries anticipate the next step to be direct consultation with specific tribal nations. While this will benefit indigenous Americans in their potential repatriation efforts, it will also offer the Libraries a collaborative opportunity in two specific ways: learning and applying more respectful approaches to collection stewardship of these objects; and reenvisioning ways of describing these objects with diversity and inclusiveness in mind, such as through the application of the CARE Principles for Indigenous Data Governance for records in CLIO and other online resources. Most importantly, the Libraries will participate, if required and in collaboration with other departments at Columbia, in the potential repatriation of sacred and/or ritualistic objects as defined by NAGPRA. As part of this consultation work, a curated selection of Native American objects will be displayed with culturally responsive information in a forthcoming multi-part Art Properties exhibition at the Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Gallery, Lenfest Center for the Arts, opening in December 2021. Posted in UncategorizedTagged Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, cultural heritage, NAGPRA, Native American, Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act, News Post navigation Pride Month Spotlight: Ebooks in LGBTQ StudiesStacks, circulation, ETAS, and more: What’s happening August 17 and beyond, and how we can help Search Category RSS Feeds Ask a Librarian (2) CLIO Tips (13) Events and Exhibits (148) Featured E-Resources (15) Government Information (3) Hours (5) New E-Resources (36) News (1) Research Tips (7) Tools & Tips (75) Uncategorized (1) Using the Libraries (76) We Are Your Library (18) Workshops & Training (118) Blogroll Avery Library Blog Butler Library Blog CLIO Columbia Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Columbia University Libraries Facebook Columbia University Libraries News Columbia University Libraries Twitter Global Studies Blog Jewish Studies Blog Journalism Library Blog News & Notes from RBML The Long View Watson Business & Economics Library Blog CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us