Skip to content University Libraries Blog Menu Branch Libraries Collections Events Event Calendar Reviews Technology So You Want to Learn About Investing April 20, 2022April 20, 2022 Benjamin Clanton Uncategorized New York Stock Exchange Written by Benjamin Clanton, Government Publications Most of us have heard terms associated with investing as a part of our daily lives (or just in passing). The stock market and Wall Street. The S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Growth versus value investing. Treasury bonds and real estate. Bull markets and bear markets. Commodities and futures. And one of the newer topics, Bitcoin and cryptocurrency. It can truly make your head spin. But what does it all mean? In 2021, many Americans, including myself, became more interested in this world during what is known as the “Gamestop Saga,” which shone a light on such players as retail investors, hedge funds, and a Reddit community known as Wall Street Bets. Though this event dealt largely with niche investing, it also led some, including myself, to begin educating themselves on how to invest for their financial future. Luckily, there are a ton of resources available to help you with this journey. The federal government itself makes a point of teaching its citizenry about investing as a part of a larger initiative known as financial literacy. Many of you probably already invest in some form through the workplace, either in a 401(k) or another type of retirement account. However, if you are interested in becoming a bit more proactive and hands-on, I have compiled some websites and books that may help. A quick reminder before you get started: Many types of investing, especially certain aspects of the stock market and basically all cryptocurrency, come with inherent risks that you need to be informed about; like so many things in life, education and taking it slow are important when investing on your own. And there are any number of investment styles that can cater to you as an individual. So, after all of that, if you still want to explore this surprisingly interesting world, or just want to read up on events and figures that have shaped the way markets operate, take some time to peruse these resources on offer through the Government Publications Department and the University Libraries. At minimum, it could help you better understand what the heck is actually going on when you watch movies like “Wall Street” or “The Big Short.” Enjoy! Trading Floor of the New York Stock Exchange Online Government Resources Investor.gov (from the Securities and Exchange Commission) U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Investor Education Resources from the Tennessee Department of Commerce & Insurance Consumer Financial Protection Bureau – Consumer Resources Mymoney.gov Virtual Currencies – Internal Revenue Service Government Documents Game Stopped? Who Wins and Loses when Short Sellers, Social Media, and Retail Investors Collide Who Wins on Wall Street? Gamestop, Robinhood, and the State of Retail Investing Wall Street and the Financial Crisis: The Role of the Investment Banks The Watchdogs Didn’t Bark: Enron and the Wall Street Analysts U.S. Equity Market Structure: A Review of the Evolution of Today’s Equity Market and How We Got Here Robots on Wall Street: The Impact of AI on Capital Markets and Jobs in the Financial Services Industry Exploring the Cryptocurrency and Blockchain Ecosystem Bitcoin, Blockchain, and the Energy Sector Beyond Bitcoin: Emerging Applications for Blockchain Technology For the Beginning Investor A Random Walk Down Wall Street – Burton Malkiel The Intelligent Investor – Benjamin Graham The Little Book That Beats the Market – Joel Greenblatt One Up on Wall Street – Peter Lynch The Mind of Wall Street – Leon Levy Broke Millennial Takes on Investing – Erin Lowry (Available on Overdrive through the Memphis Public Library) Wall Street Stories Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabisco – Bryan Burrough Black Edge: Inside Information, Dirty Money, and the Quest to Bring Down the Most Wanted Man on Wall Street – Sheelah Kolhatkar The Smartest Guys in the Room: The Amazing Rise and Scandalous Fall of Enron – Bethany McLean The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine – Michael Lewis Too Big to Fail: The Inside Story of How Wall Street and Washington Fought to Save the Financial System From Crisis . . . and Themselves – Andrew Ross Sorkin This Changes Everything: Occupy Wall Street and the 99% Movement – Edited by Sarah van Gelder Bull of Wall Street Market Movers and Shakers Steve Jobs – Walter Isaacson Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future – Ashlee Vance Fire in the Valley: The Making of the Personal Computer – Paul Freiberger Bad Blood: Secrets and Lies in a Silicon Valley Startup – John Carreyrou The Essays of Warren Buffett: Lessons for Corporate America – Warren E. Buffett Cryptocurrency, Blockchain, and the Future of Finance Digital Gold: Bitcoin and the Inside Story of the Misfits and Millionaires Trying to Reinvent Money – Nathaniel Popper Cryptocurrency Revolution: Finance in the Age of Bitcoin, Blockchains and Tokens – Rhian Lewis Blockchain Revolution: How the Technology Behind Bitcoin is Changing Money, Business, and the World – Dan Tapscott Leave a comment George Washington Carver February 28, 2022February 28, 2022 Benjamin Clanton Collections, Events, Government Publications George Washington Carver Written by Benjamin Clanton, Government Publications In recognition of Black History Month this year, Government Publications wants to bring attention to resources spotlighting the life and works of George Washington Carver. Carver, who was born into slavery in Missouri, is often studied by students due to his work with peanuts while at the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama during the early 20th century. For this very reason, he is often called the ‘Peanut Man,’ as he gained national fame for his research on a number of crops while meeting numerous influential political figures and testifying before Congress in 1921 concerning a peanut tariff; there, despite the specter of segregation, he wowed by displaying a variety of uses for peanut based products. However, it is a disservice to Carver’s legacy to only look at this one aspect of his life and career. Historian Mark Hersey argues that Carver should also be remembered for his efforts as an ecologist and conservationist, using his research and methods to encourage African American farmers to form a closer relationship with the land as a means of economic and social uplift. When one looks closer, it becomes clear that Carver ardently promoted the planting of crops such as peanuts and sweet potatoes to rotate away from cotton, which is a taxing crop to grow, and replenish the rich but depleted soil of his new Alabama home. Considered by many as both a man surrounded by mythology and an important historical figure in agricultural, environmental, and African American studies, Carver leaves behind an intriguing legacy that is worthy of further exploration. If you are so inclined to look more into his accomplishments, here are some resources available both online and through Government Publications and McWherter Library that can make that exploration a rich journey. Online Resources George Washington Carver National Monument – National Park Service George Washington Carver: For His Time and Ours – National Park Service More Than the Peanut Man – U.S. Department of Agriculture George Washington Carver Papers at Tuskegee Institute, 1864–1943 – National Archives George Washington Carver: More Than a Name – Library of Congress In Search of George Washington Carver’s True Legacy – Smithsonian Magazine George Washington Carver: History of an Educator, Innovator, Leader – Missouri Department of Agriculture Resources Through Government Publications and McWherter Library George Washington Carver Activity and Coloring Book Heritage Tourism at George Washington Carver National Monument: Perspectives of Five Demographic Groups – Nancy C. Holmes (with the National Park Service) Fourth Grade Curriculum: George Washington Carver National Monument – National Park Service George Washington Carver: In His Own Words – Ed. by Gary R. Kremer George Washington Carver: Teacher and Environmentalist – Christine Montgomery George Washington Carver: A Biography – Gary R. Kramer A Picture Book of George Washington Carver – Written by David A. Adler; Illustrated by Dan Brown Carver: A Life in Poems – Marilyn Nelson The Story of Alabama in Fourteen Foods (specifically Chapter 8, titled “Boiled Peanuts: George Washington Carver, the Wiregrass, and Macon County Farmers”) – Emily Blejwas Leave a comment Veterans Day 2021 November 11, 2021November 11, 2021 Benjamin Clanton Government Publications Written by Benjamin Clanton, Government Publications The Government Publications Department here at McWherter Library is proud to call attention to Veterans Day every year in order to honor all of those who have served in the branches of the United States military, including the brave soldiers that have given the ultimate sacrifice. This year, I wanted to bring attention to the journals and magazines published by these various branches that are on offer in our section. These publications offer both perspective on the role of the military in the history of this nation, as well its evolution in present day and as we move into the future. Here are a few examples of the newer journals that we receive on a regular basis. Army History and Marine Corps History As a former history major, I am interested in all manners of study into our nation’s past and development over the past two and half centuries. This includes examinations of how the U.S. military has shaped the story of our country. Army History, published by the U.S. Army Center of Military History, provides a wide variety of articles examining the history of the U.S. armed forces. Covering battles and advances in military history on a variety of conflicts, including the American Civil War and the myriad wars of the 20th century, this journal does an excellent job of providing the reader with in-depth historical analysis, beautiful photographs, and detailed maps of past battles involving the United States Army. Another great feature are book reviews of new studies pertinent to the U.S. military, covering subjects from the nation’s founding all the way up to modern day. A nice companion to Army History comes from another branch of the U.S. military in Marine Corps History. Published by the History Division of the Marine Corps University, this peer-reviewed journal offers a wide array of articles on the history of the United States Marine Corps. These offerings not only cover the combat aspect of the Marines, but also provide intimate portraits of individuals that have played a vital role in the evolution of this branch. Beyond these primary articles, the journal also contains review essays and shorter book reviews. But perhaps my favorite aspect of this journal are the covers. Each issue features a wonderful piece of artwork displaying the bravery of American Marines as they fulfill their duties. Military Review If you are looking for an examination of the modern role of the U.S. military and its potential future, look no further than Military Review, which describes itself as “the professional journal of the U.S. Army.” Like the other two journals, it shows in its bimonthly issues that the U.S. military is much more than just combat and warfare. Examples of articles that appear in this expertly produced journal include deep dives into the role of the U.S. military both today and moving forward in a more advanced and interconnected world; for example, a particularly interesting examination looks in to the ever-developing role of the Army into cyberwarfare, something that has only become an increasing threat in recent history. This displays the efforts of the American armed forces to stay on the cutting edge of emerging technological advancements. It also provides studies into the rapidly changing geopolitical climate that the U.S. military must navigate in the 21st century. These are but a few of the journals offered by the Government Publications Department. I would encourage anyone interested in military subjects, both historical and ongoing, to visit the current journals shelf by the Government Reading Room near the front of our section. Also, there are a number of periodicals from years past in the collection that are worth a look as well. We are always available to give interested patrons more information on these valuable resources. Finally, if you are in the library, drop by the wonderful Veterans Day display curated by Betsy Eckert, which features a variety of items that are on offer from the Government Publications Department. You can also access a number of related government and historical resources at our newly updated Honoring Veterans Libguide on the library’s website. I echo the sentiments of so many Americans in thanking those that have served in our nation’s armed forces throughout the years, both in peacetime and in war. It is a day to honor all of their sacrifices and to remember their service to this country. Leave a comment Constitution Day 2021 September 17, 2021September 17, 2021 Benjamin Clanton Exhibition, Government Publications Written by Benjamin Clanton, Government Publications Every year, the Government Publications Department at the University of Memphis likes to bring attention to Constitution Day to honor, as you may have guessed, the U.S. Constitution. We have all likely seen news stories debating whether a law or court ruling is ‘constitutional.’ And I am sure, like me, you have wondered: what exactly does that mean? Constitutionality can pertain to most hot button issues in our modern society, whether it be immigration reform or gun control or the power to wage war. Luckily, there are resources available through the federal government that interpret such situations in a way that is accessible to everyday citizens and not just those versed in constitutional law. One such resource is known as the ‘Constitution Annotated,’ curated by the Congressional Research Service of the Library of Congress and available online at Congress.gov. This invaluable and periodically updated document provides short essays examining new interpretations of the governmental powers outlined in the Constitution and its Amendments. As mentioned before, there is always debate about what our government can and cannot legislate, and how rights protected by the Constitution, such as free speech, are affected by things such as new technologies and controversial events. The Constitution is often considered a living document. Every year, the U.S. Supreme Court decides on cases that affect how our society will function based on this concept. Thankfully, the ‘Constitution Annotated’ provides understandable analysis through its essays on the ongoing evolution of how the Constitution shapes our lives. And, though tempting, I advise you to never skip the footnotes in these essays: they provide links to landmark court cases that, whether you realize it or not, determine how our country governs and how the Constitution protects the rights of American citizens. Other resources If you would like to view the print version of the ‘Constitution Annotated,’ also known as the ‘Constitution of the United States: Analysis and Interpretation,’ it is available in PDF format at Govinfo.gov. Before diving into the interpretive essays of the ‘Constitution Annotated,’ you may want to read the original source material, the U.S. Constitution, here at the National Archives website. There is a wonderful display celebrating Constitution Day, put together by our very own Betsy Eckert, in McWherter Library between the Rotunda and the Government Publications Department. And while you are there, grab a complimentary Pocket Constitution to refer to wherever you go! Leave a comment Celebrating National Nutrition Month with Government Publications March 31, 2021 Benjamin Clanton Government Publications Written by Benjamin Clanton, Government Publications Department Every March, numerous private and governmental health organizations from around the country promote what is known as National Nutrition Month. Individuals and businesses have become increasingly aware of what foods and drinks we put in our bodies. The past decade has seen the increased popularization of things such as organically raised meats, vegetables, and fruits (many grown locally in our own communities), along with stores and farmers markets where these items are widely accessible. Thankfully, a variety of online government resources on both the state and federal levels provide information and even recipes that reflect the want and need of Americans to educate themselves about their own health and nutrition. So, the next time you are looking for nutrition information or a new healthy recipe, for you or your loved ones, for any meal of the day (including snack time!), feel free to peruse these online recipes and other informational resources provided by the State of Tennessee and the Federal Government. Tennessee Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services – 50 Healthy Recipes: The My Health, My Choice, My Life Recipe Guide Working for a Healthier Tennessee – Recipes Tennessee Department of Human Services – Recipes for Healthy Kids: Cookbooks for Homes Tennessee Department of Health – Healthy Places, Food and Nutrition U.S. Department of Agriculture – MyPlate U.S. Food and Drug Administration – Food USDA’s Nutrition.gov – Recipes National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute – Aim for a Healthy Weight Medline Plus – Healthy Recipes Centers for Disease Control and Prevention – Healthy Recipes Also, the Government Publications Department here at McWherter Library provides these fun online cookbooks to students and staff to peruse for new meal ideas! USDA Recipes for Child Care Recipes and Tips for Healthy, Thrifty Meals One Pot Meals Cookbook: Nutrition and Food Services Healthy Teaching Kitchen Heart Healthy Cooking, African American Style Platillos Latinos, sabrosos y saludables = Delicious heart-healthy Latino recipes Deliciously Healthy Family Meals Keep the Beat: Heart Healthy Recipes from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Leave a comment Frederick Douglass: A Quick Look at an American Icon February 26, 2021 Benjamin Clanton Collections, Government Publications Written by Benjamin Clanton, Government Publications We in the Government Publications Department at the University of Memphis feel there are few more fitting subjects to explore during Black History Month than Frederick Douglass. Douglass escaped slavery in 1838 and became one of the most towering figures of his time and in all of American history. A tireless orator, abolitionist, and political commentator, he produced autobiographies, speeches, and other works outlining the evils of chattel slavery in the United States. Douglass believed that the nation needed to live up to the promises of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution and shake off the scourge of slavery if it were to reach its full potential and truly provide freedom for all its people. His document “A Lecture on Our National Capital,” first given in 1875, a decade after the end of the American Civil War, was reproduced by the Smithsonian and the National Park Service and is available for check out from our Government Publications department. In this address, Douglass’ observations of Washington, D.C, serve as a microcosm to the nation at large. He laments the affect slavery and its political influence had on the city in the past, but also contrasts it with the postwar progress made in everything from the attitude of its citizens to new building projects that made it a more livable place. Douglass acknowledges there was still much work to be done; in hindsight we know that it was only the beginning of the ongoing struggle to guarantee rights for African Americans in this country. However, Douglass conveyed a sense of optimism for the future in this lecture, stating his hope that “the best men and the best women from all sections of our widely extended country shall delight to meet and bury their differences.” If you are interested in further exploring Douglass and his place in American history, check out these government resources, along with some supplemental eBooks currently available through McWherter Library. Government Publications Frederick Douglass, The Clarion Voice by John Blassingame A Lecture on Our National Capital by Frederick Douglass (also available to read online through the Library of Congress) Frederick Douglass National Historic Site, Washington, D.C. Online Government Resources National Park Service – Frederick Douglass Historic Site and Online Exhibit Library of Congress – Frederick Douglass Papers and Online Exhibit National Archives – Frederick Douglass, 19th-Century Civil Rights Activist: His Legacy Today National Museum of African American History & Culture, Smithsonian Institution – Frederick Douglass McWherter Library eBooks Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass by Frederick Douglass Frederick Douglass: America’s Prophet by D.H. Dilbeck The Political Thought of Frederick Douglass: In Pursuit of American Liberty by Nicholas Buccola 1 Comment Veterans Day 2020 November 11, 2020November 13, 2020 Meghan Campbell Government Publications Picture via Pexels and Pixabay Each year, Americans take time to participate in a day of solemnity and respect for those who have committed their lives to the U.S. Armed Forces. Originally Armistice Day, the history of Veterans Day has been an interesting one. Armistice Day was created to honor and celebrate the end of World War I. The day was chosen specifically because the war ended “on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month”. While World War I doesn’t quite seem as far away as 100 years, the sentiment of remembrance has remained all too present in the modern day consciousness. Every year, veterans, families, friends, businesses, and government agencies celebrate Veterans Day. The holiday recognizes the historical and modern implications of what sacrifices are made to support and defend the country as a U.S. service member. The sacrifices that are made are many; and often include the events and memories that are celebrated and made in the absence of a service member as they carry out their duties away from home. Birthdays, holidays, months, and sometimes even years go by as a service member is called away on a deployment, or in the greatest capacity, has their life taken in the line of duty. So it’s important to take a moment, even if it’s once a year, to recognize and remember every person who has decided to become a member of the military and dedicate themselves to their country. To start, the University of Memphis has a wonderful Veteran and Military Student Services which is an invaluable resource for students and family members of military members. The U of M University Libraries also houses the Textbooks for Tiger Veterans Program which supports military affiliated students! Picture via Pexels and Pixabay Across the various government agencies, the Department of Veterans Affairs is one that has always been a pillar of support for veterans across the nation. They offer plenty of different resources for any problem or need. One of the ways the VA is able to support veterans is through psychological help for those who suffer from disorders such as PTSD. The Department of Veterans Affairs has many pathways that offer support that positively affect the life of a veteran, and can lead to recovery. From golf, to traditional therapy, to even equine therapy, there is a surprising amount of programs across the country that supports a veteran’s need to seek treatment and also find a therapy method that works for them. The U of M Libraries also has access to many government publications, including subcommittee reports from the U.S. House of Representatives discussing veteran access to mental health therapy. The DVA also has great videos highlighting the lives and contributions of veterans from wars past, such as Daniel Inouye; the late senator from Hawaii who served in World War II, who was also a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom. In addition to the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Smithsonian provides great learning resources for additional reading and research regarding Native American veterans from the past and present. The National Museum of the American Indian presents great exhibition style resource pages to learn about the Code Talkers of WWII and veterans from other wars like the Korean, Vietnam and modern-day wars. They also have a YouTube channel that presents recordings of their presentations, and other great veteran-adjacent videos. This Veterans Day is special for the museum as well, as they are dedicating the National Native American Veterans Memorial on the day itself, and virtually, for public attendance and appreciation. The National Archives has teamed up with Google Arts and Culture to bring the public virtual access to pieces of history that lead to the commissioning and the ultimate creation of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. Finally, but certainly not least, one of our nation’s most enduring memorials to those who have served is the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National Cemetery. This structure resides in Arlington National Cemetery and is in honor of service members who have passed and who were never able to be identified. It is always quietly guarded, and constantly honored in memory of those who have given their lives for their country. For more resources about Veterans Day and military-adjacent publications, check out Government Publications’ Veterans Day Libguide and the display in the elevator alcove outside of the entrance to Government Publications. To all those who have dedicated their lives to the United States Armed Forces, thank you! Leave a comment Halloween Read 2020: The Island of Dr. Moreau by H.G. Wells October 30, 2020 Benjamin Clanton Books, Collections Written by Benjamin Clanton, Government Publications As Halloween approaches each year, I enjoy changing my media intake up a bit, filling my days with weird and scary books, movies, and podcasts. I always enjoy things of this nature, but tend to binge during spooky season. This year, I added a long overdue read to my cultural docket: The Island of Dr. Moreau by H.G. Wells. The novel is narrated by its main character, Edward Prendick, who is rescued after a shipwreck by an enigmatic man of science named Montgomery. Prendick soon finds himself an unwanted guest on a small Pacific island run by the novel’s namesake, Dr. Moreau. After encounters with what appear to be human-like ‘Beasts,’ Prendick discovers the dark secret of the doctor and his island. Dr. Moreau has been experimenting on various types of animals by using a combination of surgery (which he terms ‘vivisection,’ a quite unpleasant term when looked up) and hypnosis, giving these creations (for lack of a better term) human traits. Dr. Moreau rules over the small society he has formed using a combination of physical violence and psychological manipulation in the form of ‘Laws,’ which outline how the ‘Beasts’ should act human and suppress their animal instincts. However, as one might guess, things eventually go terribly wrong, and Prendick finds himself in the middle of a vicious and long-simmering power struggle between Dr. Moreau, Montgomery, and the ‘Beasts’ that inhabit this twisted world. I am sure the sentiment has been said many times in various forms before, but I cannot help but think of a line said by Jeff Goldblum’s character in the film version of Jurassic Park: “Your scientists were so preoccupied with whether or not they could, they didn’t stop to think if they [SHOULD].” Much as in that tale, a scientist, in this case Dr. Moreau, decides to play God and create something that simply should not exist. In forming this society of ‘Beasts,’ he shows no concern for the immense physical, psychological, and emotional pain he causes his subjects. During the era in which this novel was written, there had been significant advances in medicine and surgery, with human science on the cusp of new discoveries that greatly benefit our society today. Dr. Moreau, however, uses science in a reckless manner, and causes mayhem in the process. Prendick is terrified of the ‘Beasts’ early in the novel, but eventually realizes that the remorseless Dr. Moreau is the true monster, the true source of terror in the world he finds himself trapped in. Wells was a wonderful author, and displayed an ability to reflect the anxieties and wrongdoings of his time in his fiction. The Island of Dr. Moreau is not as much scary in the traditional horror sense as it is disturbing due to its material; by the end, I felt a somber sadness as the suffering increases and the island collapses into pointless chaos. Though over a century old, I did not find the novel particularly dated, as it still serves as a cautionary tale concerning both what humanity can and should do, and how those ideas often end up clashing. This is also a wonderful opportunity to promote a couple of great features on the University of Memphis Libraries website. First, our Virtual Book Display provides monthly lists, shaped by relevant and timely themes, for the McWherter and Lambuth branches; for example, the one for October is titled Gothic Lit + Ghosts Galore. This fun, interactive resource is a great way to find both leisure and academic reads, so check back every month to see what we are featuring (and browse lists from previous months as well). Second, there are a variety of e-books in many subjects available through the library’s website. The Island of Dr. Moreau, along with a number of other older novels, are available in this format. So if you are ever curious, use the Classic Catalog feature on the front page of our website to search for a title. You never know, you may be able to access and enjoy it without ever leaving your home! 1 Comment A (Very) Short History of Voting Rights in the United States October 26, 2020 Benjamin Clanton Government Publications Written by Benjamin Clanton, Government Publications The expansion of voting rights has a long and tumultuous history in the United States, and while the journey is not over (and may never be), a number of crucial events have made voting a more inclusive right that many people cherish as one of the most important responsibilities held by American citizens. The original text of the U.S. Constitution largely left decisions concerning voting rights up to the individual states; thus, the right to vote was held almost exclusively by white male property holders in the early days of our nation. However, several Constitutional Amendments have expanded the electorate since the American Civil War. In the years immediately following the war, the Fourteenth Amendment extended the vote to all males above the age of 21 and further defined citizenship rights, and the Fifteenth Amendment seemingly outlawed the denial of voting rights based on race and “conditions of previous servitude,” laying out protections for former male slaves. In 1920, the Nineteenth Amendment extended the vote to women, a long overdue protection finally given after a decades long struggle. The 1960s witnessed a new era in the protection of voting rights, particularly for minorities in certain parts of the country. States in the American South, following Reconstruction in the late 19th century, long practiced efforts to disenfranchise African American voters through things such as a poll tax and literacy tests. In 1964, the Twenty-fourth Amendment outlawed the use of poll taxes, and the following year, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 laid out protections for minority voters, working to realize the promises made by the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments. The Voting Rights Act has been amended several times over the past half century, extending protections to other minorities in the United States, including language minorities and voters with disabilities. Another important step to bring more people into the political conversation took place in 1971 with the Twenty-sixth Amendment, which lowered the voting age to 18 nationwide. There are many other important moments and pieces of legislation that serve to protect voting rights in the United States, and I would encourage further research if you are interested in both the high and low points of this part of the nation’s history. The protection of voting rights in the United States continues to be a pertinent topic in our society, and will likely remain so well into the future. There are a number of questions that arise during every election cycle. Are there enough polling places to accommodate the population, particularly in urban areas? What exactly is the future of early voting and mail-in voting, both exacerbated by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic? What about the disenfranchisement of felons in many states, either while incarcerated or after release? Should a person have to show identification to vote? One would hope that voting, one of the most sacred rights held by American citizens, one that countless people have fought for during the history of this country, will continue to become easier, with more and more people encouraged to use this opportunity to have their voices heard. And this brings a reminder: please vote! It is such a privilege to be able to do so. It is important to keep up with what is happening on any given ballot. Many people only consider a Presidential election important. But there are so many elections that happen in conjunction with and in between it. Even in a year such as this one, there are other relevant things on the ballot one should be knowledgeable about. For example, as a Mississippian, I get the chance to vote on the following on November 3: President of the United States; members of the U.S. Congress; state Supreme Court justices; a new design for our state flag; and the possible legalization of medical marijuana. So, remember, being a voter is important, but being an informed voter is vital. If you are interested in more information on voting rights, here are some links to online government resources that you can check out! Department of Justice – History of Voting Rights Laws USA.gov – Voting and Election Laws Library of Congress – Voting Rights for Women U.S. House of Representatives – Electoral College Fast Facts U.S. House of Representatives – Constitutional Amendments and Major Civil Rights Acts of Congress (great info on Amendments and Acts that protect the voting rights of minorities) USA.gov – Presidential Election Process The White House – Information about every President National Archives – The Constitution: Amendments 11-27 National Archives – Congress and the Voting Rights Act of 1965 Leave a comment Celebrating Constitution Day and Citizenship Day 2020 September 17, 2020September 17, 2020 Benjamin Clanton Uncategorized Written by Benjamin Clanton, Government Publications Constitution Day is observed every year on September 17 to commemorate the signing of the United States Constitution in 1787, which outlined how our federal government would operate and serves as both a functional and symbolic document for this nation and its ideals. It is possible that many people in modern day take for granted that the United States would become what it is today. However, when studying the history of the Constitution and its eventual ratification, Americans of the time debated over what the United States should actually be. Luckily, there are some easily accessible government resources available online that allow us to study the arguments for our Constitution. Perhaps the finest example of this is what has come to be known as ‘The Federalist Papers,’ which you can read in its entirety at the Library of Congress’s website. Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay wrote a number of political treatises arguing the need for the Constitution and a more refined federal government to replace the existing Articles of Confederation (which you can view here). These writings provide a glimpse into the political and philosophical arguments and counterarguments of the day concerning the formation of the United States government. As we know, Hamilton and his allies won the day and the Constitution was ratified; the website of the Architect of the Capitol provides a glimpse into this momentous event with a detailed explanation of the painting ‘Signing of the Constitution.’ It is also important to remember that the U.S. Constitution is an ever functioning document and not simply a historical moment frozen in time. The website of the United States Congress provides us with what is known as the Constitution Annotated, where interpretations of the Constitution are displayed, particularly in a list of laws that have been deemed unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. If you are interested in further research concerning the U.S. Constitution and its history, McWherter Library has a number of resources in its collections that are worth a look. And please visit our Constitution Day LibGuide, which highlights a number of resources available physically and online concerning the Constitution and its meaning, along with its relationship to the Census and voting rights. Government Publications The American Solution: Origins of the U.S. Constitution – Library of Congress About America: The Constitution of the United States with Explanatory Notes – State Department The Citizen’s Almanac: Fundamental Documents, Symbols, and Anthems of the United States – U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Civics and Citizenship Toolkit : A Collection of Educational Resources for Immigrants – U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Celebrating the Bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution, 1987-1991 – Commission on the Bicentennial of the United States Constitution General Collection Ratification: The People Debate the Constitution, 1787-1788 by Pauline Maier Beyond Confederation: Origins of the Constitution and American Identity (E-book) The Debate on the Constitution: Federalist and Antifederalist Speeches, Articles, and Letters During the Struggle Over Ratification The Creation of the American Republic, 1776-1787 by Gordon S. Wood (E-book) Unruly Americans and the Creation of the Constitution by Woody Holton Constitution Day also doubles as Citizenship Day, to serve as a celebration of efforts by people from all over the world to become citizens. It highlights the beauty of our nation at its best, where people from countless backgrounds can gather and continue the ever-changing experiment that is the United States. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services provides a variety of resources that will help those interested in the road to citizenship. The Government Publications department also provides some valuable citizenship resources, such as online access to this Civics and Citizenship Toolkit. Another appropriate resource, being that it is both Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, are the translations of the U.S. Constitution into a variety of languages that we also provide. Some of the examples include: Spanish, French, German, Chinese, and Korean. Hopefully, the resources discussed in this post will help you gain a better understanding of why we commemorate these two vital aspects of the American story. Leave a comment Post navigation ← Older posts Recent Posts So You Want to Learn About Investing George Washington Carver Veterans Day 2021 Constitution Day 2021 Celebrating National Nutrition Month with Government Publications Archives Archives Select Month April 2022 February 2022 November 2021 September 2021 March 2021 February 2021 November 2020 October 2020 September 2020 August 2020 July 2020 June 2020 May 2020 April 2020 March 2020 February 2020 January 2020 December 2019 November 2019 October 2019 September 2019 August 2019 February 2019 January 2019 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 February 2016 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 Categories Categories Select Category Books Branch Libraries Collections Databases Events Exhibition Film Screening Finals Week Government Publications Librarians Movies NEDTalks Research and Instructional Services Reviews Special Collections Technology Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS blogs.memphis.edu Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Big Brother by WordPress.com. Instagram Facebook Twitter Subscribe Close Subscribe By Email Get every new post delivered right to your inbox. Your Email Leave this field blank This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search