Skip to primary content Brown University Library News Services, People, and Events at the Brown Unviersity Library Search Main menu Home Ask a Librarian BruKnow Off-Campus Access Library Homepage Library Events Post navigation ← Previous Next → Paul Campbell of Providence City Archives Presents “Treasures in the City’s Attic” Posted on December 1, 2011 by Amy Atticks PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] – On Saturday, December 10, Paul Campbell of the Providence City Archives will give a talk entitled “Treasures in the City’s Attic: Recent Discoveries at the Providence City Archives” in the Lownes Room of the John Hay Library from 12-1:30pm, along with a viewing of the Roger Williams exhibit, “The Art of Roger Williams: Providence at 375.” Campbell will focus on the recent discoveries at the City Archives and the 1648 charter. This event is free and open to the public. Campbell has been a Providence City Archivist since July 2010, and previously served as Director of the RI Historical Society Library for eight years. He is the author and co-author of eight books on Rhode Island. The Art of Roger Williams: Providence at 375 exhibit runs through December 30, 2011 in the Gammell Gallery, John Hay Library, and features three hundred years of Williamsonia from the Hay’s Special Collections, the personal collections of Al Klyberg, and other local collections. Among the objects on display are a rare and significant Eliot Bible, a Bible translated into the Natick dialect of the region’s Algonquin tribes to aid in the propagation of the scriptures. This particular Bible is likewise believed to have belonged to Roger Williams, and is inscribed with shorthand attributed to him. The Art of Roger Williams: Providence at 375 is funded by the Rhode Island Council for the Humanities. Contact: Jennifer Braga | 401-863-6913 ### This entry was posted in Uncategorized by Amy Atticks. Bookmark the permalink. About Amy Atticks Communications and Stewardship Specialist, Brown University Library View all posts by Amy Atticks → BROWN UNIVERSITY | PROVIDENCE, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | WEBSITE FEEDBACK Proudly powered by WordPress