Skip to content Search for: Opinions Opinion articles written by members of the SMU Community Search smu.edu Search smu.edu Primary Menu Time to pass and celebrate the US-Mexico-Canada trade deal The secret to Texas growth isn’t what you think Posted on May 27, 2022Updated: May 27, 2022 Sept. 19, Pia Orrenius, Senior Fellow at SMU’s Texas-Mexico Center (and co-author Madeline Zavodny) for a piece explaining how the Texas economy maintains business growth and labor sources, especially from Mexico. Published in the Dallas Morning News under the heading The secret to Texas growth isn’t what you think: https://bit.ly/3CowPNy The Texas economy consistently grows faster than the nation’s. Since emerging from the 1980s oil bust, the state outpaces national growth rates. Sure, experts may point to a large and diverse economy and booms in fracking and exports, but those factors only begin to explain the success. The secret to Texas’ growth lies in its ability to generate as well as attract businesses, and to draw and retain the workforce needed to power them. Such business dynamism and worker magnetism add up to what some call the Texas Miracle. In a recent study published by the SMU Texas-Mexico Center we look at this question using Census Bureau data on households and business dynamism spanning 2006-18. . Continue reading “The secret to Texas growth isn’t what you think” Categories: op-edTags: Federal Reserve Bank Dallas, population migration, SMU Texas-Mexico, Texas economy Afghanistan: What Biden’s critics get wrong, and the debt owed Afghan refugees Posted on May 27, 2022Updated: May 27, 2022 August 26, Stefano Recchia, the John G. Tower distinguished chair in international politics and national security at SMU Dallas, for a piece challenging critics of President Joe Biden and his decision to pull out of Afghanistan. Published in The Hill under the heading Afghanistan: What Biden’s critics get wrong, and the debt owed Afghan refugees: https://bit.ly/3jgNlZw The Biden administration could certainly have better planned the extraction of civilians from Afghanistan. Yet media and politicians portray the fall of Afghanistan as a broader strategic debacle for U.S. foreign policy and President Joe Biden. They say America’s abandonment of the elected government in Kabul undermines U.S. efforts to support democracy elsewhere; harms U.S. alliance commitments; will be a boon for terrorists, and is likely to result in massive human rights violations. These criticisms exaggerate the fallout. Responsibility for the current mess does not lie primarily with those who decided to face the reality of an unwinnable war and call it quits. Instead, it rests mainly with those who expanded what had begun as a limited mission to hunt down suspected terrorists linked to al Qaeda into “nation-building” in Afghanistan — President George W. Bush and his administration. Continue reading “Afghanistan: What Biden’s critics get wrong, and the debt owed Afghan refugees” Categories: op-edTags: Afghanistan retreat, Biden, terror Andrea Laurent-Simpson: ‘Dog Mom’ and more – we’re living in multispecies families now. Here’s what it means Posted on May 26, 2022Updated: May 26, 2022 July 31, Andrea Laurent-Simpson, a sociologist who researches family/human-animal interactions and emerging infectious diseases at SMU Dallas, for a piece that identifies our pet/people “multispecies” families and advocates how employers, businesses and society can best accommodate this new unit. Published in FoxNews Digital under the heading Andrea Laurent-Simpson: ‘Dog Mom’ and more – we’re living in multispecies families now. Here’s what it means: https://fxn.ws/2TKg5zJ The evidence of new families blended with people and pets arrived long before we considered what to call them. “Multispecies families” captures the scientific essence, but the lifestyle and character of this four-legged/two-legged companion coalescence is far-reaching and even comes with a glossary: Dog Mom; Puppy Child; Baby Doll; GrandCat; Daddy’s Girl. And on and on. Continue reading “Andrea Laurent-Simpson: ‘Dog Mom’ and more – we’re living in multispecies families now. Here’s what it means” Categories: op-edTags: Dog Mom, multi-species family, pets, pets as family The way Texas teaches math just doesn’t add up Posted on May 26, 2022Updated: May 26, 2022 July 20, Candace Walkington, an associate professor and Gerald J. Ford Research Fellow in the Simmons School of Education and Human Development at SMU Dallas, for a piece advocating that math curriculum be more compelling and relevant to modern day applications and career needs. Published in the Austin American-Statesman under the heading The way Texas teaches math just doesn’t add up: https://bit.ly/3xWSn27 Recent headlines highlight the “deep learning loss” in Texas schools over the past school year, particularly in mathematics. Reports link this situation to students who attended school virtually all year – due to the pandemic – as those who “lost” the most. STAAR math results show many students in 5th and 8th grades are not meeting standards. Why is engaging in virtual learning associated with a drop in math scores? There are a lot of complex issues surrounding why students score as they do on standardized tests, but the recent comparisons are useful for highlighting the incredibly problematic way in which math is taught in our schools in Texas. Mathematics is typically taught in middle and high school as an endless series of demonstration and practice. Students are tasked with watching the teacher and copying what they do, often performing rote procedures that they do not understand. They are taught to sit quietly and follow instructions, as they solve sets of boring, decontextualized problems. Math is not taught in a compelling way, and students are expected to simply accept this. Continue reading “The way Texas teaches math just doesn’t add up” Categories: op-edTags: learning loss, math education, pandemic States like Texas that value economic freedom attract a stampede of newcomers Posted on May 19, 2022Updated: May 19, 2022 July 16, Dean Stansel, research associate professor at the Bridwell Institute for Economic Freedom at SMU Dallas and the primary author of the Fraser Institute’s annual Economic Freedom of North America report, for a column noting the out-migration losses of heavily taxed states and the in-migration gains of states such as Texas and Florida. Published in the Dallas Morning News under the heading States like Texas that value economic freedom attract a stampede of newcomers: https://bit.ly/36DQbAy For years now, people and businesses have been pouring over the borders of heavily-taxed California and New York, headed for more freedom-friendly states such as Texas and Florida. The exodus has been so great that when 2020 census numbers were released, both California and New York had lost enough population to cost them a seat in Congress. In contrast, Texas gained two seats, and Florida gained one. The pandemic slowed the typical summer moving season in 2020, but according to North American Moving Services, California and New York continued to be among the states with the biggest out-migration of residents last year, while Texas and Florida were among those with the biggest in-migration. Continue reading “States like Texas that value economic freedom attract a stampede of newcomers” Categories: op-edTags: in-migration, out-migration, Texas Texas’ social media censorship bill pushes unconstitutional limits on free speech Posted on May 19, 2022Updated: May 19, 2022 July 11, Tom Leatherbury, director of the First Amendment Clinic at the SMU Dallas Dedman School of Law, for a piece decrying unconstitutional legislation in Texas and other states that attempts to regulate social media platforms, which are private companies. Published in the Dallas Morning News under the heading Texas’ social media censorship bill pushes unconstitutional limits on free speech: https://bit.ly/3hAqHdE Amid ongoing allegations that social media platforms are censoring conservatives, regulating Big Tech has become one of the hottest issues across the country. In Texas, Gov. Greg Abbott has called a special legislative session in part to debate and pass content moderation legislation. The legislation contemplated would be similar to Senate Bill 12, which died at the last minute during the recent legislative session. As proposed, it would prohibit social media companies from blocking users based on their viewpoints or their locations within Texas and impose attorneys’ fees on those companies that do. Unfortunately, this proposed legislation does more to harm free expression in Texas than it does to protect it. Continue reading “Texas’ social media censorship bill pushes unconstitutional limits on free speech” Categories: op-edTags: free speech, Texas Senate Bill 12 A major museum acquisition makes SMU a global center of Methodist history Posted on May 19, 2022Updated: May 19, 2022 July 11, Anthony Elia, director of the Bridwell Library at SMU Dallas, for his commentary on the origins and future of the Methodist Museum historical artifacts now arriving at the Bridwell Library for installation over the coming months. Published in the Dallas Morning News with the heading: https://bit.ly/3hWDVjS “Junaluska’s contributions to our cultural life will be as flexible and adaptable as the Christian spirit.” In January 1950, Mason Crum, a professor of religion at Duke University, penned these final words to the preface of his book The Story of Lake Junaluska. The curious simplicity and beauty of the resort town in the western Carolina Smoky Mountains easily captivates the wayfarer, passerby, or motoring tourist. Crum’s account is almost a hagiography of a town and region, something generally bestowed upon saints. But Junaluska was something clearly quite different. As Crum also noted, “For after all, Junaluska is an idea — not merely a place or an institution.” Continue reading “A major museum acquisition makes SMU a global center of Methodist history” Categories: op-edTags: John Wesley, Methodist, religious artifacts Reflecting on the 80th Anniversary of the Nazi Invasion of Russia Posted on May 19, 2022Updated: May 19, 2022 July 11, Rick Halperin, director of the SMU Dallas Human Rights Program, for a piece about the Nazi invasion of Russian in 1941 and the longstanding impacts on Germany and modern Russia. Published in History News Network with the heading Reflecting on the 80th Anniversary of the Nazi Invasion of Russia: https://bit.ly/3yL4Gi7 Eighty years ago last month Adolf Hitler unleashed almost 3 million soldiers along a 1,500-mile front, with the intent to utterly and militarily destroy the Soviet Union. It was the largest assembled army the world had ever seen. The havoc, destruction, and wholesale slaughter of human beings that ensued in the months and years to come would change the paradigm of World War II and alter world history. Among the death tolls were 2 million Jews and millions of Russian civilians who were murdered. Thousands of towns and villages were destroyed and wiped off the map, art and livestock were plundered and the human psyche scarred forever. Continue reading “Reflecting on the 80th Anniversary of the Nazi Invasion of Russia” Categories: op-edTags: holocaust, Nazi offensive, World War II Carbon taxes better than assigning artificial political risk Posted on May 19, 2022Updated: May 19, 2022 June 25, Michael Davis, economics professor at SMU Dallas Cox School of Business, for a piece recommending that green energy advocates would be better served by pursuing carbon tax policy than by calling for higher oil prices to combat fossil fuels. Published in the Orange County Register with the headline: Carbon taxes better than assigning artificial political risk: https://bit.ly/3B4nP0u “Some investors are wagering that Wall Street’s preference for green energy will depress spending on oil extraction, setting the stage for supply shortages and higher fuel prices.” Wall Street Journal, June 14, 2021Wait, what? Oil prices are shooting up and likely to stay up, but “Wall Street’s preference for green energy” will depress spending on oil extraction? Big if true. And also more than a little weird. Investors tend to be a self-interested group. If there’s money to be made, they will try to make it. There’s a reason the fictional Gordon “Greed is good” Gekko owned an investment fund and not a chain of Burger Kings. If in normal times the price of a key commodity like oil went up, the Wolves of Wallstreet would be happy to supply the industry with loads of cash. Continue reading “Carbon taxes better than assigning artificial political risk” Categories: op-edTags: carbon tax, Wall Street 50 Years Later, the Pentagon Papers Remain an Historic Landmark for Freedom of the Press Posted on May 19, 2022Updated: May 19, 2022 June 20, Jared Schroeder, associate professor of Journalism specializing in Free Press/Free Speech at SMU Dallas, for a piece analyzing the free press implications of the Pentagon Papers as we recall the 50th Anniversary of the event. Published in History News Network with the headline “50 Years Later, the Pentagon Papers Remain an Historic Landmark for Freedom of the Press”: https://bit.ly/35J3j6W Democracy has seemed paper thin lately. Politicians and pundits increasingly forget, ignore and distort First Amendment principles in hopes of scoring points with constituents. This week, we celebrate the 50th anniversary of a key part of freedom of the press which, like our democratic principles, survives as a hardened protection for publishers and remains unmoved by the unrelenting attacks our First Amendment freedoms face. On June 30, 1971, the Supreme Court announced its decision in New York Times v. United States, also called the Pentagon Papers case. In its terse, one-page opinion, the Court concluded the government cannot censor or restrain the press. The First Amendment does not allow it. Continue reading “50 Years Later, the Pentagon Papers Remain an Historic Landmark for Freedom of the Press” Categories: op-edTags: Freedom of the press, Pentagon Papers Posts navigation Older posts Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube