Apply Give Virtual Tour Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Home Topics Culture, Society & Family Earth & Climate Economics & Statistics Energy & Matter Events Fossils & Ruins Health & Medicine Learning & Education Mind & Brain Plants & Animals Researcher News Student Research Technology Student Research Videos & Slideshows SMU In The News Archives Subscribe About Us Faculty Research Graduate Student Research SMU Digital Library SMU Experts SMU Adventures Software developed by SMU stops ransomware attacks Software developed by SMU stops ransomware attacks Ransomware attacks have become more common since COVID-19 pandemic DALLAS (SMU) – Engineers from SMU’s Darwin Deason Institute for Cybersecurity have developed software that detects ransomware attacks before attackers can inflict catastrophic damage. Ransomware — a type of malware infection that causes important data files to be locked and prevents users from accessing their important data until the hacker is paid — is crippling cities and businesses all over the world, and the number of ransomware attacks have increased since the start of the coronavirus pandemic. Attackers are also threatening to publicly release sensitive data if ransom isn’t paid. The FBI estimates that ransomware victims have paid hackers more than $140 million in the last six-and-a-half years. Unlike existing methods, such as antivirus software or other intrusion detection systems, SMU’s new software works even if the ransomware is new and has not been used before. SMU’s detection method is known as sensor-based ransomware detection because the software doesn’t rely on information from past ransomware infections to spot new ones on a computer. In contrast, existing technology needs signatures of past infections to do its job. “With this software we are capable of detecting what’s called zero-day ransomware because it’s never been seen by the computer before,” said Mitch Thornton, executive director of the Deason Institute and professor of electrical and computer engineering in SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering. “Right now, there’s little protection for zero-day ransomware, but this new software spots zero-day ransomware more than 95 percent of the time.” The new software also can scan a computer for ransomware much faster than existing software, said Mike Taylor, lead creator of the software and a Ph.D. student at SMU. “The results of testing this technique indicate that rogue encryption processes can be detected within a very small fraction of the time required to completely lock down all of a user’s sensitive data files,” Taylor noted. “So the technique detects instances of ransomware very quickly and well before extensive damage occurs to the victim’s computer files.” Southern Methodist University (SMU) has filed a patent application for this technique with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Lyle Engineering students Taylor, a cybersecurity Ph.D. student, and Kaitlin N. Smith, a recent electrical engineering Ph.D. graduate, created the software, along with Thornton. New software enables existing sensors to detect ransomware “Ransomware is malware that enters a victim’s computer system and silently encrypts its stored files. It then alerts the user that they must pay a ransom, typically in a non-traceable currency such as bitcoin, in order to receive the key to decrypt their files,” Thornton explained. “It also tells the victim that if they do not pay the ransom within a certain time period, the key for decryption will be destroyed and thus, they will lose their data.” SMU’s software functions by searching for small, yet distinguishable changes in certain sensors that are found inside computers to detect when unauthorized encryptions are taking place. When attackers encrypt files, certain circuits inside the computer have specific types of power surges as files are scrambled. Computer sensors that measure temperature, power consumption, voltage levels, and other characteristics can detect these specific types of surges, SMU researchers found. The SMU software monitors the sensors to look for the characteristic surges. And when a suspicious surge is detected, the software immediately alerts the computer to suspend or terminate the ransomware infection from completing the encryption process. Use of the computer’s own devices to spot ransomware “is completely different than anything else that’s out there,” Taylor said.SMU About the Darwin Deason Institute for Cybersecurity The mission of The Deason Institute, which is part of SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering, is to advance the science, policy, application and education of cyber security through basic and problem-driven, interdisciplinary research. About SMU SMU is the nationally ranked global research university in the dynamic city of Dallas. SMU’s alumni, faculty and nearly 12,000 students in eight degree-granting schools demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit as they lead change in their professions, communities and the world. 46778533 2020-05-13T08:39:02-05:00 May 13, 2020|Categories: SMU In The News, Subfeature, Technology| Share This Story! FacebookTwitterLinkedinRedditEmail More SMU Research News April 29, 2020 Dallas Innovates: Gamers join scientific research to help end the COVID-19 threat April 23, 2020 New study by SMU professors details how homeless students are doing educationally in Houston ISD April 13, 2020 SMU Center for Family Counseling offers free remote services March 27, 2020 Cybersecurity matters more than ever during the COVID-19 pandemic March 10, 2020 Kids who blame themselves for mom’s sadness are more likely to face depression and anxiety February 25, 2020 A year of surprising science from NASA’s InSight Mars Mission February 24, 2020 If women scientists wore fake facial hair, would men take them more seriously? February 12, 2020 New leaf fossils found in Ethiopia’s Mush Valley January 24, 2020 SMU robotic arm is helping Beaumont boy make a remarkable recovery after polio-like condition December 19, 2019 Smithsonian has extended Sea Monsters Unearthed exhibit one more year to 2021 December 18, 2019 SMU develops efficient methods to simulate how electromagnetic waves interact with devices December 6, 2019 Drug oleandrin may be an effective new way to treat HTLV-1 virus, SMU study shows November 25, 2019 Wastewater leak in West Texas revealed by satellite radar imagery and sophisticated modeling November 20, 2019 NYT: Bickering more after kids? November 5, 2019 What’s the effect of climate change on plants? Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Health and Safety Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275