Coronavirus (COVID-19) information and resources. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content Blum Initiative Search More from us... School of Public Policy Robert Presley Center of Crime and Justice Studies UC Riverside Blum Initiative on Global & Regional Poverty Blum Initiative on Global & Regional Poverty Search About Mission Locations People Research Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Fellows Funding Faculty Graduate Students CARE-UC Fellowship Service Education PBCI 192B Events UCR Home More from us... School of Public Policy Robert Presley Center of Crime and Justice Studies Richard Blum Service Learning Fellowship Apply Today Poverty in the Inland Empire 2016-2018 Report The Blum Initiative on Global & Regional Poverty at UC Riverside’s School of Public Policy conducted an in-depth study of poverty in the Inland Empire (I.E.) for the years 2016, 2017, and 2018. Read the Report Watch the Inland Empire Poverty Summit event Childhood Economic Resources & Mature Adult Health David Brady (PI) and Bruce Link (co-PI) Learn more about the NIH supported study Single Mothers Are Not the Problem An Op-ed in the New York Times by David Brady Read Here Blum Initiative Summit Report Read Blum Poverty Summit Report California's Troubling Poverty Rate Learn More Previous Next Breadcrumb Blum Initiative The UCR Blum Initiative on Global and Regional Poverty is dedicated to advancing our understanding of poverty – in Inland Southern California and abroad – through world-class faculty and graduate student research, service, teaching, and academic and community events. We operate under the guidance of an inter-disciplinary steering committee and have nearly forty affiliated faculty and graduate student (masters and doctoral) researchers committed to the study of poverty from the social sciences, natural sciences, engineering, and humanities. A program that builds on Riverside's strengths and seeks to address local and regional poverty issues in the context of global lessons is an important endeavor that will benefit California and provide intellectual challenges and opportunities for UCR faculty and students. Janet Napolitano Former President of the University of California The mission of the Blum Poverty Initiative resonates well with the overall mission of UC Riverside. We work hard to ensure that the world-class education we offer is accessible to all, including those from poverty-stricken areas... This initiative will help us conduct research, teaching and outreach that focuses attention on poverty in the region and will help policymakers and community-based organizations improve the lives of the poor in the Inland Empire. Kim Wilcox Chancellor of UC Riverside Previous Next Our partners in research and service Previous Next Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Blum Initiative Director David Brady 4133 CHASS Interdisciplinary South Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-5564 Follow US: external site: Facebook external site: Twitter external site: YouTube external link: Instagram external link: Linkedin external link: RSS Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel