Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu People Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Resources Institutes & Centers Cores Education Undergraduate Graduate Postgraduate About Biomedical Data Science Biomedical Informatics Biostatistics Open Positions News Contact People Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Resources Institutes & Centers Cores Education Undergraduate Graduate Postgraduate About Biomedical Data Science Biomedical Informatics Biostatistics Open Positions News Contact Department of Biomedical Data Science Featured The Department of Biomedical Data Science Welcomes its Newest Faculty Member, Siming Zhao, PhD! Dr. Zhao joined the Department of Biomedical Data Science on July 1, 2021 as an Assistant Professor. Read more about The Department of Biomedical Data Science Welcomes its Newest Faculty Member, Siming Zhao, PhD! Geisel’s Center for Technology and Behavioral Health Receives $7.1M Grant to Expand Work in Digital Therapeutics The CTBH team shares a goal of harnessing existing and emerging technologies to effectively develop and deliver evidence-based interventions for substance use and co-occurring disorders. Read more about Geisel’s Center for Technology and Behavioral Health Receives $7.1M Grant to Expand Work in Digital Therapeutics A new study finds more screen time may mean less nighttime sleep for infants Dr. Jennifer A. Emond, James O’Malley, and colleagues lead a new study published in BMJ Open Read more about A new study finds more screen time may mean less nighttime sleep for infants Geisel and Dartmouth-Hitchcock Receive Grant to Monitor COVID-19 Variants in the Region BMDS chair, Michael L. Whitfield, PhD, secured the grant funding and is helping to lead the effort Read Article about Geisel and Dartmouth-Hitchcock Receive Grant to Monitor COVID-19 Variants in the Region Open Positions Tenure-Track Faculty Position in Biomedical Data Science Postdoctoral Scholar in Biomedical Data Science at Dartmouth (Moen Lab) Postdoctoral Scholar in Biomedical Data Science at Dartmouth (Zhao Lab) View Open Positions about Open Positions Educational Programs QBS MS in Health Data Science The QBS Masters of Science degree in Health Data Science provides training in data wrangling, exploratory data analysis, statistical modelling, machine learning, data visualization and communication. Graduates will have competencies in the management, analysis and interpretation of data from medicine, computational biology, pharma and genomics. PhD Program Students trained through the PhD program will be versed in bioinformatics, biostatistics and epidemiology. The program is interdepartmental with numerous collaborations between QBS members and those in other graduate programs at Dartmouth. Learn More About Educational Opportunities Welcome to Biomedical Data Science Mission The mission of the department of Biomedical Data Science at Geisel School of Medicine is to advance scholarship and education for the quantitative and computational analysis of biomedical and health data and to unite and promote Biomedical Informatics and Biostatistics as essential disciplines for the mentoring and academic development of faculty and the training and education of the next generation of data scientists. History The past decade in biomedical research has witnessed a tidal wave of “Big Data” generated from high throughput technologies, electronic medical records, and networked research resources. We are experiencing a revolution in our ability to measure and organize precise data on individuals relating to risk for disease development, its optimal management, and its outcomes. As more quantitative evaluation of individual characteristics becomes possible, there is increased opportunity for larger studies that evaluate the combinations of factors that can predict disease and care. At the same time, the demands of handling volumes of increasingly detailed data the growth in sophistication in statistical and computational modeling, and the increased potential for drawing erroneous conclusions, if cause is not distinguished from association, create enormous challenges in study design, scientific data analysis and interpretation. Data Science has emerged as a new interdisciplinary field to address these challenges. The automated management, retrieval and interpretation of extensive biological, medical and health information require that Data Science involves coordination and integration of the existing disciplines of Biomedical Informatics and Biostatistics. The Department of Biomedical Data Science brings together the breadth and depth of faculty expertise in computational and statistical methodologies. Open Positions TENURE-TRACK FACULTY POSITION IN BIOMEDICAL DATA SCIENCE Post-doctoral Scholar in Biomedical Data Science at Dartmouth (Zhao Lab) Postdoctoral Training Program for Quantitative Population Sciences in Cancer at Dartmouth Postdoctoral Scholar in Biomedical Data Science at Dartmouth (Moen Lab) View All Open Positions External Fellowship Opportunities The Data Incubator My Tweets Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth | Dartmouth College | Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center | The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy | Thayer School of Engineering | Tuck School of Business | Norris Cotton Cancer Center | White River Junction VA Medical Center | Dartmouth Graduate Program in Quantitive Biomedical Sciences | BMDS Research Software Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.