Skip to main content x Main navigation Education Prospective Students Bachelor's Degree Undergraduate Prospective Students Master's Degrees Ph.D. Degrees Current Undergraduate Degree Plan Engagement Research Career Advising Current Master's Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering Master of Biomedical Innovation and Development Career Advising Graduate Advisor Current Ph.D. Curriculum Overview Projected Lifecycle Student Support Form Career Advising Research Overview Research Centers Research Labs Research News Coulter BME Seminar Series Partners & Supporters Biolocity Job Openings Research Areas Biomaterials and Regenerative Technologies Biomedical Imaging and Instrumentation Biomedical Informatics and Systems Modeling Biomedical Robotics Cancer Technologies Cardiovascular Engineering Engineering Education Immunoengineering Neuroengineering Core Facilities U.A. Whitaker Building Health Sciences Research Building Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Technology Enterprise Park Engineered Biosystems Building Woodruff Memorial Research Building Emory School of Medicine and Research Centers Marcus Nanotechnology Building Molecular Science & Engineering Building Center for Advanced Brain Imaging People Leadership Faculty New Faculty Research Faculty / Professionals Postdoctoral Fellows Staff Advisory Board Engage with Students Engage with Biomedical Students BME Capstone at Georgia Tech Post a Research Position Post a Lab Position Giving to BME for Students BME Design Garden BME Design Shop BME Learning Commons BME PairMe Research opportunity BME Tutoring Mental Health Resources - Emory Mental Health Resources - Georgia Tech Student Organizations News & Events News Events Connections Newsletter Publications About Department Overview Chair's Welcome Rankings, Facts and Figures Community, Diversity & Inclusion Facilities History Explore Coulter BME Directions & Maps Georgia Tech - Emory Shuttle Service Health Sciences Research Building Technology Enterprise Park U.A. Whitaker Biomedical Engineering Building Giving Search Search form Search Portfolio Breadcrumb Home > Research > Research Areas > Cardiovascular Engineering Cardiovascular Engineering Cardiovascular engineering encompasses a wide range of biomedical and engineering projects targeted at understanding the mechanisms, treatments and detection of cardiovascular health, disease, and regeneration. This includes: Engineering sciences of fluid dynamics and solid mechanics integrated with biology and diseases of the heart, heart valves, vasculature, and lymphatics in adult and pediatric cardiovascular diseases. Cardiovascular regeneration or repair using up-to-date technologies including gene, drug, and cellular therapies and their delivery technologies, biomaterials, bio 3D printing, and nanotechnologies. Using experimental and computational approaches asking questions spanning the genes and small molecules to cellular and organ levels that, in most cases, are integrative and multi-scale. Fluid dynamics and mechanics of blood studied in the heart, heart valves, blood and lymphatic vessels and vascular grafts, and using in vitro, in vivo, multi-scale “OMICS” and in silico approaches, with the latter becoming increasingly prominent. The department’s research associated with mechanical heart valves, new bioprosthetic designs, and polymeric trileaflet valve prostheses is internationally recognized, as is research in arterial hemodynamics, endothelial cell biology, and their roles in atherosclerosis and arterial remodeling. New areas of research include fluid dynamics of thrombosis, stroke, aneurysms, and sickle cell disease. Cardiovascular solid mechanics work that addresses the mechanical properties and stresses in healthy and diseased arterial cross sections, and the role of mechanical factors in the disruption of atherosclerotic plaques. Biomechanical evaluation of the heart failure in adult and pediatric cardiac lesions using swine and ovine models and its translation to clinical use with cardiac MRI is being pursued. Novel technologies that use these biomechanical indices for early detection of disease progression, and to guide therapeutic intervention are in development. Research Focus Areas Biomaterials and Regenerative Technologies Biomedical Imaging and Instrumentation Biomedical Informatics and Systems Modeling Biomedical Robotics Cancer Technologies Cardiovascular Engineering Engineering Education Immunoengineering Neuroengineeing Our own Coulter BME professor Dr. Ajit Yoganathan helped develop the standards related to Mick Jagger's replacement heart valve--a Class III device. “The Cardiovascular Fluid Mechanics Laboratory focuses on understanding complex cardiovascular problems using fundamental engineering and science. The main objective of my lab is to provide answers to life-saving clinical questions using engineering approaches.” - Ajit Yoganathan. Latest News on Cardiovascular engineering research Flowing Toward a Potential Atherosclerosis Therapeutic Alexanders Expand Support for Heart Valve Research Lindsey Receives $2.5M to Develop Interventional Cardiology Imaging System Jo’s New NIH Grant Will Help Find Out if HEG1 is the Key to Atherosclerosis A Breakthrough in the Physics of Blood Clotting New Research Shows Platelets Do their Job Better When Not in Total Sync with One Another Serpooshan Awarded NSF CAREER Award to Bioprint a 3D Model of the Developing Human Heart Primary Faculty Gari D Clifford James Dahlman Lakshmi (Prasad) Dasi Michael Davis Stanislav Emelianov Rudy Gleason Scott Hollister Yonggang Ke Wilbur A. Lam Brooks Lindsey David R Myers John Oshinski Manu O Platt Vahid Serpooshan W. Robert Taylor May Dongmei Wang Cheng Zhu Program, Adjunct, Emeritus, Joint Faculty Hee Cheol Cho J. Brandon Dixon Craig Forest Laura Hansen Tony Kim Guatam Kumar Sandeep Kumar Rebecca Levit Muralidhar Padala Ajit Yoganathan Connect With Us Giving to the Coulter Department Private support gives the Coulter Department the resources to take the lead in new initiatives, to weather cyclical changes in support from government, and to make long-term investments in constantly changing technology, often before needs or opportunities are recognized by others. Your gifts can be directed to BME faculty, students, and facilities. Help us build a better world for medicine. LEARN MORE Current Undergraduate Resources Course Planning Four Year Plan Depth Electives Breadth Electives Degree Petition Checklist Prerequisite Chart Program Educational Objectives Current Graduate Resources Ph.D. Curriculum Overview Projected Lifecycle Student Support Form Master of Biomedical Engineering Master of Biomedical Engineering Forms Master of Biomedical Innovation and Development Graduate Handbook BME Resources Administration Forms BME Online Resources Georgia Tech - Emory Shuttle Grants Faculty & Staff Resources Financial Resources Mental Health Resources - Emory Mental Health Resources - Georgia Tech HSRB Room Reservation UAW & TEP Room Reservations Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Emory University 1760 Haygood Drive Suite W 200 Atlanta, GA 30322 404.727.9874 Georgia Institute of Technology 313 Ferst Drive Atlanta, GA 30332 404.385.0124 Contact Information Maps & Directions Emory School of Medicine Georgia Tech College of Engineering Emory Directory Georgia Tech Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Emory University & Georgia Institute of Technology Login | SiteMap