COVID-19 information, guidance, and resources. Information about campus return. (COVID-19 Screening Check) × Skip to main content Social Media Links Skip to main content College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences UCR Home Search Quick Links COVID-19 Information Migrate Your Courses to Canvas Keep Teaching Keep Learning ITS Technical Support/ServiceLink Portal CNAS Prime CNAS Grad Student Affairs Center CNAS Enrollment Management Center CNAS Undergraduate Academic Advising Center Office of the Campus Veterinarian Give UC Riverside EMN Administration Serving EEOB, MCSB, UCR Natural Reserves, and Stem Cell Center Search People All EMN Admin People Administrative Staff Biology Lab Prep (EEOB) Biology Machine Shop (EEOB) Organizational Chart Resources & Additional Contacts Units All Units Evolution, Ecology, and Organismal Biology Molecular, Cell and Systems Biology UCR Natural Reserves Stem Cell Center Forms & Procedures All Forms & Procedures Contracts & Grants FEDEX Shipping Label Request New Hire/Volunteer/Research for Course Credit Information Print Requests Purchasing Room Reservations Travel & Entertainment Updating your UCR Profile Work Orders Instructor Guides BIOL Courses CBNS Courses Summer Sessions - BIOL & CBNS Safety & Facilities Overview Safety & Emergencies Lab Safety Training Facilities - Trouble Tickets and Work Orders COVID-19 Information Our Events UCR Home Quick Links COVID-19 Information Migrate Your Courses to Canvas Keep Teaching Keep Learning ITS Technical Support/ServiceLink Portal CNAS Prime CNAS Grad Student Affairs Center CNAS Enrollment Management Center CNAS Undergraduate Academic Advising Center Office of the Campus Veterinarian EMN Administration Proudly serving Evolution, Ecology & Organismal Biology; Molecular, Cell & Systems Biology, the UCR Natural Reserves, and the Stem Cell Center Our Mission The mission of the EMN Administration is to provide excellent financial and administrative support to the Departments of Evolution, Ecology & Organismal Biology (EEOB), Molecular, Cell & Systems Biology (MCSB), the UCR Natural Reserves, and the Stem Cell Center, which perform research, teaching and community outreach. EEOB visit eeob Department UCR Natural Reserves Visit UCR nrs MCSB Visit mcsb Department Stem Cell Center Visit stem cell Center CNAS Science News May 26, 2022 A drunk driver killed her parents. Now she’s graduating to honor them Azalea Corral has a family photo that shows her three younger siblings and parents smiling together against a Santa Barbara countryside backdrop. It was taken on February 8, 2020 — the last time they would pose together for a photo. The following day, both her parents succumbed to bodily injuries after a drunk driver struck them while they were out on their usual evening stroll in Goleta, a community about 12 miles west of Santa Barbara. Corral’s siblings were in the house; she was on a train back to Riverside. Read More » May 24, 2022 Pheromones lure deadly palm weevils to their doom UC Riverside scientists have a new chemical weapon to seduce and kill the invasive, long-nosed beetles destroying California palm trees by the tens of thousands. Read More » May 19, 2022 New strategies to save the world’s most indispensable grain A UC Riverside-led team has learned what happens to the roots of rice plants when they’re confronted with two types of stressful scenarios: too much water, or too little. These observations form the basis of new protective strategies. Read More » May 17, 2022 Remembering ‘isotope queen’ Marilyn Fogel, pioneering scientist, beloved mentor Marilyn Fogel, endowed geoecology professor at UC Riverside, died on May 11 in Mariposa, Calif. She was 69. She pioneered the use of isotopes to understand the life history of organisms, both modern and ancient. In so doing, she helped develop biogeochemistry as a new field of science and earned the moniker ‘isotope queen.’ Read More » More CNAS Science News University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 EMN Administrative Unit 2710 Life Sciences & Psychology Bldg Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-5903 fax: (951) 827-4286 email: emnadmin@ucr.edu Find Us COLLEGE OF NATURAL & AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES CNAS Dean's Office Geology Building, Room 2258 900 University Ave Riverside, CA 92521 Related Links College of Natural & Agricultural Sciences Environmental Health & Safety Graduate Division Harvest Shared Services Center Office of the Registrar Research and Economic Development UCR Facilities Services Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Let us help you with your search × Enter your Search Criteria Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel