Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU fa51e2b1dc8cca8f7467da564e77b5ea Make a Gift Join Our Email List Contact Us Search About People Contact Us Make a Gift Join Our Team Programming Calendar For Faculty For Graduate Students For Undergraduates For Departments Equity & Inclusion Learning Lab Learning Lab News Learning Lab Services Online Resources Designing Your Course In the Classroom Getting Feedback Equity & Inclusivity Advising & Mentoring Teaching & Your Career Teaching Remotely Tools & Platforms The Science of Learning Bok Publications Campus Resources News Partnering with faculty to create transformative experiences Attend the Bok Center's Faculty Lunches and workshops to hear from colleagues like Harvard College Professor Robin Bernstein Creating a Community of Graduate Student Teachers The Bok Center offers graduate students more than professional development—it offers them a home beyond their departments. Where Students Design their Own Educations In the Learning Lab, undergraduates and graduates create experiences that are as magical as they are meaningful. Register for Summer Bok Seminars Bok Seminars are a great opportunity to connect and explore areas of interest in teaching and learning with other PhD students. Topics for the summer term include Preparing to Teach: A Seminar for New TFs, Mindful Approaches to Race in the Classroom, Designing Alternative Assignments, and Speak Up! Pronunciation for International TFs . Learn More and Register Current News Learning Together: Spotlight on Culture and Communication Consultants May 24, 2022 The Bok Center’s Professional Communication Program for International Teachers and Scholars supports international PhD students at all stages of their academic careers through seminars and resources on teaching, cross-cultural communication, and English language proficiency development. Our team of undergraduate Culture and Communication Consultants (CCCs) serve as language partners, lead discussion groups, and organize special events such as Harvard House tours. The CCCs offer insights... Read more about Learning Together: Spotlight on Culture and Communication Consultants Congratulations to the 2021-22 Bok Teaching Certificate Recipients! April 29, 2022 The Bok Teaching Certificate gives GSAS PhD students a tangible marker of their ongoing commitment to developing as teachers in higher education. Guided by three principles—Learn, Practice, Reflect—those who pursue the Certificate explore different topics in teaching and learning through departmental pedagogy courses and Bok Seminars, reflect on their own teaching practice, and compile a portfolio of written materials documenting their experience. We offer a tailored approach for students; no two students follow... Read more about Congratulations to the 2021-22 Bok Teaching Certificate Recipients! Behind the Bok: Ashlie Sandoval April 14, 2022 Each month we will profile a member of the Bok staff in order for our friends and colleagues to learn more about us, the full range of work that we do, how we approach our work, and what is happening in the world of teaching and learning from different perspectives. Ashlie Sandoval, Assistant Director, Equity and Inclusion... Read more about Behind the Bok: Ashlie Sandoval More News Upcoming Events 2022 Jun 06 Bok Seminar - Preparing to Teach: A Seminar for New TFs 9:30am to 11:30am Location: 125 Mt. Auburn St. Room 325 Led by Pamela Pollock and Rebecca Miller Brown What can new TFs do to get ready for the first day of class and beyond? In this seminar, you will practically prepare to teach for the first time, learn about resources available to you as you begin your teaching career, and build confidence in the process! We will help new TFs explore best practices for traditional section teaching. We will follow the arc of the semester; each session will be devoted to a teaching topic, including the first day of class, inclusive teaching, lesson planning and delivery, and giving and receiving... Read more about Bok Seminar - Preparing to Teach: A Seminar for New TFs See also: Graduate Students, International Teachers and ScholarsRead more 2022 Jun 06 Bok Seminar - Designing Alternative Assignments 10:00am to 12:00pm Location: 50 Church St. 3rd Floor Learning Lab Studio Led by Marlon Kuzmick, Christine D'Auria, and Jordan Koffman In the average course, students will spend a large chunk of their time listening, a large chunk of their time reading, and some of their time making things. This seminar is devoted to the making chunk, and, within this chunk, to modes of making that are either newly emergent or overlooked. Over the course of five sessions in the Bok Center’s Learning Lab, we will experiment with a number of different media and tools, from podcasting to performance to 3D-modeling to photography. No previous experience of... Read more about Bok Seminar - Designing Alternative Assignments See also: Graduate Students, International Teachers and ScholarsRead more 2022 Jun 06 Bok Seminar - How Students Learn 2:00pm to 3:30pm Location: Zoom Led by Tamara Brenner How does memory work? What strategies—inside and outside of the classroom—help students retain information and apply their knowledge to new situations? In this seminar, we will explore how students learn, drawing on neuroscience, cognitive psychology, and educational research. We’ll examine topics including motivation, metacognition, growth mindset, and retrieval practice, and discuss how to apply this knowledge to our own teaching. During the last two sessions of the seminar, each student will present a concept drawn from The ABC’s of How We Learn:... Read more about Bok Seminar - How Students Learn See also: Graduate Students, International Teachers and ScholarsRead more 2022 Jun 08 Bok Seminar - Teaching and the Job Market: Getting From “TF” to “Colleague” 9:00am to 10:30am Location: Zoom Led by Eleanor Finnegan and Adam Beaver Are you on or near the job market? Enthused or concerned about the prospect of assembling a teaching portfolio, writing a syllabus, or giving a teaching demonstration? Wondering what, exactly, a “teaching philosophy” is, and how you get one? While Harvard hopefully has given you opportunities to practice and receive feedback on your teaching, it is often the case that your career as a TF is shaped by forces beyond your control: that is to say, that you’ve taught in courses, in modalities, and with assignments set by someone else, which... Read more about Bok Seminar - Teaching and the Job Market: Getting From “TF” to “Colleague” See also: Graduate Students, International Teachers and ScholarsRead more 2022 Jun 14 Bok Seminar - Mindful Approaches to Race in the Classroom 10:30am to 12:30pm Location: 125 Mt. Auburn St. Room 307 Led by Ashlie Sandoval How do you skillfully address race in the classroom, accounting for the multiple identities that students hold? How can you facilitate classroom discussions that center race without perpetuating racial harm? In this practice-based seminar, we’ll read articles from scholars working on the intersections of mindfulness and race and practice different mindfulness techniques. Drawing on scholarship and our own experiences, we’ll learn to craft learning scenarios that process hard moments instead of circumventing challenging discussions. We’ll explore how to... Read more about Bok Seminar - Mindful Approaches to Race in the Classroom See also: Graduate Students, International Teachers and ScholarsRead more More Events The Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning 50 Church Street Suite 308 Cambridge, MA 02138 125 Mt. Auburn Street 3rd Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 bokcenter@fas.harvard.edu p: 617.495.4869 Join Our Email List https://www.instagram.com/derekbokcenter https://twitter.com/DerekBokCenter https://www.facebook.com/BokCenter f8834bcb8b5e85c94cd4b76fcb353790 smooth scroll JS Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement