Skip to main content No Search Please enter search criteria CSU BOOKSTORE CLOSED ON MAY 30, 2022: Due to the Memorial Day holiday, Colorado State University and the CSU Bookstore will be closed on Monday, May 30, 2022. OPEN During Construction! The CSU Bookstore is OPEN to serve you during construction! Learn more about the project and preview the big changes coming to the CSU Bookstore and Lory Student Center! See Remodel Details Learn About the LSC Project Bookstore Register My Account Cart Course Materials and Books Clothing and Gifts Art, Office & School Supplies Alumni Gear Ship It or Pick It Up Across the STATE or around the world, the CSU Bookstore offers convenient shipping and in-store pick up options for your books, supplies, or CSU Rams gear! See Shipping Rates and Pick-Up Details Staff Favorites Charcoal Colorado State University Sweatpants by Champion CSU Bookstore Gift Certificate CSU Woolie Ram Grey Colo St w/ Ram's Head Dye Rib Sweatshirt by Champion Colorado State Rams Progressive Pride Flag - 3 foot x 5 foot CSU Rams Charcoal Fleece Jogger by Champion CSU Pre-Printed Graduation Announcements - 10 pack Mint Green Adjust Your Altitude CSU Long Sleeve Pocket Tee Green CSU Rams Women's Baseball Tank by Champion White Semester at Sea Graduation Stole Most Popular Items Green Champion Colorado State University Hooded Sweatshirt CSU Woolie Ram Colorado State University Mini Ram Head Pennant Champion® Basic Colorado State University Tee White Champion® Basic Colorado State University Tee Green Black Colorado State University Sweatpants by Champion Granite Heather Colorado State Champion Sweatshirt Green Colorado State University Decal Colorado State University Ram CSU Decal White Champion Colorado State University Hooded Sweatshirt Charcoal Colorado State University Sweatpants by Champion CSU Rams Mom Decal New Items Green Colorado State Long Sleeve Repreve T-shirt by League Heather Grey CSU Rams Unisex Long Sleeve Tee Black CSU Rams Women's All-day Crew by Under Armour Torn Apart By Dorothy Roberts Green Colorado State T-Shirt by Champion Oatmeal CSU Rams Women's Intramural Tank Top by League Heather Gray Colorado State Victory Falls Long Sleeve Tee Gray Colorado State Womens Crossover Hoodie by Colosseum Gray CSU Rams Sprint 1/4 Zip Windshirt by Colosseum Oatmeal Heather CSU Rams Myla Shirt by Colosseum Green CSU Rams Speckled V-Neck by Colosseum Green Colorado State Unisex Trail Tee by Colosseum Find an exceptional selection of CSU Rams Gear Boasting an exceptional selection of quality CSU Rams gear, apparel, and gifts, the CSU Bookstore offers outstanding service and competitive pricing. Whether you’re looking for T-shirts, hats, or sweatshirts, you’ll find trusted brands such as Under Armour, Champion, Gear, and Zephyr Hats in updated styles and fabrics. Your purchase of official CSU Rams gear helps support Colorado State University students, as all revenue is returned to Colorado State University for student programs and services. The Official CSU Bookstore is a leader in innovative and money-saving programs directed to the CSU community, with a focus on CSU students, our most-valued customer. In purchasing textbooks, students rely on the Bookstore for ease, convenience, and value, starting with the Textbook Preorder program and the online price comparison tool. Students save even more with used and rental textbooks, or can choose less expensive versions of required texts. Quality digital course materials also are available for many courses, and many digital materials offer a homework platform, quizzes, and extra testing options. Choosing digital saves students time and money - more than half the cost of new textbooks. At the end of each semester students can get cash back for used textbooks in good condition at the Bookstore-sponsored Sell Back. At Sell-Back in-demand titles are purchased by the Bookstore and put back on the shelves for the next semester as lower priced used textbooks. Using these price-saving options, Colorado State University students saved nearly $5.5 million last year. The campus location of the CSU Bookstore also offers everything you’ll need for class – notebooks, pens, pencils, and reference books – and an impressive selection of art supplies. The Bookstore is dedicated to providing students with essential tools to successfully pursue and achieve their educational goals and objectives, with a priority to exceed each customer’s expectations. Our Store About Us Locations and Hours Student Employment COVID-19 Response Contact Us We accept Shop Textbooks CSU Rams Gear Semester at Sea Textbooks Semester at Sea Merchandise General Books Supplies Help Contact Us Bill to your Student Account Inclusive Access Course Materials Drop Ship Merchandise Paying with Credit Cards Shipping Policy Textbook Pick Up Information SMS Text Message Alerts COVID-19 Response Cancel Online Order Return Policy Connect with Us Colorado State University Bookstore 8035 Campus Delivery Fort Collins, CO 80523-8035 (970) 491-0546 (800) 925-7267 Contact Colorado State University | Equal Opportunity | Privacy Statement | Disclaimer © 2021 Colorado State University Bookstore Critical Error! Failed to call the server. Close Session Timeout Your session has timed out and requires a page refresh. Refresh Page Added to Cart Continue Shopping View Cart Privacy and Disclaimer I.1.A