Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | FSU Bookstore Navigation Search FSU Webmail This website Any FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Main navigation Home FSU Computer Store Buyback & Rental Check-in Follett Access Graduation Faculty Employment Hours Contact Us Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu FSU Bookstore Main navigation Home FSU Computer Store Buyback & Rental Check-in Follett Access Graduation Faculty Employment Hours Contact Us FSU Computer Store The FSU Computer Store offers students the distinct advantage of educational pricing on brand names such as Apple, Dell, HP, and Microsoft. We also offer enterprise-level systems that are reliable and full-featured enough to last throughout a student’s educational journey. We work closely with Florida State University to ensure our computers have the right components and warranty to receive the highest level of support available on campus. We also work with individual colleges to make sure we have a computer system that will meet or exceed their recommendations. The FSU Computer store is an Apple Authorized Campus Store. Our experienced, well-trained staff will gladly help you select the right Apple product for your academic needs. We carry the full assortment of Apple laptops, desktops, tablets, and watches as well as a wide assortment of Apple accessories. We also handle custom model requests. The FSU Computer Store is also your Apple Authorized Service Provider, handling warranty and non-warranty repairs on-site for all Apple products. Visit the Service Center page for hours, services offered, and their costs. No appointments are necessary, so visit our store or give us a call at (850) 644-7344 to discuss options with an FSU Computer Store professional today. You can take comfort knowing that all your Apple service needs are handled by Apple certified professionals using only genuine Apple parts. Non-Apple computer support is offered through FSU Student Computing Support. Schedule an appointment online or visit the Shaw Building on campus at 644 W Call Street (map), Monday-Friday 8:00 am - 4:30 pm for support. FREE Microsoft Office Online Office Online delivers a free, web-based version of Microsoft applications. Use Office Online to access online versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and more to work on files from anywhere with a web browser and internet connection. Sign in to Office 365 with your FSUID Students: outlook.com/my.fsu.edu Faculty: https://outlook.com/fsu.edu Click the app launcher icon in the top left corner Select an Office Online app. 2FA (Two-Factor Authentication) Florida State University utilizes 2FA to protect your data from phishing attempts and other digital threats by determining that you are who you say you are and not just someone using a stolen password. To utilize 2FA at Florida State University you will need to download the DUO App or purchase a hardware token: Download the free Duo App on the App Store or Google Play or purchase a DUO Hardware Token. Add your device with these instructions: How to Set Up 2FA Guide Verify your identity when you sign into an FSU system. To learn more about DUO and 2FA, visit the ITS 2FA webpage. Florida State University Bookstore 104 N Woodward Ave Tallahassee FL, 32306 MAP (850) 644-2072 (850) 644-9953 A service under FSU Finance & Administration ® Florida State University © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media