Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | FSU Bookstore Navigation Search FSU Webmail This website Any FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Main navigation Home FSU Computer Store Buyback & Rental Check-in Follett Access Graduation Faculty Employment Hours Contact Us Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu FSU Bookstore Main navigation Home FSU Computer Store Buyback & Rental Check-in Follett Access Graduation Faculty Employment Hours Contact Us Graduation We are so proud of you! Now that you are graduating you are going to need to know a few things to make your special day go off without a hitch. Check out the tips below to make your graduation hassle-free. Regalia Requirements Graduates and degree candidates participating in ceremonies are required to wear FSU customized regalia available exclusively through the FSU Bookstore and Herff Jones. The caps and gowns were created specifically for FSU and available for rental or purchase. You may not wear borrowed regalia or regalia purchased from alternative vendors. Decorated caps are not permitted, and you will not be allowed to participate in a ceremony with a decorated cap. Renting Your Cap & Gown Rental Orders may be placed on the Herff Jones website. Any late orders will be assessed an expedited shipping fee. For ordering deadlines and details, check the Herff Jones website. Purchasing Your Cap & Gown If you would like to purchase your regalia, you may do so through the FSU Bookstore website or in person at the FSU Bookstore. Please note that regalia purchases are custom-tailored and will take up to 8 weeks to create and ship. Rental Gown Return Items rented through the Herff Jones website may be returned with the pre-paid label provided in the original package or directly to the FSU Bookstore during normal business hours. Bachelor: Keep your cap & tassel, return your gown Master: Keep your cap and tassel, return your gown and hood Doctor & Ph.D.: Return all rented items Announcements All announcement orders may be placed on the Herff Jones website. Announcement packages are available with cap & gown rentals. Class Rings Balfour is the official FSU class ring provider. For further information on ordering and delivery times, visit balfour.com/fsu. Honor Cords Honor cords are ordered by your college and distributed on the day of commencement. Please contact the commencement office at (850) 644-1050 for additional information. For more information regarding graduation, visit registrar.fsu.edu/graduation. Florida State University Bookstore 104 N Woodward Ave Tallahassee FL, 32306 MAP (850) 644-2072 (850) 644-9953 A service under FSU Finance & Administration ® Florida State University © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media