Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | FSU Bookstore Navigation Search FSU Webmail This website Any FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Main navigation Home FSU Computer Store Buyback & Rental Check-in Follett Access Graduation Faculty Employment Hours Contact Us Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu FSU Bookstore Main navigation Home FSU Computer Store Buyback & Rental Check-in Follett Access Graduation Faculty Employment Hours Contact Us Follett ACCESS Florida State University, in partnership with the FSU Bookstore, is committed to ensuring student success by getting the right books and materials needed to be successful in the hands of our students. Now, with Follett ACCESS, FSU delivers selected course materials as part of course fees. With Follett ACCESS, students have what they need before or on the first day of class, stress-free and effortlessly — which increases preparedness and levels the playing field for all students, regardless of economic background or social status. Participating in the Follett ACCESS program will allow you to access required materials at a discounted price. You will automatically be enrolled into the program when you register for select classes. If you’ve recently registered for a Follett ACCESS course, please allow one business day for the new course to appear as we receive updated data from the Registrar’s Office. If you drop a course, don’t worry, any charges associated with the dropped course will be removed after the drop/add period. If you would like to opt-out, follow the link in your .my.fsu.edu account email or visit the Follett Access Portal. Further information can be found online at studentbusiness.fsu.edu/how-pay/follett-access-textbook-program. For courses that are part of the Follett ACCESS program, materials will be added to your student account automatically. However, getting required course materials that are NOT included in the program is as easy as 1, 2, 3! Visit shopfsu.com and click on textbooks. Search for your books by term and course. Select rental, digital, used or new. (Tip: Save on costs when you rent!) Submit your order! The campus store will have these materials ready for pick up, hassle free. Order online or visit us in-store where our textbooks experts will be happy to assist you in completing your required course materials purchase. Florida State University Bookstore 104 N Woodward Ave Tallahassee FL, 32306 MAP (850) 644-2072 (850) 644-9953 A service under FSU Finance & Administration ® Florida State University © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media