Skip to main content About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate Impact & Recognition Florida State Athletics can only achieve greatness with the involvement of passionate and loyal donors. It is our pleasure to say thank you and recognize the support of those donors. Giving Societies Micco Society The word Micco in the Seminole language means Chief or Leader, thus it is appropriate that our most distinguished giving society bears that name. This society recognizes those top individuals who have given over one million dollars in charitable giving, usually in the form of a singular gift. Serving as the most inner circle, Micco Society members join in the shared vision of providing the best academic and athletic opportunities for Florida State Athletics. Custodes Lampadis Guardians of the torch, from the Latin custodes lampadis, or, more liberally, "defenders of the flame", designates a select corps of individuals within the University's sphere. The Custodes Lampadis Society was established to preserve intercollegiate athletics at Florida State University, and to ensure that future generations of young men and women athletes are provided an opportunity to obtain an excellent education. This is the one of the most exclusive of all Seminole Boosters affiliations, as it is comprised of those who engage in the nobility of projecting their love for the University beyond the horizon of their own mortality. Most society members specify their gifts for athletic scholarships, and these gifts will be placed in the Endowed Scholarship Fund. Only the interest earned from the Endowment Fund is used, making their gift one that will give in perpetuity. Gifts made for facilities and development will be placed in the Florida State Athletic Fund. Both endowed scholarship gifts and athletic fund gifts can be designated by sport, and can be in the donor's name or in the name of someone of the donor's choosing. Any person who makes an estate gift to Seminole Boosters, Inc., will gain entrance into this prestigious society. Society membership is not dependent upon the size or type of estate gift. I grew up around FSU leaders like my Dad (Andy Haggard), George Langford, and Les Pantin. But, you just can’t sit around and hope these guys will do something else. When you look at the pride we have in our university we have to give back to it -Mike and Bekki Haggard Featured Donors Langfords continue family tradition with commitment to FSU athletics Bob Ferrante | August 7, 2020 | 3 minute read Seminole Boosters, Inc. and the Florida State University Athletics Department have received a leadership commitment from Beth and Lawton Langford in support of Seminole athletics. The Langfords have been involved with Seminole Boosters for decades. Lawton became involved soon after earning his MBA and law degree in 1982, while Beth was part of the committee of 30 that helped raise… Read More Langfords continue family tradition with commitment to FSU athletics Bob Ferrante | August 7, 2020 | 3 minute read Seminole Boosters, Inc. and the Florida State University Athletics Department have received a leadership commitment from Beth and Lawton Langford in support of Seminole athletics. The Langfords have been involved with Seminole Boosters for decades. Lawton became involved soon after earning his MBA and law degree in 1982, while Beth was part of the committee of 30 that helped raise… Read More Langfords continue family tradition with commitment to FSU athletics Bob Ferrante | August 7, 2020 | 3 minute read Seminole Boosters, Inc. and the Florida State University Athletics Department have received a leadership commitment from Beth and Lawton Langford in support of Seminole athletics. The Langfords have been involved with Seminole Boosters for decades. Lawton became involved soon after earning his MBA and law degree in 1982, while Beth was part of the committee of 30 that helped raise… Read More VIRES, ARTES, MORES A UNIVERSITY-WIDE DONOR RECOGNITION SOCIETY The Vires, Artes, Mores donor recognition society takes its name from the Latin words for strength, skill and character found in the university seal and was created to thank those committed individuals and organizations whose support has made a positive and lasting impact on the Florida State University community. Honorees in Vires, Artes, Mores have exhibited gracious dedication to the university’s long-term vision, ambitious initiatives and transformative ideas. Inclusion in Vires, Artes, Mores begins at $250,000 of cumulative support given through five of the university’s Direct Support Organizations—FSU Foundation, Seminole Boosters, FSU Alumni Association, The John & Mable Ringling Museum of Art Foundation, and FSU Real Estate Foundation. learn more Vires, Artes, Mores Donor Honor Roll Donor wall unveliing Useful links About us Our Story Meet the Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Seminole Boosters, Inc. 225 Champions Way University Center C Suite C-5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 United States of America seminoleboosters@fsu.edu (850) 644-3484 Federal Tax ID 59-1561180 501(c)(3) Nonprofit © Copyright Seminole Boosters, Inc. 2021. All rights reserved. US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy