Skip to main content About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate Leadership giving Athletic Scholarship The dream of playing college sports is a powerful motivator for young men and women, many of whom are the first from their family to attend college. Athletic scholarships are the means by which those dreams become reality. Scholarships are not "given" by the university, nor are they "free rides". Scholarships are earned by the student-athletes who have an intense daily academic and athletic regimen. Scholarships are paid for by the Athletics Department – more than $11.5 million per year – and funded by Seminole Boosters. More than 80 percent of Florida State scholarship recipients graduate from the university – including a high percentage of first-generation college students – and their lives, and the lives of generations of their family are changed as a result. Learn more about a scholarship endowment fund – Contact Stephen Ponder at stephen.ponder@fsu.edu or (850)644-3484 Make a scholarship commitment ($25,000 or more paid over five years) – Call (850)644-3484 Make a one-time gift to an existing scholarship fund in any amount Scholarship FAQs Q: Does Every Student-Athlete Receive A Full Scholarship? A: Most do, but many receive only a partial scholarship. Each year, approximately 350 students receive an athletic scholarship. We maintain 246.2 full athletic scholarships, the maximum number of scholarships allowed under NCAA rules, for each of our men and womens sports. Q: What Does A Scholarship Cover? A: A full scholarship includes tuition, meals, books, materials, housing and miscellaneous or cost of attendance expenses. Athletic scholarships provide both in-state and out-of-state tuition. In addition to the fall and spring semesters, scholarships also cover student athletes expenses during summer sessions and pre-and post-school periods. Q: How Much Does A Scholarship Cost? A: For the 2018-19 school year, the AVERAGE cost of an in-state, undergrad athletic scholarship was approximately $22,456 and out-of-state, undergrad was $36,804. Our student-athletes are currently, and traditionally, almost evenly divided between Florida residents and non-Florida residents. That means that half are subject to in-state tuition and half to out-of-state tuition. Q: Who Pays For The Scholarships? A: The Athletic Department is required to pay all of the student-athletes scholarship expenses, including tuition. Gifts from annual Seminole Booster donors (Golden Chief, Silver Chief, Tomahawk, etc.) have been transferred to the Athletic Department to pay those scholarship costs. Providing scholarships for its students is the most important function of the Athletic Department. However, these scholarship costs one of the largest items in the athletic budget. Those costs are over $11.5 million annually. Q: Why Are Scholarship Costs Rising So Fast? A: Florida State University has always been one of the best bargains in America for a great education. Until recently, our tuition has been one of the lowest in the country. The University has been forced to substantially raise in-state tuition. More important to athletics, where half of its students come from outside Florida, the University has increased out-of-state tuition rates more. Additionally, the NCAA's progression rule (how a student is progressing toward graduation) as well as the cost of attendance have increased the overall cost due to summer school and miscellaneous expenses. Q: How Much Does A Scholarship Cost? A: For the 2018-19 school year, the AVERAGE cost of an in-state, undergrad athletic scholarship was approximately $22,456 and out-of-state, undergrad was $36,804. Our student-athletes are currently, and traditionally, almost evenly divided between Florida residents and non-Florida residents. That means that half are subject to in-state tuition and half to out-of-state tuition. Q: What Is An Endowment? A: An endowment fund is one whose principal stays intact, while a portion of the earnings (traditionally 5 percent of the corpus) is gifted for a specific purpose. The portion of the annual earnings not gifted is left in the corpus, allowing the fund to grow. Because a donor's original endowment gift remains intact, he or she is making a gift that will give in perpetuity. At an earnings rate of 5%, it would take a gift of $449,120 to fully fund an in-state, undergraduate scholarship and $736,080 to fully fund an out-of-state, undergraduate scholarship. Useful links About us Our Story Meet the Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Seminole Boosters, Inc. 225 Champions Way University Center C Suite C-5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 United States of America seminoleboosters@fsu.edu (850) 644-3484 Federal Tax ID 59-1561180 501(c)(3) Nonprofit © Copyright Seminole Boosters, Inc. 2021. All rights reserved. US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy