Skip to main content About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate Game Day Parking Football Parking Information Parking lot permits are for the entire season. Cooking devices and tents must not interfere with neighbors, adjacent parking, or thoroughfare. The lot will be monitored and we reserve the right to terminate parking privileges for misconduct towards fellow boosters or parking personnel or misuse of the permit, or abuse during tailgating. All parking passes must be printed and displayed prominently as you approach campus and must be displayed the entire time you are in your designated lot. If the permit is not properly displayed, the vehicle may be towed. Parking lots open five hours prior to kick off or no later than 12:00 pm. There are exceptions during certain home games, and these will be announced ahead of time. Numbered Priority Lots: Your permit for a numbered priority lot gains access to a specific lot. Lots 1-6 are assigned spaces while all other lot spaces are first-come, first served. See chart below. Assigned Spaces in Numbered Priority Lots: Your permit assigns both a priority lot and a reserved space number within that lot. (Golden Chiefs Lots: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6) Parking assignments are as follows: Donors who renew at the same level are assigned the same lot as the previous year (Unless otherwise requested via e-mail or phone). New assignments (anyone changing membership levels) are based on spaces available in lots at that level. Motorhome parking assignments will be posted by 5pm each Wednesday of a home game. Vehicles over 20 feet in length will not be permitted to park in the regular Booster lots as they will not fit in the defined parking/tailgating areas. Golden, Platinum and Legacy Chief members with an oversized vehicle will be directed to Lot A to park in designated grass spots that are adjacent to the paved, reserved area. Warrior, Tomahawk, and Silver Chief members with an oversized vehicle will be directed to park in the Master Craftsman lot on Gaines Street. A valid, current year Seminole Booster parking permit must be presented when arriving at the lot entrance and must remain displayed for the entire time you are in the lot. Football Priority Parking Lot Donation 27 - 29 Minimum Renegade donation of $330 12, 13, 17, 19, 25 - 29 Minimum Warrior donation of $650 7, 9, 10, 11, 14, 16, 21, 22, 23 Minimum Tomahawk donation of $1,300 5, 8, 15 Minimum Silver Chief donation of $3,250 1 - 6 Minimum Golden Chief donation of $6,500 See Lot Directions PDF 2022 Football Parking Map Parking Contacts General Information Booster Member, Motorhome & Charter Bus Parking SeminoleBoosters@fsu.edu Game Day Disabled Parking Seminole Boosters can not issue or distribute Disabled Parking permits. If you have questions or need an application to apply for disabled game day parking please contact Transportation and Parking Services. Also please note, if you are issued a game day parking permit through the ADA’s office, you will not be issued a Seminole Booster parking permit. Transportation and Parking Services 104 N. Woodward Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: (850) 644-5278 Fax: (850) 644-4999 Email: taps-dpp@fsu.edu Motorhome Parking 2022 Football Spring Game Information Motorhome registration for the 2022 Spring Game is coming soon. We will be using Motorhome Lots C & D only. Parking spaces will not be assigned. Lots will open at 10:00 am on Friday and close Sunday at Noon. Online registration will close on Wednesday, April 6 at 12:00pm. After that time, spaces, if available, can be purchased on site on Friday, April 8 or Saturday, April 9. 2022 Season Information Seminole Booster members who drive fully self-contained motorhomes to the home football games and who contribute at the Platinum Chief, Legacy Chief, Golden Chief, Silver Chief or Tomahawk levels are eligible to park their motorhome in the designated lots the weekend of home football games. Motorhome assignments will be sent via email to the same email address used during the registration process on Wednesday evening of each home game.. Motorhome Information & Policies (Updated: 09/20) Motorhome Parking Map Register for Motorhome Parking Charter Bus Parking The Charter Bus fee is $150.00 per bus, per game. Charter buses may park beginning 4 hours before kickoff. Buses must depart within 1 hour of the conclusion of the game. View parking directions below. Charter Bus Parking Directions From Tennessee Street, turn south onto Stadium Drive. Turning left on Call Street traveling east, turn right, travel south onto Chieftan Way. There, a Parking Attendant will check registration and issue permits. Buses will be direted to park on Chieftan Way, next to track, north of the intersection of Spirit Way. Exit: All buses must exit east of the stadium on Pensacola St. Attendants will guide. Charter Bus Parking Application Basketball Parking Priority Platinum, Golden and Silver Chiefs who are basketball season ticket holders will receive complimentary parking in the main lot of the Civic Center. Passes will be sent electronically 2-3 weeks prior to the first game of the season. Passes need to be printed and used for entry on game day. Coaches Clubs members who donate $300 or more to the men’s basketball program will receive a parking pass for the entire season as a part of their membership benefits. If you would like more information about receiving a parking pass by joining the Coaches Clubs and supporting the Florida State Men’s Basketball, click on the link below and proceed with the online donation process for men’s basketball. For more information, contact the Director of Coaches Clubs, Cristian Gonzalez-Mendez, by calling 850-645-9836850-645-9836 or emailing cgonzalezmendez@fsu.edu. Join the Basketball Coaches Club Baseball Parking Priority Reserved parking for FSU Baseball games is available for Baseball Coaches Clubs members at the Bronze Level ($1,000) and above. The parking spaces are located in Lot 11, just behind the baseball scoreboard in left field. There are no assigned parking spaces; parking is first come first serve. Reserved parking spots within the lot are available for Baseball Coaches Clubs members at the Gold Level ($3,000) and above. Parking passes are valid only for the regular season and not for NCAA Tournament play. General Baseball Parking is available in other lots surrounding Dick Howser Stadium. For more information, call Cristian Gonzalez-Mendez at 850-645-9836850-645-9836 or emailing cgonzalezmendez@fsu.edu. Join the Baseball Coaches Club Useful links About us Our Story Meet the Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Seminole Boosters, Inc. 225 Champions Way University Center C Suite C-5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 United States of America seminoleboosters@fsu.edu (850) 644-3484 Federal Tax ID 59-1561180 501(c)(3) Nonprofit © Copyright Seminole Boosters, Inc. 2021. All rights reserved. US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy