Skip to main content About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate Seminole Student Boosters Become part of the only student organization on campus dedicated to Florida State Athletics! Become a Seminole Student Booster Join Seminole Student Boosters! Become part of the only student organization on campus dedicated to Florida State Athletics! Seminole Student Boosters was founded in 2004 by Seminole Boosters, Inc. This organization fundraises year-round for FSU Athletics. Seminole Student Boosters sponsors the T.R.U.E. Seminole Campaign and is the only student organization which raises money for athletic scholarships. This organization also serves as the connection between the student body and the FSU Athletics Department. Student Booster members receive the following benefits: 2 additional entries in the student ticket lottery. Student Booster Membership Card with discounts for popular spots in CollegeTown. Student Booster membership packet which includes a custom insulated water bottle. Four-year members will also receive an exclusive SSB coozie. Invitations to exclusive athletic sponsored events such as Golden Gala with FSU players and coaches. Access to the SSB Express Line which will expedite you into the stadium. Line is set up at Gate M and you must show your current Student Boosters Membership card. Becoming a Student Booster does not guarantee a ticket to football or basketball games. Become a Seminole Student Booster T.R.U.E. Seminole Endowment Since 2004, Seminole Student Boosters has quickly become the largest student organization at Florida State University and in the state of Florida. With over 4,000 active members annually, this organization set out to further their philanthropic mission through the development of the T.R.U.E. Seminole Campaign. With an overwhelming response from the entire Seminole Community, over $250,000 has been raised in support of student athletes at Florida State. These funds allow FSU students athletes to excel both on the field and in the classroom. Student Boosters Board Members Maya Hawat President Donald Ross III Vice President Governing Board Blakely Byrd VP of Outreach Brynlie Burley VP of Marketing Grace Cockrell VP of Events Gabe Rutois VP of Recruitment Hilton Harris VP of Finance Mike Fiorello VP of Membership Mia Natole VP of Administration Joe Keyser VP of T.R.U.E. Executive Board Membership Kade Burley Sophia Agro Lexi Shouppe Ryan Simone T.R.U.E. Lauren Hansel William Pfeiffer Nolan McNealy Events Katie Boeneman Maddie Dunbar Daniella Curatelli Jacob Lipoff Recruitment Nicole Masters Nick Sidor Nicolas Joseph Jake Annand Social Media Jenna Monkarsh Grant Diaz Graphic designs Connor Vanscoy Allie Clemons SAAC Liasion Chandler McBride James Tibbs SGA Liaison Raj Himatsingani Videography/Photography Riley Martin Ben Engel Zoey Gerstel Campus Relations Tia Hairston Jake Remler Public Relations Skylar Davis Hunter Heim Greek Relations Brad Seale Brianna Rhoads Leadership Council Jenna WilliamsCarlos BaldorBen PorterJordonn TomlinDylan GoldsteinCameron WilsonKionah NelsonKarli Del GiudiceLucas BozemanJack Long Annual Events Our Special Events committee works year-round to implement these events while maintaining the representative and philanthropic mindset held so dearly by our council. The events below have been successful in engaging our members and beneficiaries while raising funds for the T.R.U.E. Seminole Endowment. Champion's Forum Fall Semester Champion’s Forum is an exclusive networking event held each semester for Student Booster members. These members have the opportunity to connect with successful and influential FSU alumni and athletes. Champion’s Forum guest speakers provide students with key insights into how FSU impacted the success of their future careers. Golden Gala Spring Semester Golden Gala is an annual fundraising event that celebrates the accomplishments of Seminole Athletics. This event brings together student organizations from all corners of campus to recognize our incredible student athletes. The annual T.R.U.E. Scholarship recipient is also announced and celebrated each year at the Gala. Past Galas have featured notable Seminoles such as Mike Norvell and Michael Alford. Nole Bowl Spring Semester The Nole Bowl is an annual flag football tournament that allows Student Booster members to create a team and go head-to-head in the legendary Doak Campbell Stadium. The event is held on a Sunday in February of each year to recreate the Super Bowl experience on the Seminole home turf. Money raised from the event’s ticket sales, registration, merchandise, and concessions all contribute in support of the T.R.U.E. Scholarship fund to be awarded later in the year at the Golden Gala. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Q: What is Seminole Student Boosters? A: Seminole Student Boosters is an organization that fundraises year-round for FSU Athletics. We sponsor the T.R.U.E. Seminole Campaign and are the only student organization that raises money for athletic scholarships. This organization also serves as the connection between the student body and the FSU Athletics Department. Q: What does becoming a Booster entail? A: When becoming a booster, you will receive two additional entries into the student ticket lottery, invitations to exclusive athletic sponsored events such as Golden Gala with FSU players and coaches, a Student Booster Membership Card with discounts for popular spots around Tallahassee, and a membership packet. Four-year members will also receive an exclusive SSB hat. Q: What does T.R.U.E. stand for? A: T.R.U.E. is our campaign that stands for Tradition, Respect, Unity, and Excellence. Q: Who can become involved on the Student Boosters Board? A: Any student with a passion to work hard and get involved with Florida State Athletics can be involved. We currently have members on our board who are involved with Student Government, Athletics, IFC, Panhellenic, NPHC, Line Dance, Dance Marathon, Garnet & Gold Key, Marching Chiefs, and more. Q: How do I apply to be on the Student Boosters Board? A: Each executive board term runs from January to December. Applications will become available each January and will be accessible through our social media platforms. Keep an eye out for announcements posted throughout the new year so you do not miss the deadline. Q: How can I contact Seminole Student Boosters? A: You can reach us by email via fsussb@gmail.com. Q: What is your Instagram handle? A: Our Instagram is @fsussb, click here to follow us for updates on everything student booster! Contact Us Email fsussb@gmail.com or use the online inquiry form here https://boosters.fsu.edu/feedback Stay up to date on all things Seminole Student Boosters: Useful links About us Our Story Meet the Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Seminole Boosters, Inc. 225 Champions Way University Center C Suite C-5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 United States of America seminoleboosters@fsu.edu (850) 644-3484 Federal Tax ID 59-1561180 501(c)(3) Nonprofit © Copyright Seminole Boosters, Inc. 2021. All rights reserved. US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy