Skip to main content About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate Seminole Boosters Contact Information Seminole Boosters, Inc. 850-644-3484 850-222-5929 seminoleboosters@fsu.edu Mailing Address Seminole Boosters, Inc. P.O. Box 1353 Tallahassee, FL 32302 Physical/Shipping Address Seminole Boosters, Inc. 225 University Center C Suite C5100, Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Athletics Ticket Office 850-644-1830 or 888-378-6653 850-644-5688 ticketoffice@seminoles.com Staff Directory Executive staff Michael Alford President & CEO Stephen Ponder Executive Vice President Derril Beech Annual Giving Paul Phipps Marketing & Technology JP Sinclair Finance Kari Terezakis Stewardship Ben Zierden Operations Evans Adonis General Manager Development Officers Name Title Email Phone Mike Dasher Senior Vice President of Development mike.dasher@fsu.edu 850-644-9674 Tom Carlson Senior Vice President tcarlson@fsu.edu 850-644-4862 Eric Carr Senior Vice President of Development for Central Florida edcarr@fsu.edu 407-335-9781 Colson Hosford Director of Real Estate & Development cyhosford@fsu.edu 850-320-4489 Kyle Kashuck Director of Development kkashuck@fsu.edu 727-692-0262 Billy Sexton Director of Development – South Florida bsexton@fsu.edu 850-509-9016 Kevin Smith Director of Development - Greater Tampa Bay Region kjsmith3@fsu.edu 317-696-2743 Hugh Tomlinson Director of Development & Gift Planning htomlinson@fsu.edu 850-500-4844 Chris Wilson Director of Development - Greater Atlanta Area cawilson@fsu.edu 850-228-0094 Max Zahn Regional Annual Fund Director fsumax@bellsouth.net 904-716-5637 Javier Garcia-Tunon Director of Development – Goldcoast of Florida jgarciatunon@fsu.edu 786-897-9597 James Warren Director – Panhandle Area & Big Bend Region jwarren@fsu.edu 850-527-0701 Ticket Sales and Service Name Title Email Phone Mark Cameron Sr. Director of Ticket Sales, Service, & Retention mcameron@fsu.edu 850-645-9770 George Seliga Manager of Ticket Sales & Service gseliga@fsu.edu 850-645-9585 Brian Wagner Sr. Account Representative – Premium Sales & Service bwagner@fsu.edu 850-645-9586 Andrew Pope Sr. Account Representative – Sales & Service apope2@fsu.edu 850-645-9771 Mikey Wagner Sr. Account Representative – Sales & Service mdrinkard@fsu.edu 850-644-2707 Justin Schaefer Account Representative – Premium Sales & Service jrschaefer@fsu.edu 850-645-9587 Danielle Friedel Account Representative – Sales & Service dfriedel@fsu.edu 850-645-0187 Ryan Agcaoili-Mullins Account Representative – Sales & Service ryan.mullins@fsu.edu 850-645-2613 Jahangir "Jay" Khan Account Representative – Sales & Service jkhan2@fsu.edu 850-645-7386 Kacie Juday Account Representative – Sales & Service kjuday@fsu.edu 850-644-1835 Client Services Name Title Email Phone Nicole Sullivan Director of Client Services snsullivan@fsu.edu 850-644-0503 Kayla Chandler Client Services Account Representative kmchandler@fsu.edu 850-645-7333 Accounting/Human Resources Name Title Email Phone JP Sinclair Chief Financial Officer jpsinclair@fsu.edu 850-644-3484 Amy Hanstein Director of Employee Relations & Accounts Payable ahanstein@fsu.edu 850-644-3484 Mark Majszak Comptroller mmajszak@fsu.edu 850-644-3484 FSU Trademark Licensing Name Title Email Phone Katie Watt Pugh Director of Trademark Licensing katie.pugh@fsu.edu 850-644-3141 Garrett O'Connor Assistant Director of Trademark Licensing goconnor2@fsu.edu 850-644-8690 Marketing Name Title Email Phone Paul Phipps Chief Marketing/Technology Officer pphipps@fsu.edu 850-644-0354 Derril Beech Senior Vice President of Marketing and Annual Giving derril.beech@fsu.edu 850-645-8296 Cristian Gonzalez Mendez Director of Coaches Clubs cgonzalezmendez@fsu.edu 850-645-9836 Monica Perez Director of Graphic Arts mcperez@fsu.edu Dani Palazzo Member Engagement Coordinator dpalazzo@fsu.edu 850-644-2169 Stewardship Name Title Email Phone Kari Terezakis Senior Vice President of Stewardship kterezakis@fsu.edu 850-644-2950 Bailey Hicks Stewardship & Special Events Coordinator bmhicks@fsu.edu 850-644-3378 Varsity Club Name Title Email Phone Betsy Hosey Director of Varsity Club bhosey@fsu.edu 850-644-1123 Seminole Hospitality Name Title Email Phone Morgan Robinson Manager Morgan.Robinson@fsu.edu 850-644-1686 Tiffany Mixon Assistant Manager tnm19a@my.fsu.edu 850-644-8899 Operations Name Title Email Phone Eddy Najdowski Director of Skybox Maintenance Semnioleboosters@fsu.edu 850-644-3484 × Michael Alford President & CEO The role of leading Florida State University’s storied athletic support organization has come open just once since its formal organization 45 years ago. In 2020, Seminole Boosters, Inc. set out to attract an accomplished leader with multifaceted skills and both a vision and plan to maximize the effectiveness of one of the top programs in the country. FSU found that leader in Michael Alford, who has already enjoyed outstanding success during his first year at the helm. Drawing on skills and experience from a remarkably broad-based career with championship organizations, Alford has rapidly transformed the Seminole Boosters into a team that matches his passion for ambitious goals paired with a comprehensive plan to achieve them. In less than one year under Alford’s leadership, Seminole Boosters have added over 2,000 new annual members, raised $15 million towards a new football operations center bringing the total commitments to over $55 million, and increased total revenue compared to the previous two fiscal years. Alford’s success at FSU should not come as a surprise given his accomplishments in previous positions during his 26 years in intercollegiate athletics and professional sports. Alford came to Florida State from Central Michigan University, where he was Associate Vice President and Director of Athletics from 2017-20. His impact on Chippewa Athletics was remarkable and included surpassing the all-time department fundraising record in 2017-18 by 50 percent. Then, he led his team to a new record the next year and enlisted an all-time high of Chippewa Athletic Fund memberships. Before CMU, Alford was the Senior Associate Athletic Director for Development and Administration at the University of Oklahoma from 2012-2017. At OU, Alford oversaw the ongoing efforts of the Sooner Club, the principal fund-raising arm of OU Athletics. Under his leadership, the Sooner Club set annual giving records for donations in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, while membership increased to an all-time high of more than 12,000 members. In addition, his team coordinated capital campaigns and other special projects, most notably, the campaign for a renovation and modernization of Gaylord Family — Oklahoma Memorial Stadium. Before joining Oklahoma, Alford was Senior Director of Corporate Partnerships and Sales for the Dallas Cowboys (2008-2012). With the Cowboys, he cultivated corporate relationships that resulted in over $400 million in contractual revenue for the club. In his role, he managed all aspects of programming for Cowboys Stadium. Prior to joining the Cowboys, Alford was the General Manager of Crimson Tide Sports Marketing at the University of Alabama (from 2004 to 2008). Crimson Tide Sports was responsible for the management of the media rights for Alabama. He provided oversight for all aspects of sales and marketing, including corporate sponsorships, radio and television, sports marketing, and the internet. He was also involved in contract design, negotiations and hiring of coaches, and the management and enhancement of ancillary revenue streams – including licensed apparel, merchandising contracts and concessions. Alford also worked at ABC Broadcasting in Los Angeles, where he provided oversight of sports sales for both the Anaheim Angels and Los Angeles Kings radio networks. Before ABC, he was Associate Athletics Director at the University of Southern California, where he oversaw all aspects of marketing, corporate sales and media contract negotiations. Alford’s first position in professional sports was Corporate Sales Executive with the Cincinnati Bengals. In this role, he was actively involved in all facets of the planning, construction and corporate sponsorships for Paul Brown Stadium. In addition, he provided oversight for Ticket Marketing, Group Sales and Hospitality. His first position in Intercollegiate Athletics was at the University of Cincinnati as Assistant Director of Marketing. Alford played baseball at Mississippi State before transferring to UAB, where he earned a bachelor’s degree in Communication in 1993. He received a master’s in Athletics Administration from the University of Arkansas in 1995. Alford is married to Laura, a former collegiate volleyball student-athlete at Hawaii. They have three daughters Audrey, Ashley and Anna Leigh. @SeminoleAlford × Stephen Ponder Executive Vice President | stephen.ponder@fsu.edu Stephen Ponder most recently served as Deputy Athletics Director at Ole Miss in 2016-17 and Senior Executive Associate Athletics Director from 2012-1. While there, he led the ultra-successful Forward Together Campaign at Ole Miss that surpassed its $150 million goal by $20 million. He also was responsible for oversight and project management on a $100 million football facilities improvement project, a $95 million basketball facility as well as a baseball and a varsity sport facility. Prior to Ole Miss, Ponder was Senior Associate Athletic Director for External Operations at Arizona State where he is credited with increasing athletics fundraising from $7.5 million when he joined the Sun Devils in 2006 to $25 million in 2012. A 1989 graduate of NC State, Ponder worked for the Wolfpack from 1991-2006 rising to Associate Athletic Director and Associate Executive Director of the Wolfpack Club. Among his many accomplishments at NC State was securing $55 million for the expansion of the football stadium and $65 million to build a new basketball arena. Most recently, Ponder was with Balch Sports where he worked with high-level collegiate coaches and served as a consultant to intercollegiate athletic programs. Stephen and his wife, Sloane, have two sons – Stetson and Stratton. × Derril Beech Annual Giving | derril.beech@fsu.edu Derril Beech started her career with Seminole Boosters in 2005 and currently serves as the Annual Fund manager. Additionally, she provides oversight to the Coaches Clubs and Seminole Boosters "Ways to Give." Over the past decade, she has worked primarily on the annual fund, helping to generate over $150 million in gifts. As a student-intern for Seminole Boosters, Derril was a founding member of the Student Booster organization that is now the largest student organization on campus. She continues to serve as director of that program. Derril and her husband have two young children, and she enjoys outdoor sports and visiting the coast. × Paul Phipps Marketing & Technology | pphipps@fsu.edu Coming × JP Sinclair Finance | jpsinclair@fsu.edu J.P. Sinclair began his career as an auditor at Thomas Howell Ferguson P.A. As a lifelong Tallahassee resident and Seminole fan, when the chance came to join the Seminole Boosters in 2014 he jumped at the opportunity. Since joining the Seminole Boosters, J.P. has helped the Accounting Department make significant strides in monthly reporting and was heavily involved in the acquisition of debt for the Dunlap Champions Club and Stadium Renovation projects, and the CollegeTown phase III project. J.P. is married to Courtney and is an avid golfer. × Kari Terezakis Stewardship | kterezakis@fsu.edu Three words that describe Kari are dedicated, honest and loyal. Kari Terezakis moved to Tallahassee from Fort Pierce, Florida, in 2003 to attend Florida State. Soon after graduating, she began her career with Seminole Boosters and developed a passion for being in the "people" business. Over the course of 10 years, she has gained invaluable experience by working in various areas of the organization from customer service to special events and now donor relations. Helping to create positive experiences for Florida State supporters through personal connections and outreach is what she enjoys the most. Recently, Kari has worked to develop a comprehensive stewardship program for donors of all levels with a primary focus on major and principal-gift level individuals and families, as well as implemented an endowment reporting process. Outside of the office, she likes to spend her time staying physically active, traveling and spending time with her friends. × Ben Zierden Operations | bzierden@fsu.edu Ben Zierden began his career at Florida State in 1999 as a graduate assistant in the Athletics Ticket Office, advancing to Assistant Athletics Director over 15 years. Under his leadership, the department grew from six to 18 full-time employees across Ticket Operations, Sales and Service. He joined Seminole Boosters in February 2014 as Vice President for Marketing and Annual Giving, transitioning to Senior Vice President for Operations in March 2016. In his current role, he provides executive oversight of operations including systems, business processes, procedures, data management and support of organizational and specific department goals. He oversees the areas of Gift Processing, Advancement Services, Facility Operations, Trademark Licensing and also serves as liaison with the Athletics Ticket Office in the administration of the FSU Priority Policy. Ben and his wife, Kim, have two daughters and enjoy spending time outdoors with family and friends. × Mike Dasher Senior Vice President of Development | mike.dasher@fsu.edu Mike Dasher has been with the Seminole Boosters since 2015 and FSU since 2009 and oversees major gift fundraising, gift planning and is a principal gift fundraiser. Mike came to Seminole Boosters after serving as the Senior Director of Gift Planning at the FSU Foundation. A native of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and a 1999 FSU College of Business graduate, Mike was previously a Financial Advisor with Morgan Keegan in Tallahassee. His love of all things Florida State make this his passion to serve the many loyal and generous constituents of the university. He is married to Rachel, College of Nursing Class of '01, and they have a son, Daniel. Mike not only frequents baseball, football and basketball games but loves to fish, hunt and spend time traveling with his family. × Tom Carlson Senior Vice President | tcarlson@fsu.edu Tom lived in Tallahassee since 1971. After beginning his career in 1970 working with First Boston Corporation in NYC he moved back to Tallahassee and completed his degrees at FSU while also serving as the GA basketball coach with head coach Hugh Durham. Upon graduation he accepted the head coach position at Maclay school in Tallahassee. He was the boys basketball coach there for 11 years, winning the boys state basketball championship in 1979 and Coach of the Year honor. He later accepted a position with FSU on Pat Kennedy's staff. During that time the FSU men's basketball team had 7 post season tournament appearances, including 5 NCAA, with Elite 8, Sweet 16 and also Final 4 NIT appearances. After coaching, he joined the Seminole Boosters and has served as a major gift fundraiser for 21 years and most recently as Sr Vice President of Development. He has been involved in fund raising with the very successful capital campaigns starting with the Dynasty campaign to the Champions Campaign. He is Married top Pam Wood Carlson and they have 5 children. All have attended Florida State University, they are Erika Lord, Brandy Carlson Moore, Kayce Bonfield, Carmin Nedley and Benjamin Wood. × Eric Carr Senior Vice President of Development for Central Florida | edcarr@fsu.edu Eric Carr grew up in Richmond, Virginia, admiring the Seminoles from afar before becoming the only member of his immediate family to attend FSU. His career with Seminole Boosters, Inc. began in 2005 at 24 years old with an unpaid internship on the 30th Anniversary Bobby Bowden Tour, working directly with Seminole Boosters, Inc. senior VP and executive director Charlie Barnes as well as Coach Bowden himself. In the prime of a regional and national award-winning tenure with billion-dollar revenue animal health industry juggernaut IDEXX Laboratories, Eric could not resist Andy Miller's invitation to return to Seminole Boosters, Inc. in 2009 — this time as a major gift development officer in Tampa, Florida. Eric now lives in Orlando with his wife of four years, Anne (FSU class of '08). The couple is active in Summit Church and enjoys anything having to do with faith, football and their 2-year-old South African Boerboel "Phoenix." × Colson Hosford Director of Real Estate & Development | cyhosford@fsu.edu Colson Hosford joined the Seminole Boosters staff in April 2015 and serves as the asset manager for all SBI owned real estate assets. In 2016 he also began serving as a major gift fundraiser focusing on real estate gifts to the Boosters. Prior to joining the Boosters Colson was a member of the 2002-03 Football team as a walk-on WR and later played two seasons professionally in Europe with the Munich Cowboys. Prior to playing football abroad he spent eight years in the Commercial Real Estate & Banking industries. Colson is a native Tallahassian and is a very average golfer and angler, but seems to really enjoy both. He and his wife, Katie (Class of '03), have been married for 8 years and have two sons: Yancey (2) and Duke (1). × Kyle Kashuck Director of Development | kkashuck@fsu.edu Kyle Kashuck started with Seminole Boosters in June 2019 and is a major gift fundraiser in South Florida, focusing on facility and scholarship needs, as well as annual memberships. Kyle previously has worked with Maryland Terrapins and the Alliance of American Football- Orlando Apollos selling corporate partnerships, and luxury suites. He grew up in Clearwater, Florida and attended FSU as a student equipment manager for FSU Football under Coach Bobby Bowden for his final season in 2009 working with the football team until the 2013-14 National Championship season. In a five year span Kyle was a part of five bowl game victories, three ACC championships and a BCS National Championship. Kyle also worked at IMG Academy under Chris Weinke, worked as a UCLA Quality Control coaching assistant and earned a double masters degree MBA/MSA from Ohio University. Kyle lives in West Palm Beach, Florida and enjoys running, playing golf and talking Seminole recruiting. × Billy Sexton Director of Development - South Florida | bsexton@fsu.edu The Tallahassee native was a standout athlete at Leon High School in Tallahassee. He played his first three years of college football at Alabama before transferring to Florida State. He was the Seminoles' starting quarterback in 1973. Upon graduating with his BS in '74 Sexton began his coaching career briefly at Leon high, followed by a graduate assistant coach at FSU and then a full-time coach in '77 under head coach Bobby Bowden. Sexton oversaw the quarterbacks and running backs, coaching and mentoring many legendary players, including nine who were drafted from '88-'98. He served as Assist. head coach and won two national championships before retiring in 2006. After coaching, he was recruited by Seminole Boosters to serve as a major gift fundraiser. In 2017, Billy was honored by Florida State University with the distinguished Circle of Gold Award, presented to those who personify the university's tradition of excellence. He and his wife, Joy, have three children – Wyatt, Leslie and Taylor. × Kevin Smith Director of Development - Greater Tampa Bay Region | kjsmith3@fsu.edu Kevin Smith started with Seminole Boosters in April 2017 and is a major gift fundraiser for the West Coast of Florida, focusing on facility and scholarship needs, as well as annual memberships. Kevin previously worked 9 years with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, mostly as Luxury Suite Manager and was responsible for client relations and retention for their luxury suite memberships. He grew up in Indianapolis, Indiana, where his father, Hunter Smith (FSU class of '71), was the Head Athletic Trainer for the Indianapolis Colts for over 25 years. Kevin and his twin brother, Brian (FSU Class of '06), attended FSU together and were student equipment managers for FSU Football under Coach Bobby Bowden's leadership from 2002-2005, winning three ACC Championships during that span. Kevin also interned with the Indiana Pacers and Indianapolis Colts, then earned a master's degree at FSU as a Graduate Assistant for the 2006-2007 football seasons. Kevin lives in Tampa with his wife, Lauren, of two years. Together they enjoy golf, bicycling, traveling, and spending time with their chocolate lab named Poppy. × Hugh Tomlinson Director of Development & Gift Planning | htomlinson@fsu.edu Hugh Tomlinson joined the Boosters in August 2016 and serves as our Director of Development and Planned Giving where he specializes in complex and deferred gifts. Prior to joining the team, Hugh was a successful business owner, and longtime Financial Advisor with North Florida Financial Corporation. He is a Thomasville GA native that came to Tallahassee to attend Florida State University where he graduated in 1994 with a BS in Economics. Hugh met his wife, Julie (C/O 1994), while attending FSU and they have been married 22 blissful years. They have three children, Tanner who is 12, Taylor Faye who is 15, and 17-year-old Maegan who has a scholarship to play softball at FSU. Hugh has been very active locally serving on several boards. Hugh is a current and longtime board member and a four-time President of the Tallahassee Quarterback Club, a Past Chairman of the YMCA, the current Chairman of the Board of Governors for the University Center Club, a current board member of Network of Entrepreneurs and Business Advocates (NEBA), member of Springtime Tallahassee, and also serves as Chairman of the BluePrint 2000 Intergovernmental Agency's Citizens Advisory committee. × Chris Wilson Director of Development - Greater Atlanta Area | cawilson@fsu.edu Chris Wilson joined Seminole Boosters in June 2018 and serves as the Director of Development for the Greater Atlanta area, focusing on facility and scholarship needs, as well as annual memberships. Prior to joining SBI, Chris worked 9 years with Florida State Athletics, most recently as the Director of Service & Retention. A native of Lexington, SC, Chris earned his Master's degree in Sport Administration from Florida State University in 2011. He lives in Atlanta with his wife Krizia. × Javier Garcia-Tunon Director of Development – Goldcoast of Florida | jgarciatunon@fsu.edu The son of Cuban immigrants, Javi Garcia-Tunon was born and raised in Miami, Florida. After graduating from Belen Jesuit, Javi was recruited to compete for FSU's Track & Field team from 2004-2009. During those years, the team won 3 National Championships; '06, '07 and '08. Javi won the ACC Championship in the 400 meter hurdles in '09 and became an All-American with his 8th place finish at the NCAA Championship. Javi excelled in the classroom as well winning the Golden Torch Award (highest GPA) five years in a row, earning Academic All-American honors 4 years in a row and being named ACC Scholar Athlete of the Year in '09. Javi earned his BS in Business Management in '07 and MBA in '09. He worked for three years in the FSU Athletic Ticket Office and in 2012 returned to the front lines, the heart of Hurricane territory, to serve as a Seminole Boosters fundraiser for the South Florida area. Javi is married to a former FSU swimmer, Abbie, and they currently have two future Seminoles –Javi Jr. and Lucy. Javi is proud to work every day raising funds for the athletic scholarships and facilities that he and Abbie both benefitted. × James Warren Director – Panhandle Area & Big Bend Region | jwarren@fsu.edu James is a lifelong resident of Panama City Beach where he lives with his wife Connie who is also a Bay County native and Seminole sports fan. The Warrens' have two daughters and two granddaughters who also live in the area. Seminole Booster members and season ticket holders for 30 years, James and Connie have served as volunteer leaders for the Panama City Seminole Club and for Seminole Boosters, Inc. After a successful career as a housing contractor, James became an employee of Seminole Boosters, Inc. in 2007 serving our donors with season tickets and club seats before becoming a major gift fundraiser. The Warrens love to travel especially to Seminole athletics events. × Evans Adonis General Manager | eadonis@fsu.edu Evans Adonis began his sales career at AT&T Stadium as part its first-ever group/tour sales team which produced over $10M per year for the Dallas Cowboys and other third-party events. Since then, he’s been promoted into several key sales and leadership roles with a few prominent organizations including the Chicago Cubs, Charlotte Hornets and Miami Dolphins. Adonis most recently served as the Director of Membership Sales for the Miami Marlins where he led new season ticket sales efforts and credited for improving their league sales rankings from 28th to top 10 the past two years. He also led a Ticket Bank campaign during the pandemic that successfully produced over $100K in newfound revenue and contributed to surpassing the department goal by 168%. In his new role with Seminole Boosters, Evans will oversee ticket sales transition for the Doak Campbell Stadium Renovation Project and work closely with all parties involved to enhance the gameday experience for season ticket holders, annual fund donors and stadium guests. Evans played football at Northern Illinois University (NIU) while earning both his bachelor’s and master’s degree in Sales and Sports Management. He and his wife, Nyika, have a son, Zane and a dog, Nala. Useful links About us Our Story Meet the Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Seminole Boosters, Inc. 225 Champions Way University Center C Suite C-5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 United States of America seminoleboosters@fsu.edu (850) 644-3484 Federal Tax ID 59-1561180 501(c)(3) Nonprofit © Copyright Seminole Boosters, Inc. 2021. All rights reserved. US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy