Skip to main content About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate We are the official Direct Support Organization for Florida State Athletics. Partner with us to ensure the continued success of Seminole Athletics. Your support provides educational, leadership, and athletic opportunities for more than 500 student-athletes. Learn More Donate Now About us Florida State Athletics is the front porch of Florida State University, a preeminent Top-20 public institution. Our mission secures the long-term prosperity of Florida State by fully supporting its Athletic Department, 20 teams and more than 500 student-athletes. 85% Student-Athlete Graduation Rate No. 2 Overall Athletic Winning Percentage 18 National Championships 192 Conference Championships Learn More The Impact of Your Donation Janarius Robinson thanks Seminole Booster members Whats New at FSU Our Seminole Family with Bobby Bowden You can help Florida State University by supporting Florida State Athletics. Get involved today with a membership gift of $70 or more. Did you know that about half of our student-athletes are first-generation college students? Membership 2022 One Tribe Annual Fund Make Your Annual Membership Commitment Today! Renew my membership for 2022 2022 booster membership information Seminole Boosters offers Florida State fans with the opportunity to be involved and to make an impact. Contributions help fund four key areas: Facilities, Scholarships, Annual Fund (unrestricted support that helps across the board, in all aspects), and Coaches Clubs which is sport specific support directed to the team of your choice to help cover needs beyond the annual operating budget. Learn more by selecting the "Ways to Give" menu option above. FSU Champions Club The Club is currently open to the entire Tallahassee and FSU community until March when membership dues commence. Visit the FSU Champions Club website to learn more. Updates, Chats, & More Visit UnconqueredMagazine.com to watch and read the latest features and updates on Seminole sports, including video chats with head coaches and student-athletes. 51 on Madison 51 on Madison is a private club for Seminole Booster Members; a unique culinary experience that will push, but always remain true to its deep Tallahassee roots. Visit 51 on Madison to learn more. Useful links About us Our Story Meet the Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Seminole Boosters, Inc. 225 Champions Way University Center C Suite C-5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 United States of America seminoleboosters@fsu.edu (850) 644-3484 Federal Tax ID 59-1561180 501(c)(3) Nonprofit © Copyright Seminole Boosters, Inc. 2021. All rights reserved. US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy