Skip to main content About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate Annual booster membership Annual membership supports the most vital needs of the FSU Athletics program including scholarships, athletic training, strength and conditioning, and more, and provides members with exclusive benefits including a connection to the athletic program. Renew 2022 Football Season Tickets Donate Now Non-Season Ticket Member New Season Tickets Buyer - Click here to select new seats Impact Scholarships 246.2 scholarships for 500 student-athletes Cost: $11.6M annually Sports Medicine Comprehensive anatomical health, plus injury prevention and rehabilitation program for all teams. Cost: $3.5M annually Strength & Conditioning Complete performance based strength and speed program for all teams Cost: $650K annually Nutrition Total nutritional program geared towards performance goals for all teams Cost: $675K annually Equipment All the tools needed to achieve peak performance for all teams Cost: $1.2M annually (plus contributions from Nike per our contract) Donation Levels and Benefits Legacy Chief $25,000+ Platinum Chief $13,000 - $24,999 Golden Chief $6,500 - $12,999 Silver Chief $3,250 - $6,499 Tomahawk $1,300 - $3,249 Warrior $650 - $1,299 Renegade $330 - $649 Brave $140 - $329 Iron Arrow $70 - $139 Spirit $25 - $69 Annual memberships are available at any time throughout the year (not prorated), and expire on December 31st. Monthly payment options are available throughout the year to help spread your donation out over several months. View the benefits chart here. Membership Card Discounts and Offers: CollegeTown Merchants: Barefoot Campus Outfitters – 15% off purchase BB Studios – 10% off purchase Coosh’s – 10% off order iDope – half off all screen protectors and free computer diagnostics Hotel Indigo (R&R Eatery) – 15% discount on all food items at R&R Eatery Little Masa – 10% off order Madison Social – 10% off order Tally and Fin – 10% off purchase Tin Lizzy’s – free queso or margarita with purchase Township – 10% off order Vale – 10% off order Retailers: Alumni Hall – 10% off in store purchases (excludes gift cards and sale items) Bill’s Bookstore - 10% off in store purchases (excludes gift cards and sale items) Garnet & Gold - 10% off in store purchases (excludes gift cards and sale items) Seminole Sportshop - 10% off in store purchases (excludes gift cards and sale items) Ticket Priority Ticket priority simply refers to the seat location and quantity a member could receive based on their current giving level for away, neutral site or post-season games, as well as moving or improving season ticket location at home venues. Home venue ticket priority applies for new seat purchasers or current season ticket holder who want to move or improve their seat location. Current season ticket holders receive first-option to renew seat location. The Priority Policy was first adopted in 1979 to create a consistent allocation for tickets specific to high demand games. Review ticket priority seating chart for Doak Campbell stadium Priority point policy Frequently Asked Questions Q: What does it mean to be a FSU Booster? A: You love FSU Athletics and want to see it succeed You want to provide educational and leadership opportunities for student-athletes You desire a meaningful connection with FSU Athletics You are willing to invest into the programs that our teams need to achieve success You care about the long-term prosperity of Florida State Q: Who can become a Booster? A: Anyone who loves FSU and wants to support its mission. Every fan, living anywhere, alumni or not, friend of the University, parent of a current or former student, are a few examples of Booster members. We welcome all who want to see FSU succeed to become a Booster. Q: Why does the athletic department need Booster support? A: Because it is self-supported and budgeted dollars only come from 4 primary sources: Boosters, corporate sponsorships, The ACC, and ticket sales. The university or state does not support the department. We are committed to competing and operating at a high-level, which requires resources. If you want FSU to win, and we all do, we must be committed to providing the best possible services (strength and conditioning, nutrition, development, equipment, sports medicine, etc.) for student-athletes. Q: How much do I have to donate to become a Booster? A: For $70 per year, you can become an annual Booster member. Membership levels range from $70 to more than $10,000 per year and come with varying benefits at each level. Some supporters give at a certain level because of a benefit associated at that level. Some give $70 without any expectation of benefits simply because they want to help. Q: What are your Booster goals for 2022? A: Our 2022 goal is 13,500 members. Q: Where does that money go? A: After the cost of fundraising, which has averaged between 8-12% over the past five years, all donations fund athletic scholarships for student-athletes, support services for teams to be able to compete, and athletic facilities. Q: Where do I find more information about the Boosters and need for support? A: Visit additional pages on this website, call us at 850-644-1830 or email seminoleboosters@fsu.edu. We’re happy to answer any and all of your questions. Q: What do I get for making a donation? A: You receive a connection to FSU Athletics from exclusive member content and events throughout the year, ticket priority, and more. See the benefits chart above for a complete list of benefits. Q: How do I sign up? A: Make a donation on this website here or call our office at 850-644-1830 Useful links About us Our Story Meet the Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Seminole Boosters, Inc. 225 Champions Way University Center C Suite C-5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 United States of America seminoleboosters@fsu.edu (850) 644-3484 Federal Tax ID 59-1561180 501(c)(3) Nonprofit © Copyright Seminole Boosters, Inc. 2021. All rights reserved. US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy