Skip to main content About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate What is the Coaches Clubs Program? The Seminole Boosters Coaches Clubs provides alumni and fans of Florida State Athletics an exclusive opportunity to direct their financial support to the head coach and team of their choice. At the Coaches Clubs, we believe that it's "Your Team. Your Choice". Every dollar given to the Coaches Clubs is immediately directed to the program of your designation in order to provide funds for urgent needs not covered in the team's annual budget. Scroll down to learn more Why Give? Funds from the Coaches Clubs are a major component in helping every program at Florida State compete at the highest level of collegiate athletics. Coaches Clubs helps develop elite talent into championship student-athletes both in the classroom and in competition. Some of the pressing needs of our programs that our Coaches Clubs members provide support for are: Purchasing state-of-the-art training equipment to provide enhanced student-athlete safety and overall performance. Providing summer school opportunities for deserving student-athletes. Facility enhancements and upgrades. Supplemental funding for "Team Impact Trips" that are critical for recruiting and enhancing the overall FSU student-athlete experience. Why Give? Fsu Women's Sport Science Campaign Better Technology, Better Results Here at Florida State. It's no different. Several of our highly successful women's sports teams utilize cutting-edge technology that enables us to remain amongst the nation's top Devision I programs. While there is always more to learn, sports science makes a huge impact on our.. Learn more Pledge your support If you would like to submit your pledge offline by check or credit card, please print and mail in our Coaches Club Donation Form. Baseball Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Beach Volleyball Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Cheer & Dance Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Cross Country / Track & Field Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Golf Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Men's Basketball Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Men's Tennis Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Soccer Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Softball Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Swimming & Diving Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Volleyball Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Women's Basketball Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Women's Tennis Your Impact Join The Club Benefits Useful links About us Our Story Meet the Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Seminole Boosters, Inc. 225 Champions Way University Center C Suite C-5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 United States of America seminoleboosters@fsu.edu (850) 644-3484 Federal Tax ID 59-1561180 501(c)(3) Nonprofit © Copyright Seminole Boosters, Inc. 2021. All rights reserved. US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy