Skip to main content About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate About Us Our Story Meet The Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers 51 on Madison FSU Champions Club Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Game Day Parking The Nole Zone Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Capital Projects Feature Projects Facilities Impact & Recognition Making Your Gift Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Game Day Parking Official Fan Travel Log In/Out Donate Log in/out Donate About Seminole Boosters, Inc. Who We Are Funding Comprehensive Excellence in Competition and in the Classroom. As the fundraising arm of Florida State University Athletics, Seminole Boosters, Inc. is responsible for engaging fans, alumni and loyal supporters of FSU in order to generate financial contributions for the purpose of enriching the overall educational and athletic experience for over 500 student-athletes participating in 20 sports programs by providing financial security for long-term growth and prosperity. Seminole Boosters, Inc. is comprised of loyal and generous donors dedicated to enhancing the student-athlete experience in support of the University’s mission to instill the strength, skill and character essential for lifelong learning, personal responsibility and sustained achievement. By becoming a contributor, or by maintaining your contribution in support of FSU Athletics, you help support one of the most visible and successful programs in the nation. Contributions made to Seminole Boosters provide the financial framework that makes winning possible through scholarships, academic and medical services, facilities, and championship caliber coaches. What We Do Seminole Boosters is a support organization that funds the Florida State Athletics Department. Every year, Seminole Boosters funds $34 million in program support on behalf of the athletics department. Seminole Boosters provides more than nearly $11 million annually in scholarship costs on behalf of 399 Florida State student-athletes. While these scholarships are of no cost to the student-athletes, they are not free. The university does not provide tuition discounts or waivers. Boosters pays $11 million on behalf of the athletics department for several athletics facilities including Doak Campbell Stadium, Dick Howser Stadium, Indoor Practice Facility, Soccer/Softball Complex, Track and Field, Seminole Golf Course and Morcom Aquatics Center. Seminole Boosters also funds $11.5 million towards funding winning edge programs such as academic services, athletic training, player development, student services and more. Why Give The Florida State University Athletics program is primarily funded by Atlantic Coast Conference distributions, sponsorship agreements (via Seminole IMG Sports), ticket revenue and generous contributions from over 15,000 Seminole Booster members. Thanks to the generosity of our donors, fans, and corporate part ners, FSU is the top funded athletic department in the Atlantic Coast Conference and competes for conference and national championships in every sport. In fiscal year 2017-2018, Seminole Boosters supplemented the athletics operating budget by transferring $23 million to help cover the cost of scholarships, maintain and upgrade some of the best collegiate facilities in the nation and provide our student-athletes with academic and medical services that give them the winning edge in the classroom and in competition. Board of directors Executive Board Jimmy Graganella Chair Charlie Dudley Vice-Chair Parrish Owens Treasurer Anne Hamilton Secretary Richard McCullough University President Peter Collins Chair of the Board of Trustees Michael Alford President & CEO Clif Curry At-Large Delores Spearman At-Large Bill Stephenson At-Large Directors At-Large Diana Azor W.O. Bell Peter Boulware Kevin Carpenter Marilyn Cox Scott Darling Mary Demetree Craig Dewhurst Doug Dunlap Betsy Evans Ericka Franz Bill Hagen Rich Heffley Dan Hendrix Gina Hill Mark Hillis Nick Iarossi Moises Issa Mike Kosloske Beth Langford Pete Law Brett Lindquist Scott Madden John McCann Richard McMullen Teri Miller DeVoe Moore Brian Murphy Andy Norman Warner Peacock Craig Ramsey Mark Shelnutt Jim Steiner Jeff Stoops Mike Summey Philip Troyer Barry Vaughn Richard Welch Ex-Officio Members Richard McCullough University President Peter Collins Board of Trustees Chair Doug Russell 2nd Immediate Past Chair Nancy McKay Foundation Chair Designee Eleanor Connan Women's Athletics Representative Scott Wiegand Alumni Chair Mike Brady Athletic Board Designee Rick Oreair Varsity Club Designee Maya Hawat Student Booster Designee Jimmy Graganella Seminole Boosters Chair Charlie Dudley Seminole Boosters Vice Chair Michael Hartline Interim University VP for Advancement Michael Alford Vice President & Director of Athletics Chair Emeritus Kathy Atkins-Gunter, 2005 | Bob Lee Bannerman, 1952 | Tom Barron, 1984 | Hurley Booth, 1980 | Dennis Boyle, 1992 | Steve Brown, 2009 | Spencer Burress, 1955 | Bob Camp, 1979 | Joe Camps, 1997 | Bill Carraway, 1963 | Jim Carter, 1981 | Ken Cashin, 1989 | Bob Caton, 2008 | Raymond Cottrell, 2001 | Dave Cowens, 1973 | Bob Davis, 2019-2021 | Syde P. Deeb, 1962 | Carl Domino, 1995 | Bill Dubey, 1969 | Frank Fain, 1991 | Mike Fields, 1987 | Bob Fohl, 2003 | Andy Haggard, 1988 | Kim Hammond, 1972 | Bruce Harrell, 2012 | Mike Harrell, 2014 | Ed Haskell, Jr, 1965 | Sherman Henderson, 1998 | Charlie Hill, 1978 | Lou Hill, 1964, 74 | Ron Hobbs, 2002 | Jim Kirk, 1996 | Chris Kraft, 2004 | George Langford, 1976, 77, 85 | Lawton Langford, 1994 | W.S. "Bill" Lee, 1966 | Douglas Mannheimer, 1993 | Payne Midyette, Sr, 1956 | Russ Morcom, 2006, 07 | John Olson, 1982 | Bill Parker, 1986 | Frank Pope, 1967 | Doyle Pope, 1970, 75 | Theo Proctor, Jr, 1968 | David Rancourt, 2015 | Gene Ready, 2013 | Don Reinhard, 1999 | Charles Rosenberg, 1953, 54 | Doug Russell | Godfrey Smith, 1960 | Lomax Smith, 1983 | W.G. "Babe" Starry, 1958, 59, 61 | Brian Swain, 2010, 11 | Nylah Thompson, 2016 | Gary Thurston, 2017 | Gary Walsingham, 2000 | Herschel Williams, 1971 | Tommy Williams, 1990 | Albert Yates, 1957 Board Meetings Seminole Boosters, Inc. CEO Search Committee Meeting Date: June 2-3, 2022 Time: All Day Location: Tallahassee, FL Seminole Boosters, Inc. Board Of Directors Meeting Date: October 27-28, 2022 Time: Various Location: Tallahassee, FL Board Nominations Seminole Boosters is committed to the development of a large and diverse pool of candidates to serve as members of the Board of Directors. We are always accepting nominations and seeking potential candidates from the recommendations of the members of the Florida State University family. Candidates should demonstrate a passion for Florida State University and its athletics programs, a high level of integrity, and a willingness to make the time commitments associated with the At-Large position. It is not an express requirement that a candidate be a graduate or a former student of FSU; however, every proposed candidate must be a member of Seminole Boosters in good standing. If you would like to nominate a potential candidate, please complete the nomination form using the link below. In order for a candidate to be considered through this process, the Nominating Committee must receive your nomination form by March 30, 2022 to be considered for the July 2022 starting term. If your nominee is not selected, Seminole Boosters, Inc. will retain, for a reasonable period, a copy of your nomination form for future consideration. If you have any questions about the nomination process, please contact Kari Terezakis at KTerezakis@fsu.edu Thank you for your assistance with this effort. We look forward to receiving your nominations. Careers Client Services Review position specifications Apply now, email your cover letter and resume to BoostersHR@fsu.edu × Jimmy Graganella Chair Mr. Graganella graduated from Florida State University with a bachelor’s degree in criminology and was fortunate to play football for Coach Bobby Bowden 81-84. He is the President, CEO, and a founding shareholder of James Holding Company, Inc. He has 18 years of experience with a Fortune 500 insurance company, and now possesses over 37 years of experience directing all levels of the insurance industry. Graganella’s business skills, coupled with his risk management expertise, have resulted in him being recognized as an influential leader in the insurance industry. Graganella’s innovative business and legal strategy development have allowed him to gain and sustain competitive advantage – demonstrating proficiency in the areas of research, strategic planning, and coordination of acquisitions, mergers, and divestitures. His areas of expertise additionally include government relations, securities/employment law, contract negotiations, portfolio management and analysis, real estate investments, and transition leadership. Graganella was the President, CEO, and founding member of Capitol Preferred Insurance Company, Southern Fidelity Insurance Company, Southern Fidelity Property & Casualty, Southern Financial Insurance Group, National Consumer Title Insurance, and Omega National Agencies. Graganella is the owner of Graganella Insurance Agency, Inc., G & G Title Agency, Inc., Mom and Dad’s Italian Restaurant, The Blu Halo, and Killearn Country Club. Jimmy and his wife Lisa currently reside in Tallahassee, Florida. They have two FSU alumni children Nicole and Nick. Nicole and her husband Ryan Kelly both attended FSU, and Nicole was a member of the Golden Girls Dance Team. Nick and his wife Shelby are also both alumni of Florida State, where Nick played baseball for Coach Mike Martin. Jimmy and Lisa have 2 beautiful grandchildren Colton and Copland and awaiting the birth of their third grandchild Luca this fall. Jimmy’s hobbies include golf, hunting, fishing, and all things FSU. × Charlie Dudley Vice-Chair Charlie received his B.S. with a Major in Political Science and Minor in Sports Coaching; and a J.D. in law in 1993. He turned a college internship into a lobbying and legal career. He has owned and operated his own law firm since 1996 and began Floridian Partners lobbying and consulting firm, with multiple offices in Florida in 2000. Additionally, he owns and operates several other companies in law, consulting, marketing and real estate. Charlie and his wife Alison split their time between Tallahassee & Jupiter, Florida. They have two children: Chas, who is a junior at FSU, Business School, Finance & Marketing Major, ATO Fraternity and Emily, who is entering her senior year of high school at Maclay School. He took up tennis a few years ago and really enjoys getting out a few days a week and hitting the yellow ball. He recently decided to spend more time on golf. He enjoys all FSU sports, especially men’s basketball and tennis. He also enjoys consuming exceptional red wine. Charlie and Alison enjoy their time fishing, snorkeling and walking the beaches in Jupiter Island. × Parrish Owens Treasurer Parrish earned his B.S. in Marketing at Florida State College of Business in 2008. Currently is an executive at G&L Holdings – one of the largest privately held food ingredient suppliers in the United States. Other business interests include real estate, technology and a winery. Parrish and his wife Catherine "Cat" currently reside in Atlanta, GA. His hobbies include Florida State University and Seminole Boosters, philanthropy, hunting, fishing, golfing and traveling. He is also a 3rd generation male FSU College of Business graduate. × Anne Hamilton Secretary Anne Hamilton was just 10 years old when she started working in the hotel and hospitality industry, helping out at her family-owned hotels. She credits that childhood experience for setting her on the path to her position with The Walt Disney Company. Having amassed high-profile connections and industry networks, she is considered by colleagues to have set the gold standard in this regard. In her role as vice president for Global Travel, Hamilton provides strategic operational leadership for her teams who serve the needs of Disney’s traveling cast members worldwide. Her teams execute the ongoing management of commercial airlines, hotels and transportation vendor agreements. They drive the direction for the management of technology-enabled travel solutions and the overall maintenance of Disney’s travel policy, compliance and related reporting. Just prior taking on her position with the Global Travel team, Hamilton, who has been with Disney for 23 years, was vice president of Resort Sales and Services for Walt Disney Parks and Resorts. In recognition of her industry contributions, Hamilton was named an American Society of Association Executives Fellow and a Professional Convention Management Association Supplier of the Year. She also was named Florida State’s Dedman School of Hospitality Alumna of the Year for 2008 and received a 2019 Inspire Award for FSU Women of Distinction, sponsored by the FSU Alumni Association, Women for FSU and the Seminole Club of Greater Orlando. She is also a member of the FSU Alumni Association’s. Hamilton received her bachelor’s degree in hospitality management from Florida State and an MBA from Stetson University. × Richard McCullough University President Richard McCullough became the 16th president of Florida State University on Aug. 16, 2021, bringing more than 30 years of academic research and leadership experience to the role as well as a commitment to innovation, entrepreneurship, and diversity, equity and inclusion. Prior to joining FSU, McCullough had served as vice provost for research and professor of materials science and engineering at Harvard University since 2012. In this role, he oversaw the development, review and implementation of strategies, planning, and policies related to academic research. In addition, he led an office of Foundation and Corporate Engagement and assisted in the oversight of more than 25 interdisciplinary institutes, centers and initiatives across the university. During his tenure, McCullough successfully built and launched the new Harvard Data Science Initiative, a collaboration between 12 of the university’s schools and more than 120 faculty, which led to the creation of three new master’s programs and many new undergraduate courses. McCullough developed and launched a new structural biology program and cryo-electron microscope facility that partners Harvard Medical School with three Boston-area hospitals. He also led the development of a new $100 million, multi-institution collaboration to build the Advanced Biological Innovation and Manufacturing Center and Facility, which will be a hub for medical research and education, as well as economic and workforce development. Previously, McCullough spent 22 years at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, where he began his academic career as an assistant professor of chemistry in 1990 and became the Thomas Lord Professor of Chemistry in 2009. He was promoted to head of the chemistry department in 1998 and then served as dean of the Mellon College of Science from 2001 to 2007 before becoming the university’s vice president for research. McCullough, who holds multiple patents and is the founder of two companies, has a rich background in entrepreneurship and innovation. At Carnegie Mellon, he developed a vibrant innovation ecosystem, including the Greenlighting Start-ups Initiative that exponentially increased the generation of university spin-out companies and corporate engagement. In 2013, he was elected a fellow of the National Academy of Inventors. A staunch champion of diversity, McCullough created a diverse pipeline of Black/African American, Laxtinx and other underrepresented minority academics from both his research lab and as the founding creator of the Future Faculty Workshop: Diverse Leaders of Tomorrow, an annual workshop that helps diverse postdoctoral fellows and students obtain academic jobs. Now in its 15th year, the workshop has facilitated placing more than 50 underrepresented minority professors in the United States. McCullough is the author of numerous peer-reviewed articles and serves on the editorial boards of several academic journals, including Advanced Materials. He has been an innovation, entrepreneurship, and technology transfer advisor to Oxford University, Princeton University and Washington University at St. Louis. A first-generation college student from Mesquite, Texas, McCullough attended Eastfield Community College before earning a bachelor’s degree in chemistry from the University of Texas at Dallas in 1982 and a doctoral degree in organic chemistry from Johns Hopkins University in 1988. McCullough also spent two years as a postdoctoral fellow at Columbia University in New York. He and his wife, Jai Vartikar, have two children, Jason and Dylan, daughter-in-law, Sarah Christian, and two granddaughters, Gladys and Archer. × Peter Collins Chair of the Board of Trustees Peter Collins is Co-Founder and Managing Principal of Forge Capital Partners, LLC ("Forge"). Mr. Collins directs all private equity activities for Forge and is the CEO of Forge's real estate private equity fund business. Over the last 20 years, Mr. Collins has overseen more than $1.5 billion of real estate and corporate transactions including over eight million square feet of commercial and residential real estate development/acquisitions/dispositions. Peter is a former Trustee of the Florida State University (“FSU”) Foundation and recently completed a 2-year term as Chair of the FSU Endowment. Peter is a past Executive Committee member of the FSU College of Business Board of Governors. In 2010, Peter was appointed by the Governor and Cabinet and confirmed by the Florida Senate to the $200 billion State of Florida Pension Investment Advisory Council and recently ended a term as its Chair. In 2019, Peter was elected to the Board of the Florida Council of 100. Peter is a member of the Urban Land Institute and the International Council of Shopping Centers. An Eagle Scout, Mr. Collins is the past Southern Region, Area 4 (State of Florida) President and member of the Southern Region Executive Board of the Boy Scouts of America (“BSA”). Peter is currently President of the Greater Tampa Bay Area Council. Peter is a past member of the BSA National Foundation Board of Trustees and former Chair of the BSA National Foundation’s Investment Committee. Additionally, Peter is the recipient of the BSA’s prestigious Silver Beaver, Silver Antelope and National Outstanding Eagle Scout awards. Mr. Collins earned his Bachelor of Science in Finance as well as his MBA from Florida State University. Peter and his wife, Jennifer, live in Tampa, Florida and have four children. Mr. Collins is an avid golfer, hunter, and private pilot. × Clif Curry At-Large Clif earned his Bachelor’s Degree from FSU in 1979 and his Law Degree from Stetson in 1981. He is currently the President/Owner of the Curry Law Group, P.A. His areas of practice at complex family law, personal injury and civil litigation. He is currently representing the State of Florida in the OPIOID litigation against manufacturer, distributors and retailer of OPIOIDS. He has been very active in his community holding leadership position in the Brandon Chamber of Commerce, Kiwanis and others. Clif and his wife Teresa "Terry" currently reside in Bradenton, Florida. His hobbies include spending time with family and friends, FSU sports and traveling. He is actively involved in fundraising for the Trey Curry Foundation which helps children in their local area. × Delores Spearman At-Large Before graduating from Florida State in 1999 with a BA in History and a Masters in Historical Administration and Public History (2008), Delores was a practicing dental hygienist for twenty-three years. She is now a dedicated community volunteer. Delores has served on numerous boards and has been actively involved in the community for many years. Delores and her husband Guy currently reside in Rockledge, Florida. Delores loves to travel especially with the FSU Boosters. × Bill Stephenson At-Large Bill received his B.S. degree from FSU and is a graduate of Harvard Business School’s Advanced Management Program. In 2016, he was inducted into the FSU College of Business Hall of Fame. He is currently the CEO and Chairman of the Executive Bheffoard of DLL, an integrated financial solutions company with clients in 30 countries around the world. With over 30 years of vendor finance experience, Bill is a recognized industry expert. Bill and his wife, Tammy currently reside in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida. They have two children, Rebecca who is currently a student at FSU and Will who graduated from FSU College of Business. Bill’s hobbies include golf, hunting and fishing. × Diana Azor Director At-Large Diana is a retired entrepreneur in the Non-Emergency Transportation field where she successfully ran the family business for over twenty years. Her passion for service and accessibility for the elderly and disabled make her a vocal leader with regards to barriers in transportation and mobility services. Besides all of the things she does for the Seminole Boosters and Florida State, she is a founder and volunteer of the Memorial Hospital Foundation in South Florida. Diana and her husband Jorge currently reside in Pembroke Pines, FL and have two children, Katie and Jamie, both of which attended FSU. Her hobbies include golf and travel. × W.O. Bell Director At-Large W.O. attended Chipola College and Florida State (1966-1970) majoring in Political Science, Business Administration and History. He worked in banking, government, State Board of Administration and three national investment firms. He has been involved in the Seminole Boosters for over 35 years. He and his wife Aggie, also an FSU graduate, currently reside in Tallahassee, FL. They have 3 children: Son, Bill, an FSU grad and Platinum Chief, daughters Mary Holley and Katie are both FSU grads. They also have seven grandchildren. Two of their granddaughters are currently attending FSU. Haley is in Law School at FSU and Siena is a sophomore at FSU and the other five are eyeing Florida State degrees in the future. W.O. enjoys FSU sports, travel, history, golf, volunteering and landscape work. × Diana Azor Director At-Large Peter is well known as a first team All-America while playing football at FSU. He went on to play professionally for the Baltimore Ravens and in 1997 was named the NFL Defensive Rookie of the Year. He also won a Super Bowl Championship. Peter received his bachelor’s degree from FSU with a major in Management Information Systems. He is currently the Vice President of Legacy Toyota. He has been active in volunteer work as well. He has served on the Florida Board of Education. He also founded a private school, the Community Leadership Academy. × Kevin Carpenter Director At-Large Kevin earned his degree in business from FSU in 1989. While a student he worked for the Seminole Boosters. He is now the CEO and President of Advantus Corp. which is a diverse manufacturer of consumer products. He is also involved in real estate and development activities. Kevin and his wife Julie currently reside in Jacksonville, FL and have three children: Taylor (25) graduated from FSU, Alexis (23) graduated from FSU and Brianna (19) is currently a student at USF. Kevin's enjoys attending FSU sporting events, travel and auto racing. × Marilyn Cox Director At-Large Dr. Marilyn Cox specializes in cardiovascular disease and clinical cardiac electrophysiology. Her certifications include the National Board of Medical Examiners, the American Board of Internal Medicine in Internal Medicine and Cardiovascular Disease with added qualifications in Clinical Cardiac Electrophysiology. She has performed funded research as well as presentations at both national and international meetings. She currently practices at Southern Medical Group, P.A., and holds privileges at Tallahassee Memorial HealthCare. × Scott Darling Director At-Large Scott received his undergraduate degree from FSU in finance and real estate. He then went on to receive his law degree from the University of Southern California. He is currently President of American Realty Advisors, an SEC registered commercial real estate investment manager headquartered in downtown Los Angeles. Scott and his wife Marion whom he met while they were at FSU currently reside in La Canada, California. They have two daughters, Dawn and Kristy and one granddaughters who has already attended FSU Football games. He enjoys golf and all things FSU. Scott and Marion travel from Los Angeles to Tallahassee several times a year to attend football games. × Mary Demetree Director At-Large Mary graduated from the University of Alabama with a degree in general business administration. She currently serves as chairwoman and owner of Demetree Global, Deme¬tree Real Estate Services, and Demetree Builders (a 65 year old company founded by her father). She also serves as chairwoman of the William C. Demetree, Jr. Foundation which serves adults with learn¬ing disabilities, assistance to children and animals in need and the rights of unborn children. Mary is very active in her communities. She serves or has served on many boards, including, Trustee of Ave Maria University, the Orlando Chamber of Commerce, Young Life of Central Florida and the Winter Park Hospital Board. Her companies have been recognized as one of the Top 100 Companies for Working Families and she has been been recognized as one of the Most Powerful People in Orlando numerous times. Mary currently resides in Winter Park, Florida and has one daughter, Sara who recently graduated from FSU. × Craig Dewhurst Director At-Large Craig received his degree from FSU in 1991. He was a member of Delta Tau Delta fraternity. After graduating became a manager for State Farm for 10 years prior to becoming an Agent. He has owned a State Farm Agency at the World Golf Village for 20 years. He has been very active with FSU, both as a large contributor himself and serving as a mentor to many FSU graduates as well as recruiting many high level Booster members. He has also helped Max Zahn run the Booster Spring Tour stop in Jacksonville for 25 years and two FSU golf team fundraising tournaments at his home course. Craig and his wife Michelle currently reside in St. Augustine, FL and have three children, Kenzie, Zoe and Connor. He enjoys spending time with his family and when he has the chance, he enjoys offshore fishing, snow skiing and playing golf. × Doug Dunlap Director At-Large Doug is a native of Tallahassee and a veteran of the U.S. Marines and Vietnam. He received his bachelor’s degree from FSU in 1974 with a major in accounting. He is the CEO and majority owner of Syn-Tech Systems, a position he has held since 1989. The company is a computer engineering and manufacturing company specializing in petroleum fueling automation equipment. The company employs 189 people and has annual revenues of around $45 million. The company has won numerous awards including Tallahassee Small Business of the Year in 2004, 2012 and 2014. It was also recognized as One of the Best Companies to Work For by Florida Trend Magazine in 2010. Doug was inducted into the FSU College of Business Hall of Fame in 2017. Doug and his wife Doris, former Senior V.P. Tallahassee Democrat currently reside in Tallahassee, FL and have three children, Shane Smith, Sara Dunlap and Scott Dunlap all of which are FSU graduates. Doug has followed FSU athletics since childhood, he has been a season ticket holder since 1974, and in fact has attended 45 consecutive FSU-Florida football games (through 2018). × Betsy Evans Director At-Large Betsy received her Bachelors and Masters in Accounting from FSU and then worked for Arthur Andersen from 1997-2002. She joined Deloitte Tax in Atlanta and is currently a partner in the Mergers & Acquisitions Transaction Services group. She is very involved with FSU as a major donor to the Boosters as well as supporting the College of Business, Student Affairs, the Marching Chiefs and the FSU Student Emergency Funds. This Spring she has served as a mentor in the FSU College of Business Seneff Honor’s Program. × Ericka Franz Director At-Large Coming. × Bill Hagen Director At-Large Bill received his degree with a major in finance from FSU. He is a Senior Vice President with Raymond James and has been a financial advisor for 37 years. He is active in the Tallahassee community including being a founding board member of the The Tallahassee Sports Council and also its Past Chairman. He is also active with the Chamber of Commerce and a graduate of Leadership Tallahassee (Class 5). Bill and his wife Debbie currently reside in Tallahassee, FL. They have 6 children: Katie and husband Kyle (both FSU), Lauren (Alabama), Austin (FSU), Nicole (FSU), Jackson (currently FSU), and Harris (Maclay School). Bill like to hunt and fish in spare time and loves everything FSU. × Anne Hamilton Director At-Large Anne was approved by our Board earlier in the year and attended her first board meetings virtually. She received her undergraduate degree from FSU with a major in hospitality management and an MBA from Stetson University. Anne has worked for The Walt Disney Company for twenty-three years and currently holds the position of Vice President, Global Travel. Prior to taking over her current position, she was Vice President of Resort Sales and Services for Walt Disney Parks and Resorts. Anne has been very involved in FSU. She was named FSU Dedman School of Hospitality Alumna of the Year in 2008 and received the 2019 Inspire Award for FSU Women of Distinction. She has served on the Board of the FSU Foundation, been inducted in the FSU Alumni Association Circle of Gold and received numerous awards in her professional career. × Rich Heffley Director At-Large Rich received his bachelor’s degree from Eastern Illinois Univeristy, he master’s degree from FSU and has completed some of his coursework for a PhD at FSU. Rich also taught a masters level class at FSU in Lobbying. Rich is regarded as a leading republican political strategist and lobbyist. He has been in the business for over 35 years in both Illinois and Florida. Rich and his wife Nancy currently reside in Panama City Beach, Florida. Their son Drew and his wife Brooke are both FSU graduates. Their daughter Katie went to Rollins College (but she is dating the former FSU great Ryan Izzo). Rich and Nancy like to travel, they are sports enthusiasts and Rich loves the game of golf. × Dan Hendrix Director At-Large Dan served as president and CEO of Interface Inc., a $1 billion, global manufacturer of modular commercial and residential carpet and broadloom carpet from 2001 to 2017, when he retired. Under his leadership, Interface helped to create a viable global market for modular carpet – a segment of the market once considered no more than a niche business. He remains chairman of the Board of Directors for Interface. Dan graduated from FSU, ultimately receiving a BS in accounting from the College of Business in 1977. He was also a member of the FSU chapter of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He and his wife Elizabeth "Betsy", also a graduated of FSUs College of Business, currently reside in Atlanta, Georgia. They have two children, John who also attended FSU College of Business and daughter, Lauren. × Gina Hill Director At-Large Coming. × Mark Hillis Director At-Large Mark earned his Bachelors Degree with a major in Finance from FSU. He then earned his Juris Doctor from Woodrow Wilson College of Law. Mark is a retired major of the U.S. Marine Corps. He retired after 33 years with SunTrust Bank and still stays involved by serving on their Board. Mark has literally done everything at FSU. He has served on nearly every board at FSU, including serving multiple terms on the FSU Board of Trustees. Just a few of his many awards include Alumni Association Circle of Gold, FSU Business School Hall of Fame, FSU Faculty Senate Mores Torch Award and Southern Scholarship Foundation Emeritus Member of the Board of Directors. Mark is married to Nan who has served as the FSU Foundation representative to the Boosters for several years. Mark and Nan are members of the Seminole Boosters MICCO Society. × Nick Iarossi Director At-Large Nick received his undergraduate degree from FSU in 1998 and his law degree in 2000. Nick was student body president. Nick is a co-founding member of Capital City Consulting. He has worked on local, state, and federal government policy issues for over 20 years. He has recently named as one of the 100 most influential people in Florida by Influence Magazine. He is considered the best in his field representing clients in financial services, insurance, environmental, gaming, retail, education, alcohol, information technology, tobacco and procurement. Nick and his wife Debbie, also a graduate of FSU, currently reside in Tallahassee, FL with their two daughters Kayla and Ella. Besides all things FSU, Nick is an amateur race car driver. × Moises Issa Director At-Large Moises received his undergraduate degree in biological sciences in 1992 from FSU. He graduated from medical school in 1996 from Ross University School of Medicine internal medicine with a fellow in geriatrics. Moises specializes in treating diabetes, hypertension, rheumatoid arthritis, and pain management. He also does charity work with orphans in Nicaragua. He currently resides in Fort Lauderdale, FL with this three children, Rebecca, Robert and Camille. Moises enjoys sports, boating and philanthropy. × Mike Kosloske Director At-Large Mike graduated from FSU with his bachelor’s degree in Risk Management/Insurance. He is the Founder and Chief of Product Innovation for Health Insurance Innovations. Previously served as President and CEO since the company’s inception in 2008 but has since stepped down and serves as a Director of the company. Wife Lori also works at Health Insurance Innovations, Inc. as a Chief Broker Compliance Officer. Also owns the restaurant The Lure, and is partnering with Joe Madden’s new restaurant in Chicago. Mike and his wife Lori have two children together, and he has three from his first marriage. Oldest daughter graduated from Wake Forest in 2018. × Beth Langford Director At-Large Beth earned her Bachelors Degree in Communications/Public Relations from FSU. She began her career with the Florida Petroleum Marketers Association. She then worked in the public relations with the Florida Association of School Administrators and the Florida School Board Association. She has remained active in her sorority, Kappa Delta, where she has held numerous offices in both the local alumnus chapter as well as national offices. She currently remains active locally at Trinity United Methodist Church and Maclay School. She has served on the boards of United Way, Junior League, Friends of LeRoy Collins Leon County Public Library and the Brogan Museum of Art and Sciences as well as many others. Beth is married to our Past Chair Lawton Langford and they have two children. × Pete Law Director At-Large Pete is an Attorney and Senior Principal of Law & Moran Attorneys at Law. The firm is a six-lawyer trial firm dedicated to the representation of individuals who have suffered injuries and death due to the negligence of others. Mr. Law has been recognized by various independent surveys as one of Georgia's top trial lawyers and is annually selected as one of Georgia's Top 100 Lawyers. His main areas of practice include automobile accidents, trucking accidents, premises liability, negligent security, and virtually all types of cases involving injury or business torts. Mr. Law has been counsel for the plaintiff in approximately 100 recoveries each exceeding one million dollars, including dozens of multi-million-dollar jury verdicts, as well as more than 200 recoveries exceeding $100,000. In addition to trying cases, he regularly speaks at Continuing Legal Education (CLE) seminars required of all Georgia attorneys. Pete and wife, Agnes, currently reside in Atlanta, Ga and have five children together. He graduated from FSU with a bachelors in marketing and later got his Juris Doctor at Emory University. × Brett Lindquist Director At-Large Brett received his undergraduate degree from FSU with majors in finance and real estate. He is the founder and CEO of the Mortgage Firm which is a residential mortgage lender in the Southeast. They close over $2 billion in loans per year. Brett and his wife Cindy, who also graduated from FSY and was a Golden Girl, reside in Orlando, FL. They have two children: son, Cole, an FSU graduate and daughter, Kendall. Brett loves to travel, swimming and golf. You will find Cindy and Brett at many FSU activities. They love everything FSU. × Scott Madden Director At-Large Scott graduated from FSU with a bachelor’s where he concentrated in accounting, purchasing and marketing. After graduation Scott went to work for a large national IT staffing company and later co-founded Insight Global in 2001. The company is a premier staffing agency and managed services provider. Scott and his wife Maribeth currently reside in Atlanta, GA and have two sons, John and Ryan. Scott loves the game of golf as well as fishing. He enjoys woodworking and traveling with the family. × John McCann Director At-Large John McCann grew up in Northeast Ohio but made Tallahassee his permanent home after attending Florida State University. Mr. McCann is the founder and CEO of JDM & Associates which is an insurance brokerage firm that specializes in professional and management liability solutions. He is married to Beth McCann whom he met while at Florida State and they have two bright and athletic boys, Patrick and Connor. While not working and supporting organizations such as Seminole Boosters and the Biletnikoff Foundation, the McCann's enjoy playing golf, skiing, hiking, and rafting all as a family. × Richard McMullen Director At-Large Richard has been a great friend and supporter of Florida State University and the Seminole Boosters for many years. He spends his retirement being active in the FSU community. Richard and his wife, Gwen currently reside in Tallahassee, FL. His hobbies include golf, traveling, and attending FSU sporting events, especially football and softball. × Teri Miller Director At-Large Teri attended FSU in the 1970s. She has a degree in business management and in 2015 she was awarded an honorary master’s degree in business. Teri has been retired for 5 years after working in management in some of the corporate giants such as IBM, Samsung Electronics, Prudential Insurance and Merck. Teri is a huge men’s basketball and women’s soccer fan and she very much enjoys traveling to away events. She has attended games in St. Thomas, Jamaica, Nashville and Hartford just to name a few. Terry is a MICCO and also just increased her annual membership to Platinum Chief in response to our Renaissance Campaign. Teri’s uncle is the FSU great Ron Sellers who was very influential in her attending Florida State. She currently resides in Jupiter, Florida with her two Jack Russell terriers, Gigi and Riggs and a Lusitano gelding named Bossa Nova. She competes in agility with Riggs and dressage with Bossa Nova. × DeVoe Moore Director At-Large DeVoe has been involved in numerous land acquisitions and has been self-employed with various businesses over the years. Some of his businesses have included Fleet Supply, Inc., Florida Georgia White Truck Sales, ABAC Auto Parts, Baker Alford Auto Parts, Certified Automotive Warehouse, Airport Industrial Park, Fort Knox Storage, Cross Creek Golf Course and the Tallahassee Automobile Museum. Through the years, he has served and continues to serve the local community through his involvement in his church and many different organizations. He also serves as a board member of several community foundations and has been honored in a variety of ways by various organizations. Some of the most recent honors include, helping to establish the DeVoe L. Moore Center in the College of Social Sciences in 1996. The Center’s purpose is to help students study how government rules and regulations affect free enterprise and property rights. He has also provided numerous endowed scholarships to assist athletes and other students. In 2010, DeVoe was honored to have the University Center building named after him as part of the expansion of Doak Campbell Stadium at Florida State University. Devoe and his wife Shirley currently reside in Tallahassee, FL and have two daughters and six grandchildren. In his spare time he enjoys working his farm which includes water buffalo and goats, working his pastureland, and speaking to community groups and associations about free enterprise and the museum. In addition to these interests, DeVoe’s businesses could certainly be considered 'hobbies' to him. × Brian Murphy Director At-Large Brian earned his bachelor’s degree in accounting and finance from FSU. Brian is the founder and CEO of ReliaQuest, one of the fastest growing companies in the cybersecurity industry. It's mission is to fortify the world's most trust brands against cyber threats. The company is headquartered in Tampa with security operations centers in Las Vegas, Salt Lake City and also in Dublin, Ireland. Brian and his wife Renee currently reside in Tampa, Florida with their two sons Devin and Parker. Reading and boating are Brian's major hobbies. × Andy Norman Director At-Large Andy received his undergraduate degree from FSU with a major in Politcal Science. He is the Managing Partner of GMF Construction. GMF is an AISC certified, state-of-the-art steel fabrication facility and structural steel erection company. They operate out of a 136,000 SF shop and have a collection of manufacturing equipment that allows them to complete almost any project entirely in-house. GMF has been a part of some high-profile projects including the expandsion of the Tampa Bay Times Forum, the Jefferson Pump Station Lake Pontchartrain Levy Rebuild in New Orleans, and the Harry Potter at Islands of Advanture Universal Studios in Orlando. Andy and his wife Sheryl met at Florida State University. They reside in Lakeland, Florida with their 4 children; Libby, Maggy, Stuart and Charley. × Warner Peacock Director At-Large Warner Peacock is the Chairman and CEO of Peacock Automotive, a group of 17 dealerships located in Savannah, Ga.; Orlando, Fla.; Hardeeville, S.C., and Columbia, S.C. In addition to his expanding dealership holdings, Warner has invested in and developed properties for both himself and others all over the Southeast including car and motorcycle dealerships, casual dining restaurants, bank branches, residential communities, shopping centers and lifestyle properties. A native of Tallahassee, Fla., Warner earned a degree in business with a major in accounting from Florida State University's College of Business. Warner resides in Palmetto Bluff, S.C., and Windermere, Fla., with his wife, Mary Kaye. They have two children who live and work in New York City, and four white labs who live at home. × Craig Ramsey Director At-Large Craig Ramsey recently retired as the managing director for Accenture’s Atlanta office, where he led over 2,200 professionals and was responsible for managing the local business, expanding the company’s civic presence and fostering employee engagement. In addition to serving as the head of the Atlanta office, one of Accenture’s largest locations in the United States, Craig was also a member of Accenture’s North American Leadership Team. Throughout his more than 30-year tenure with Accenture, Craig counseled many major clients across multiple industry segments, including Communications, Media, Electronics & High Tech, Financial Services, Products, Retail, Consumer Packaged Goods, Public Service, Health Care, Logistics, Travel & Transportation and Utilities. He has led and conducted various types of Strategy, Systems Integration, Technology, Process Improvement, Merger & Acquisition and Outsourcing projects across several business functions, including Finance & Accounting, Sales & Marketing, Product Development, Customer Relationship Management, Call Centers, Billing, Supply Chain, Procurement, Human Resources and IT. Craig and his wife, Mary, have four children. He graduated from Florida State University with his bachelor’s degree in Risk Management & Insurance and his Master’s in Business Management. × Mark Shelnutt Director At-Large Mark received this undergraduate degree from FSU with majors in finance and accounting. He went on to obtain his JD from Stetson. Mark was the Chief Assistant State Attorney for the 5th District of Florida before opening his private practice in Family & Criminal Law in 1998. Mark and his wife Linda currently reside in Ocala, FL. They have six children: Lindsay, Erin, MacKenzie, Alex, Brandon & Courtney. MacKenzie and her husband Justin Colquitt both graduated from FSU. MacKenize played saxophone as a member of the Marching Chiefs and has gone on to obtain her masters degree from FSU in 2018. Mark’s free time is anything but free. It is filled with tennis, golf, fishing, scuba diving, music, grandchildren and travel. Mark loves going to see his son, Alex, in concert whenever his band, A Day to Remember, is playing at a venue close to home. Mark and Linda enjoy all things FSU and are very proud of their alma mater. × Jim Steiner Director At-Large Jim is a real estate developer in the Florida Panhandle. Jim is the former part-owner of Abbott Realty/ResortQuest which was a large scale vacation home rental property management company in Destin, San Destin, and 30A. He is still involved in the real estate industry but on a smaller scale. Jim graduated from Florida State University with a bachelors in Hospitality Management. He is very involved with the Seminole Boosters and enjoys traveling. × Jeff Stoops Director At-Large Jeff earned his Bachelor’s Degree in Political Science and his Law Degree from FSU. Jeff has had two jobs since his graduation from FSU. He started his career as a first year lawyer with the Gunster Law Firm in West Palm Beach and became a full-equity partner with the firm. In 1997 Jeff joined SBA Communications Corporation as General Counsel. He has been the company CEO since 2002. SBA owns and operates over 30,000 wireless communication sites in 14 countries and employs about 1,500. Total revenue in 2019 is expected to be about $2 billion. The company is a member of the S&P 500. Jeff’s leadership has resulted in Jeff being the recipient of numerous awards, including Florida Atlantic University’s Business Leader of the Year, the Sun-Sentinel’s Excalibur Award and the South Florida Business Journal’s CEO of the Year. Jeff has served on many boards. Currently he serves as Chairman of the Raymond F. Kravis Center for the Performing Arts. Jeff and his wife Aggie, who graduated from FSU with a B.S. and a Masters Degree in Social work currently split their time between West Palm Beach, FL and Kiawah Island, SC. They have four children: Lauren (33), Andrew (30), twins Tim and Dan (26). Jeff and Aggie also have one grandson, Harrison who is nine months old. Jeff likes to fish, shooting sporting clays, golf and all things FSU. Jeff and Aggie are very fortunate to be able to spend a lot of time in philanthropic activities. They started the Stoops Family Foundation in 2015 to support children. × Mike Summey Director At-Large Mr. Summey has been an entrepreneur since his 20's, having started his own billboard sign company with just $300. Among his many accomplishments in the outdoor advertising field, he invented and patented the single pole construction used throughout the world today and designed the first fully integrated computer software for the industry. In the 1970s his account advised Mr. Summey to start diversifying his investments and recommended real estate. This lead to him sell his company and retire off of his real estate investments, which led him to create American Eagle Investments, LLC. He has written four best-selling financial books as part of his “Weekend Millionaire” series, and produced an audio program on investments, and he recently published a new title, the Financial Security Bible: How to Build Wealth and Be Happy. Part memoir and part self-help book, it details his experiences over the years, what he learned from those experiences—including the failures—and how others can learn from their own. It’s a book that weaves personal tales of inspiration with practical instruction on how others can strive to get ahead. Mike currently resides in Asheville, North Carolina. He and his late wife, Linda have two sons: Jason and Matt. In his spare time, he enjoys flying his plane and hunting. × Philip Troyer Director At-Large Phil earned his AA degree from Chipola Jr. College, his bachelor’s degree from FSU, his MD degree from UF and also trained in internal medicine and cardiovascular areas at the University of Virginia. He practiced medicine for 26 years. Phil and his wife Deirdre currently reside in Thomasville, GA. They have three children: Daughter, Mary Hansen; daughter, Julia Florack (FSU grad); and son William. Besides being big FSU athletic fans, they operate a small farm that includes pasture and beef cattle management. They love gardening and Phil is a first responder/fire fighter with the local volunteer fire department. × Bary Vaughn Director At-Large Barry currently serves as Vice Chairman of the Board of The Suddath Companies. He joined Suddath in 1974. While serving as CEO he oversaw growth of nearly 300%. He also serves as Chairman of the Board of Unigroup, LLC, the nation’s largest household goods and logistics transportation company. He has served on the Jacksonville Chamber of Commerce Board of Governors and many charitable organizations, including Operation New Hope and Metro Kids Connection. Barry and his wife Patti currently reside in Jacksonville, Florida. They have two sons and a daughter-in-law. Their son Eric received his undergraduate degree from FSU and then received his law degree from Stetson. They also have five grandchildren who keep them very busy. In addition to being a big FSU fan since 1974, Barry loves anything with wheels. He is the owner of Vaughn Motorgroup of Jacksonville. He still holds his private pilot’s license as well. × Richard Welch Director At-Large After graduating from FSU Richard then received his Masters of Business Degree from Duke. He worked in several executive positions at hospitals and health systems and sub¬sequently started a hospitalist physician company which was sold to a national provider. Currently Richard is founder, president and CEO of a national medical professional liability company, AMS RRG, Inc. as well as AMS Management Group. They provide medical liability insurance to over 3,000 physicians throughout the United States. Richard and his wife Christine, also an FSU graduate, currently reside in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. They have two sons: Alexander (24) who just graduated from FSU and Ryan (21) who will graduate from FSU in the Spring of 2020. Both majored in business. In addition to being a huge FSU fan, Richard and Christine enjoy boating, deep sea fishing and traveling with their family. Richard is also an avid runner. × Michael Alford Vice President & Director of Athletics | michael.alford@fsu.edu Michael Alford, who has a remarkably broad-based career with championship organizations including serving as CEO and President of Seminole Boosters, Inc., was named Vice President and Director of Athletics at Florida State University on December 9, 2021. During his 26 years in intercollegiate athletics and professional sports, Alford has held positions with the Dallas Cowboys, the University of Alabama, the University of Oklahoma, the University of Southern California, the Cincinnati Bengals and was Associate Vice President and Director of Athletics at Central Michigan University from 2017-2020. Under Alford’s leadership since 2020, Seminole Boosters added over 2,000 new annual members, raised $15 million towards a new football operations center bringing the total commitments to over $55 million, and conceived and launched concepts to dramatically improve the fan experience at Doak Campbell Stadium. Prior to his arrival at Florida State, Alford served as Associate Vice President and Director of Athletics at Central Michigan University from 2017-2020. He is credited with leading Central Michigan during the most successful fundraising period in its athletics history. Notably, Alford hired eight coaches at Central Michigan, four of whom went on to win conference coach of the year honors in their first two seasons. Alford also guided the renegotiation of CMU Athletics’ apparel contract which resulted in a 600 percent increase in revenue, spearheaded an all-time high in Chippewa Athletic Fund memberships and oversaw the department’s all-time fundraising record in 2018-2019 that eclipsed the mark set in 2017-2018 by 50 percent. He also spearheaded the fundraising and project oversight for the Chippewa Champions Center which was completed in 2021. From 2012 to 2017, Alford was the Senior Associate Athletic Director for Development and Administration at the University of Oklahoma where he oversaw the Sooner Club, the principal fundraising arm of OU Athletics. The Sooner Club set annual giving records and increased membership to an all-time high under his leadership. He also played an integral role in the $160 million capital campaign for the renovation of the Gaylord Family – Oklahoma Memorial Stadium and the university’s football facility. In addition, Alford oversaw the men’s basketball program, which advanced to the NCAA Final Four in 2016, the men’s tennis program, which finished as runners up for the NCAA Championship three times as well as the Sooner’s women’s tennis program. Before joining Oklahoma, Alford was Senior Director of Corporate Partnerships and Sales for the Dallas Cowboys (2008-2012). With the Cowboys, he cultivated corporate relationships that resulted in over $400 million in contractual revenue for the club. In his role, he managed all aspects of programming for Cowboys Stadium. Prior to joining the Cowboys, Alford was the General Manager of Crimson Tide Sports Marketing at the University of Alabama (2004 to 2008). Crimson Tide Sports was responsible for the management of the media rights for Alabama. He provided oversight for all aspects of sales and marketing, including corporate sponsorships, radio and television, sports marketing, and the internet. He was also involved in contract design, negotiations and hiring of coaches, and the management and enhancement of ancillary revenue streams – including licensed apparel, merchandising contracts and concessions. Alford also worked at ABC Broadcasting in Los Angeles, where he provided oversight of sports sales for both the Anaheim Angels and Los Angeles Kings radio networks. Before ABC, he was Associate Athletics Director at the University of Southern California, where he oversaw all aspects of marketing, corporate sales and media contract negotiations. Alford’s first position in professional sports was Corporate Sales Executive with the Cincinnati Bengals. In this role, he was actively involved in all facets of the planning, construction and corporate sponsorships for Paul Brown Stadium. In addition, he provided oversight for Ticket Marketing, Group Sales and Hospitality. His first position in Intercollegiate Athletics was at the University of Cincinnati as Assistant Director of Marketing. Alford played baseball at Mississippi State before transferring to UAB, where he earned a bachelor’s degree in Communication in 1993. He received a master’s in Athletics Administration from the University of Arkansas in 1995. Alford is married to Laura, a collegiate volleyball student-athlete at Hawaii and former Division I head volleyball coach. They have three daughters Audrey, Ashley and Anna Leigh. @SeminoleAlford Useful links About us Our Story Meet the Staff Board of Directors Unconquered Magazine Internships & Careers Annual Giving Annual Membership Coaches Clubs Student Boosters Varsity Club Legacy Walk Bricks Leadership Giving Scholarship Endowment Covid-19 Fund Athletic Director's Fund Making Your Gift Impact & Recognition Tickets & Events Upcoming Events Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Softball Seminole Boosters, Inc. 225 Champions Way University Center C Suite C-5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 United States of America seminoleboosters@fsu.edu (850) 644-3484 Federal Tax ID 59-1561180 501(c)(3) Nonprofit © Copyright Seminole Boosters, Inc. 2021. All rights reserved. US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy