Skip to main content Live Chat Apply Live Chat Menu About Our Programs About University of Kansas Meet The Leadership Meet Our Instructors Location & Schedule Programs Coding Program Curriculum Data Program Curriculum Cyber Program Curriculum Tech Project Mgmt Program Curriculum Experience Overview Student Support Career Services In The Classroom Testimonials FAQ Blog Apply Get Program Info LEARN TO CODE KU Coding Boot Camp equips students with the key skills for full-stack web development through dynamic classes. LEARN MORE CODING DATA ANALYTICS CYBERSECURITY Tech Project ManagementMgmt VIEW ALL PROGRAMS VIEW ALL PROGRAMS Enrolling Now Coding • 06/06/22: Part-Time (24 weeks) Data • 06/27/22: Part-Time (24 weeks) Cyber • 06/13/22: Part-Time (24 weeks) Tech Project Mgmt • 09/06/22: Part-Time (18 weeks) Contact Admissions Coding: (913) 439-1919 Data: (913) 956-0960 Cyber: (913) 871-7981 Tech PM: (913) 439-1919 About the University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a major comprehensive research and teaching university. The university’s mission is to lift students and society by educating leaders, building healthy communities and making discoveries that change the world. The KU Edwards Campus is KU’s campus in Overland Park. Why Get Hands-On Training at University of Kansas? KU Boot Camps equip you with the essential skills to help guide you down a path to success in today’s digital world. With strategically engineered curricula, face-to-face interaction, and knowledgeable instructors, you’ll receive a comprehensive learning experience. You will build an in-depth portfolio of projects and applications in our coding and data analytics programs to demonstrate your working knowledge. You will tap into KU Boot Camps’ extensive career support and gain access to a wide array of professional development resources. Our programs offer a part-time schedule, allowing you to advance your skills without leaving work. You will receive a Certificate of Completion from the University of Kansas Professional & Continuing Education. *The material covered in these courses is subject to change due to market demand. Class Curriculum Options Our boot camps cover the most in-demand skills across: Coding Boot Camp Data Analytics Boot Camp Cybersecurity Boot Camp Tech Project Management Boot Camp University of Kansas Boot Camps are offered through University of Kansas Lifelong & Professional Education in partnership with Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. About Trilogy Education Services Trilogy Education is a workforce accelerator that empowers the world’s leading universities to prepare professionals for high-growth careers in the digital economy. Thousands of people around the globe have completed Trilogy-powered programs, and more than 2,000 companies — including 50% of the Fortune 100 — employ them. What You Will Learn Whether you choose to dive into web development, data analytics, cybersecurity, or tech project management students learn the key skills to make their mark in the industry. Students gain access to career services including mock interviews, portfolio reviews, recruiting, soft-skills training, and more to help equip them for success in the job search. Students participate in experiential learning opportunities, providing access to new employment possibilities. What Graduates Receive A robust set of hard and soft skills to help you stand out in today’s market. A Certificate of Completion from University of Kansas Lifelong & Professional Education, showcasing your achievements to potential employers. First-hand experience and a strong portfolio of applications and projects built through hands-on experience, demonstrating your coding, data analytics, or tech project management skills. Want to take a deeper look at the University of Kansas Boot Camps? Explore KU Coding Boot Camp, KU Data Analytics Boot Camp, KU Cybersecurity Boot Camp, or KU Technology Project Management Boot Camp. Hear what our students and alumni have to say by reading our reviews. Get Program Info First Name Last Name Email Phone Submit By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. The following requires your attention: Choose Program Next Back Online or In-Person? Next Back Choose Program Next Back Campus Next Back Choose Program Type Next Back Choose Start Date Next Back First Name Next Back Last Name Next Back Email Next Back Phone By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. Submit Back 0% Are you over the age of 18? Yes No Next Back Zip / Postal Code Next Back Highest level of education? Highest level of education? Some High School High School Diploma or GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Some graduate coursework Graduate Degree Prefer not to say Next Back Preferred Contact Method How do you prefer to be contacted? Phone Call Email Next Back How soon do you want to start? Immediately Within 6 months In 6-12 months In a year or more Next Back I want to I want to... Which best describes your goal? Start a new career Switch career path Advance current career Start/Grow business Prefer not to say Other Launch a new career Change my career path Further my career Become an entrepreneur Recent graduate, First job Prefer not to say Other Next Back About Programs Experience FAQ Blog Apply Online Wichita Overland Park Kansas City Olathe Topeka Lawrence Shawnee Manhattan Lenexa This program is offered through University of Kansas Lifelong & Professional Education Powered by Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. Contact KU Coding Boot Camp at (913) 439-1919 Contact KU Data Analytics Boot Camp at (913) 956-0960 Contact KU Cybersecurity Boot Camp at (913) 439-1919 Contact KU Technology Project Management Boot Camp at (913) 439-1919 Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to attend University of Kansas sponsored events. If you require a reasonable accommodation in order to participate in this event, please contact Student Services at least four weeks before the class begins at studentservices@bootcampspot.com. Terms & Conditions | Privacy/Your Privacy Rights | Cookie Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Manage Consent Preferences Share My Data with Third Parties for Personalized Advertising Share My Data with Third Parties for Personalized Advertising We share information with business partners to provide personalized online advertising. Under the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), some of this data sharing may be broadly considered a "sale" of information. Except for this type of sharing, we do not sell your information. You may opt out of these "sales" under the CCPA. Your selection is saved to this browser, on this device. If you clear your browser cookies, you will need to opt out of "sales" again. To learn more about 2U's use of your personal data, please see our Privacy Policy. Save & Close