Live Chat Icon Live Chat Get Boot Camp Info First Name Last Name Email Phone Submit By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. The following requires your attention: Choose Boot Camp Next Back Online or In-Person? Next Back Choose Boot Camp Next Back Campus Next Back Choose Boot Camp Type Next Back Choose Start Date Next Back First Name Next Back Last Name Next Back Email Next Back Phone By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. Submit Back 0% Are you over the age of 18? Yes No Next Back Zip / Postal Code Next Back Highest level of education? Highest level of education? Some High School High School Diploma or GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Some graduate coursework Graduate Degree Prefer not to say Next Back Preferred Contact Method How do you prefer to be contacted? Phone Call Email Next Back How soon do you want to start? Immediately Within 6 months In 6-12 months In a year or more Next Back I want to I want to... Which best describes your goal? Start a new career Switch career path Advance current career Start/Grow business Prefer not to say Other Launch a new career Change my career path Further my career Become an entrepreneur Recent graduate, First job Prefer not to say Other Next Back Which Tech Track interests you? Which Tech Track interests you? Cloud Computing Advanced Front End Advanced Back End Next Back Columbia Engineering Coding Boot Camp Become a Web Developer in 24 weeks An innovative online learning experience, teaching the most in-demand coding skills To speak to an admissions officer, call (646) 870-1598 Duration 12 or 24 weeks Program Cost $13,995 Flexible Payment Interest-free payment plans Our Classroom Comes to You Advance or change your career, from anywhere. 1 2 3 4 5 6 Marketable Skills Learn HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Express.js, React.js, Node.js, Database Theory, MongoDB, MySQL, Command Line, Git, and more.* Innovative Instruction Gain in-demand full stack skills through a blend of engaging online content and live, instructor-led virtual classes designed to work with your unique schedule. Supplemental Learning Gain access to continuation courses that cover additional technologies, including Python, Java, C#, and Amazon Web Services. Flexible Schedule Study part-time and work on portfolio projects through a combination of guided, skills-based activities, text-based readings, and engaging videos. Practice material on your own schedule each week. 1:1 Support Get support when you need it. Our virtual classroom allows you to ask questions live, get help from instructors and Teaching Assistants, and collaborate with classmates. Outside of class, you’ll have access to TAs and a network of tutors to keep you progressing. Dedicated Career Services Get ready for your next career move by using our various career services like technical interview training, virtual tech panels, portfolio reviews, resume support, 1:1 career coaching, and more. *The material covered in this boot camp is subject to change due to market demand. Web development is one of the fastest-growing careers in today’s economy. Jobs are projected to grow by 13% through 2028 according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.* Columbia Engineering Coding Boot Camp was designed to help busy adults develop the skills and professional network needed to capitalize on this high demand career track, through a convenient online format. *Bureau of Labor Statistics Become a Web Developer —from Anywhere Why join our boot camp You will tap into our proven curriculum, adapted for online learning. Over the course of 24 weeks, you will cover front end and back end technologies using real-world, project-based examples. You will learn how to: implement complex logical conditions to meet an objective, develop a vision for a website — and build it, create robust web applications and services, and more. You will become part of a wide community of like-minded individuals, allowing for collaboration and peer-to-peer learning via Slack, live chat, voice, and video. You will receive extensive on-demand support both inside and outside of class each week. You will also have access to a free tutor network. You will receive career-planning assistance, including: Portfolio reviews, resume and social media profile support, career content and practice sessions, technical interview training, 1:1 career coaching, soft skills training, and more. Access to a dedicated career materials advisor and career director who will work with you on your professional development. Crack the Code to Your Future Stand out in today’s market Become a member of an international alumni group of budding web developers to support you in your career and continued learning. Put your skills into action by attending Project Demo Day — an optional, quarterly networking event with industry professionals to showcase your final project. Polish your professional presence and get ready for the job market through continued 1:1 career coaching with your career director after the boot camp. Tap into curated open-source projects and activities to help you demonstrate a commitment to continuous learning and gain access to crash courses in Python, Java, C#, and Amazon Web Services to continue building upon your professional portfolio. After 24 rigorous weeks, you’ll receive an Award of Completion from Columbia Engineering, displaying your accomplishments. Where Our Alumni Work Our boot camp alumni are hired by some of the world’s leading organizations. About Columbia Engineering The mission of The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science is to expand knowledge and advance technology through research, while educating learners to become leaders informed by an engineering foundation. Enriched with the intellectual resources of a global university in the City of New York, we push disciplinary frontiers, confront complex issues, and engineer innovative solutions to address the grand challenges of our time. We create a collaborative environment that embraces interdisciplinary thought, integrated entrepreneurship, cultural awareness, and social responsibility, and advances the translation of ideas into practical innovations. This Boot Camp is offered through Columbia Engineering in partnership with Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. About Trilogy Education Services Trilogy Education is a workforce accelerator that empowers the world’s leading universities to prepare professionals for high-growth careers in the digital economy. Thousands of people around the globe have completed Trilogy-powered programs, and more than 2,000 companies — including 50% of the Fortune 100 — employ them. Frequently Asked Questions When does the boot camp start? The boot camp begins Soon Live sessions are held Monday/Wednesday or Tuesday/Thursday from 7 p.m. – 9 p.m How does the remote boot camp work? Our boot camp combines live, virtual classes with flexible text and video content to work through each week. You will benefit from collaboration with peers and extensive on-demand support to keep you moving forward. What is the class attendance policy? You can miss up to eight required classes and catch up on your own time. It is highly encouraged that you do not miss any classes during the first three weeks, as the content is foundational and required for success in the boot camp. Can I keep working while studying at Columbia Engineering Coding Boot Camp? Yes. Our online boot camp was designed for working adults, students, and busy professionals. The boot camp combines flexible online content with live virtual classes held on weekday evenings. How long is the course? You will complete the boot camp in six months. Do you provide career planning support? Yes. We offer you career support and coaching, including portfolio reviews, resume assistance, and technical interview training. In addition, we offer experiential learning opportunities to strengthen your portfolio. Do I need to have previous experience in programming before enrolling? No. While having some background can help, our pre-course tutorials will get you up to speed and ready to start learning on Day 1. What sets your boot camp apart from other online boot camps operating in New York City or surrounding areas? Our boot camp provides all the benefits of an in-person classroom environment through a unique online format, allowing you to study through engaging online material and live virtual classes from any location. We offer a part-time class schedule that allows working professionals to study web development without leaving work. You will benefit from a robust set of professional development services to prepare you for success as you work to advance or change careers. Our curriculum is built based on the most in-demand technologies specific to the market. Get Boot Camp Info First Name Last Name Email Phone Submit By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. The following requires your attention: Choose Boot Camp Next Back Online or In-Person? Next Back Choose Boot Camp Next Back Campus Next Back Choose Boot Camp Type Next Back Choose Start Date Next Back First Name Next Back Last Name Next Back Email Next Back Phone By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. Submit Back 0% Are you over the age of 18? Yes No Next Back Zip / Postal Code Next Back Highest level of education? Highest level of education? Some High School High School Diploma or GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Some graduate coursework Graduate Degree Prefer not to say Next Back Preferred Contact Method How do you prefer to be contacted? Phone Call Email Next Back How soon do you want to start? Immediately Within 6 months In 6-12 months In a year or more Next Back I want to I want to... Which best describes your goal? Start a new career Switch career path Advance current career Start/Grow business Prefer not to say Other Launch a new career Change my career path Further my career Become an entrepreneur Recent graduate, First job Prefer not to say Other Next Back Which Tech Track interests you? Which Tech Track interests you? Cloud Computing Advanced Front End Advanced Back End Next Back Upcoming Start Dates Boot camp begins July 26, 2022 Get Program Info This course is offered through Columbia Engineering: https://engineering.columbia.edu/ Powered by Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. Contact Columbia Engineering Boot Camps at (646) 870-1598 Terms & Conditions | Privacy/Your Privacy Rights