In collaboration with Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. Live Chat Apply Live Chat Menu About Our Programs About Penn LPS About Penn SEAS Meet The Leadership Location and Schedule Programs Coding Program Curriculum Cyber Program Curriculum Data Program Curriculum Experience Overview Participant Support Career Services In The Classroom Testimonials FAQ Blog Apply Penn Boot Camps Coding Get Program Info Program Curriculum Get Program Info First Name Last Name Email Phone Submit By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. The following requires your attention: Choose Program Next Back Online or In-Person? Next Back Choose Program Next Back Campus Next Back Choose Program Type Next Back Choose Start Date Next Back First Name Next Back Last Name Next Back Email Next Back Phone By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. Submit Back 0% Are you over the age of 18? Yes No Next Back Zip / Postal Code Next Back Highest level of education? Highest level of education? Some High School High School Diploma or GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Some graduate coursework Graduate Degree Prefer not to say Next Back Preferred Contact Method How do you prefer to be contacted? Phone Call Email Next Back How soon do you want to start? Immediately Within 6 months In 6-12 months In a year or more Next Back I want to I want to... Which best describes your goal? Start a new career Switch career path Advance current career Start/Grow business Prefer not to say Other Launch a new career Change my career path Further my career Become an entrepreneur Recent graduate, First job Prefer not to say Other Next Back Which Tech Track interests you? Which Tech Track interests you? Cloud Computing Advanced Front End Advanced Back End Next Back Enrolling Now Coding 07/11: Full-Time (12 weeks) 08/22: Part-Time (24 weeks) Cybersecurity 08/29: Part-Time (24 weeks) Data Science 06/13: Part-Time (24 weeks) Contact Admissions (215) 310-5477 Connect With Us Penn LPS Coding Boot Camp Classes begin quarterly Submit your application today. All classes are being offered through our proven virtual classroom experience. Learn more. Learn to Code With Our Online Coding Boot Camp Only 12 or 24 Weeks to a New Career Path in Web Development Web development is a fast-growing career track, and the Penn LPS Coding Boot Camp teaches you the specialized skills you need to tap into this rewarding industry. Through a fast-paced, immersive curriculum, you’ll learn the full stack of skills needed to become proficient in front end and back end technologies, programming languages, and frameworks. Lay a strong foundation in coding through learning the fundamental concepts of web development: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, command line, API consumption and much more. Learn how to engineer full stack applications, write Node.js server code, MySQL, and connect back end technologies with the front end. Acquire the skills to optimize web applications for speed and performance: NoSQL databases, progressive web applications (PWAs), single-page applications with React. Create scalable web apps, APIs, and services. Dive into core Java and object oriented programming. Simulate a professional work environment by teaming up with your peers and put your new skills into practice on complex projects. Receive a Certificate of Completion from Penn LPS, demonstrating your achievements. Gain an edge in the field through our comprehensive career services, such as technical interview preparation, resume and social media support, portfolio reviews, coaching, soft skills training, and more to help launch or advance your career. Whether you choose our 24-week, part-time program or our 12-week, immersive program, you’ll go through a challenging and rewarding experience. Through live sessions, extensive support, and collaboration with your peers, you’ll gain proficiency in the theory and application of web development. As you embark on this journey, you’ll dive into a challenging curriculum and learn more than you thought was possible. With a dynamic environment and collaboration with other learners, you will get hands-on experience in full-stack web development. Why Apply to Penn LPS Coding Boot Camp? Learning to code is an intensive undertaking. If you are craving to expand your knowledge and join the tech world, seeking to advance or change careers, and most importantly: ready to roll up your sleeves and work HARD…then the Penn LPS Coding Boot Camp could be right for you. Those looking to find a new career or company—or make the move from a non-technical position to a technical one. Those who are interested in freelancing to supplement their current income—or contribute in a bigger way in their current job. Those seeking to learn the skills to execute on an entrepreneurial idea and build their own product. Those with the ambition to grow in their knowledge or add to their skill set while in college. Get Program Info First Name Last Name Email Phone Submit By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. The following requires your attention: Choose Program Next Back Online or In-Person? Next Back Choose Program Next Back Campus Next Back Choose Program Type Next Back Choose Start Date Next Back First Name Next Back Last Name Next Back Email Next Back Phone By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. Submit Back 0% Are you over the age of 18? Yes No Next Back Zip / Postal Code Next Back Highest level of education? Highest level of education? Some High School High School Diploma or GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Some graduate coursework Graduate Degree Prefer not to say Next Back Preferred Contact Method How do you prefer to be contacted? Phone Call Email Next Back How soon do you want to start? Immediately Within 6 months In 6-12 months In a year or more Next Back I want to I want to... Which best describes your goal? Start a new career Switch career path Advance current career Start/Grow business Prefer not to say Other Launch a new career Change my career path Further my career Become an entrepreneur Recent graduate, First job Prefer not to say Other Next Back Which Tech Track interests you? Which Tech Track interests you? Cloud Computing Advanced Front End Advanced Back End Next Back Learn In-Demand Coding Skills Our curriculum covers front-end and back-end technologies*, and you will complete the program with the skills needed to become a full-stack web developer: Computer Science applied to JavaScript Databases (MySQL, MongoDB) Server Side Development (MERN Stack, Template Engines) Browser Based Technologies (HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Progressive Web Applications) Deployment and Delivery (Heroku, Git, GitHub Pages, Shell Scripting) API Design (Client-Server Model, API, Rest, JSON, AJAX, HTTP request methods, GraphQL) Quality Assurance (Unit Testing, Linting, Continuous Integration) Supplemental Self-Study Topics (Python, Java, C#, Amazon Web Services) *The material covered is subject to change. Our academic team adjusts to the market demand. Frequently Asked Questions Where are the Coding Boot Camp classes held? Penn LPS Coding Boot Camp classes in Philadelphia are being held through our tried and tested virtual classroom. For more information on how to apply to this program, please fill out our contact form or call to speak with admissions at (215) 310-5477. How long does the Coding Boot Camp take to complete? Learners can complete the part-time coding program in 6 months (24 weeks), and the full-time program in 3 months (12 weeks). Do I need to have previous experience in programming before enrolling? No previous experience in programming is required. The pre-program tutorials will help you prepare for the Coding Boot Camp. Do I need to be a University of Pennsylvania student to enroll in the Coding Boot Camp? No, applicants do not need to be University of Pennsylvania students. Penn LPS Coding Boot Camp is open to all applicants 18 or older with a GED or higher. Schedule and Dates Part-Time Coding 24-week program Live online classes conveniently held weekday evenings and on Saturdays Full-Time Coding 12-week program Live online class sessions are held Monday – Friday from 10 a.m. – 2:30 p.m. Currently Enrolling » Coding: Full-Time: July 11, 2022 Part-Time: August 22, 2022 » Cybersecurity: Part-Time: August 29, 2022 » Data Science: Part-Time: Soon The Market for Web Developers in Philadelphia, PA & the U.S. User-friendly, high-performing websites have become even more critical given our society’s ever-increasing reliance on e-commerce and virtual interaction. As a result, it isn’t surprising that web development jobs are projected to grow 8 percent from 2019 to 2029 (double the average growth rate for all occupations combined) according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). This translates to roughly 13,400 annual job openings for web developers through 2029. In Philadelphia, annual web developer salaries can range from $61,000 to $95,570, which is on par with national averages. Individual salary depends on a number of factors including years of experience, knowledge of in-demand skills, location, company size, and industry. That said, the median annual salary for developers in the Philadelphia area is $76,400, which is also on par with national averages. There are a number of viable pathways available to break into web development. And, though traditional college degrees have been required in the past, hiring managers now consider boot camp completion to be a strong qualification — even Google and Apple no longer require a college degree for all of their new hires. What’s more, 72 percent of hiring managers surveyed for the 2020 HackerRank report who have hired a boot camp learner felt they were equally or better equipped for the job than other hires. Penn LPS Coding Boot Camp not only offers the in-demand training web developers need, it also provides real-world project experience that enables participants to build professional-grade portfolios demonstrating their skills to prospective employers. In addition, the quality training received can help qualify participants for other types of roles as well: Full Stack Developer Front End Web Developer Back End Web Developer QA and Test Engineer Software Developer Application Development Manager Web Designer Product Manager Web Producer Technical Business Analyst Given the demand for web developers in the marketplace, you can choose the role and environment that works best for you. Whether you are interested in working in the private sector, governmental work, or even higher learning institutions, this field lends itself to a positive work-life balance and is conducive to a remote or hybrid work schedule. Shape your future in a way that fuels your career success and works best for your life. If you’re ready to learn more about Penn LPS Coding Boot Camp, contact an admissions advisor at (215) 310-5477 or fill out the form below. Get Program Info First Name Last Name Email Phone Submit By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. The following requires your attention: Choose Program Next Back Online or In-Person? Next Back Choose Program Next Back Campus Next Back Choose Program Type Next Back Choose Start Date Next Back First Name Next Back Last Name Next Back Email Next Back Phone By submitting this form, you agree that Trilogy Education Services may contact you regarding this boot camp. Your personal data will be used as described in our privacy policy. You may opt out of receiving communications at any time. Submit Back 0% Are you over the age of 18? Yes No Next Back Zip / Postal Code Next Back Highest level of education? Highest level of education? Some High School High School Diploma or GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Some graduate coursework Graduate Degree Prefer not to say Next Back Preferred Contact Method How do you prefer to be contacted? Phone Call Email Next Back How soon do you want to start? Immediately Within 6 months In 6-12 months In a year or more Next Back I want to I want to... Which best describes your goal? Start a new career Switch career path Advance current career Start/Grow business Prefer not to say Other Launch a new career Change my career path Further my career Become an entrepreneur Recent graduate, First job Prefer not to say Other Next Back Which Tech Track interests you? Which Tech Track interests you? Cloud Computing Advanced Front End Advanced Back End Next Back Learn More About Coding Boot Camps What is an online coding bootcamp? These days, flexibility and convenience are integral parts of our everyday lives. Online coding bootcamps offer just that. As the name implies, these fast-paced programs are designed around a structured curriculum that covers the fundamental topics individuals need to know to enter the field of web development. Because you can study remotely from anywhere, you can continue to balance your personal and professional commitments, advance or supplement your current skill set, or embark on a completely new career path that aligns with your interests. Are coding bootcamps meant for beginners? Steve Jobs famously said, “Everyone in this country should learn how to program because it teaches you how to think.” Regardless of your age or professional expertise, coding skills are universal and bootcamps offer the opportunity to dive into the field — no matter where you are in life. For beginners, the end goal might seem a long way away but through hard work, ongoing support, and a variety of available resources, our bootcamp team is here to assist you every step of the way. Are coding certifications or certificates of completion worth it? In 2020, coding bootcamp learners reported an average salary of about $69,079, with 79% stating they landed a job where they use the skills gained from their program, Course Report data shows. The credential you earn not only showcases your knowledge and abilities to employers but it also demonstrates your true passion for what you do. What makes Penn LPS’s coding bootcamp different from other Pennsylvania-based coding bootcamps? We understand that time is a significant factor in reaching your professional goals. Both our part-time and full-time coding programs are offered virtually in a dynamic format that encourages collaboration with your instructional staff and peers. Our comprehensive curriculum is built around extensive market research covering the most in-demand technologies specific to the market. Every week, our bootcamp team helps you navigate through the program material and provides a wide range of career services delivered by a dedicated professional development team focused on preparing you to successfully step into the web development field. How do I get a job after a coding boot camp? Investing in your future is a big decision, that’s why coding bootcamps offer a multitude of resources to help learners enter the job market. You can expect to receive technical interview training, resume and social media profile support, one-on-one career coaching, industry workshops, salary negotiation tips, virtual networking events, and more. The professional development assistance offered through the program will provide career and job relevant resources, tools, training, and recruiting opportunities to help you kickstart your career. About Programs Experience FAQ Blog Apply Online Allentown Pittsburgh Bensalem Erie Reading Scranton Lancaster City Philadephia Upper Darby In collaboration with Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. The Coding Boot Camp is offered through the University of Pennsylvania College of Liberal and Professional Studies The Cybersecurity Boot Camp is offered through the University of Pennsylvania College of Liberal and Professional Studies and School of Engineering and Applied Science The Data Science Boot Camp is offered through the University of Pennsylvania College of Liberal and Professional Studies and School of Engineering and Applied Science Contact Penn Boot Camps at (215) 310-5477 Privacy/Your Privacy Rights | Terms & Conditions Facebook A Facebook icon to link to the school's boot camp Facebook page