Live Chat Icon Live Chat Get Course Info First Name Last Name Email Phone Submit I consent to be contacted by or on behalf of Trilogy Education Services, LLC and Columbia Engineering about furthering my career training. My personal data will be used as described in the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. I may opt out of receiving communications at any time. The following requires your attention: Choose Boot Camp Next Back Online or In-Person? Next Back Choose Boot Camp Next Back Campus Next Back Choose Boot Camp Type Next Back Choose Start Date Next Back First Name Next Back Last Name Next Back Email Next Back Phone I consent to be contacted by or on behalf of Trilogy Education Services, LLC and Columbia Engineering about furthering my career training. My personal data will be used as described in the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. I may opt out of receiving communications at any time. Submit Back 0% Are you over the age of 18? Yes No Next Back Zip / Postal Code Next Back Highest level of education? Highest level of education? Some High School High School Diploma or GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Some graduate coursework Graduate Degree Prefer not to say Next Back Preferred Contact Method How do you prefer to be contacted? Phone Call Email Next Back How soon do you want to start? Immediately Within 6 months In 6-12 months In a year or more Next Back Student First Name Next Back Student Last Name Next Back How old is the student? How old is the student? 14-1516-1718+ Next Back Current grade 9-12 student? Current grade 9-12 student? YesNo Next Back Coding experience level? Coding experience level? They have not written code beforeThey have some experience with codingThey code all the time on their ownI don't know Next Back Which Tech Track interests you? Which Tech Track interests you? Cloud Computing Advanced Front End Advanced Back End Next Back Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Three-Week Front End Coding Immersion Part-time, instructor-led online classes for high school students begin June 28, 2022 For registration details, call (646) 437-6215 Duration 12 or 24 weeks Program Cost $13,995 Flexible Payment Interest-free payment plans Engaging Summer Learning Experience Students will explore in-demand browser-based technologies through a challenging and engaging curriculum including HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery.* Students will benefit from hands-on learning with maximum support. The virtual classroom environment allows students to ask questions, easily get help from instructional staff, and collaborate with their peers. Students will create sample portfolio pieces and earn a certificate of participation from Columbia Engineering to showcase their accomplishments. Students will study part-time, attending dynamic, instructor-led live classes three days a week — from the comfort of home, or any location. Students will gain valuable life skills applicable to future experiences, from critical thinking and problem-solving to teamwork and effective communication. Course fee: $2,500 *The material covered in this course is subject to change due to market demand. According to a report by Google and Gallup, about half (47%) of principals surveyed who say their schools have computer science learning opportunities also state the material does not include programming/coding — a core component of computer science*. The Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy was designed to equip students with the foundational coding, critical thinking, and problem-solving skills necessary in today’s digital world. *Source: Searching for Computer Science: Access and Barriers in U.S. K-12 Education Rewarding Learning Experience Students will explore the field of computer programming and cover a range of fundamental front end web development technologies through skills-based learning. Students will receive hands-on experience completing projects ranging from HTML and CSS code samples to simple JavaScript applications. Students will build and improve upon skills essential in the professional world, including logic and critical thinking, problem-solving, and working in a team setting. Students receive personalized support from instructional staff and benefit from in-class collaboration, working both individually and in teams on sample portfolio projects. Prepare for the Future Students will receive a certificate of participation from Columbia Engineering showcasing their accomplishments. Students will build a portfolio of sample projects that demonstrate their working knowledge of the topics covered in class. Students will gain technological literacy and invaluable experience in teamwork and creative problem-solving, helping to differentiate themselves on resumes. Students will form a dynamic community of fellow aspiring web developers, allowing for networking and future collaboration. About Columbia Engineering The mission of The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science is to expand knowledge and advance technology through research while educating students to become leaders informed by an engineering foundation. Enriched with the intellectual resources of a global university in the City of New York, we push disciplinary frontiers, confront complex issues, and engineer innovative solutions to address the grand challenges of our time. We create a collaborative environment that embraces interdisciplinary thought, integrated entrepreneurship, cultural awareness, and social responsibility, and advances the translation of ideas into practical innovations. This Boot Camp is offered through Columbia Engineering in partnership with Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. About Trilogy Education Services Trilogy Education is a workforce accelerator that empowers the world’s leading universities to prepare professionals for high-growth careers in the digital economy. Thousands of people around the globe have graduated from Trilogy-powered programs, and more than 2,000 companies — including 50% of the Fortune 100 — employ them. Frequently Asked Questions What are the dates of the course? June 28, 2022 Live, virtual classes are held Monday – Friday, 9 a.m. – 12 p.m. Each week, students will attend formal class lectures Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, students will benefit from supervised group project work. Can students study at the High School Coding Academy while maintaining their current summer schedule? Yes. The course is designed with a part-time schedule in order for students to be able to attend while maintaining any existing summer commitments. How long is the course? Students will complete this summer course in three weeks. Do students need to have previous experience in programming before enrolling? No previous experience is required. Is the course open-enrollment and are there prerequisites? Yes. The only requirements for enrollment are that you currently reside within the United States and you be a high school student between the ages of 13 and 18 years old. What sets your boot camp apart from others available this summer? We offer a part-time course in partnership with Columbia Engineering created exclusively for high school students to gain essential skills, introducing them to the knowledge and abilities needed to explore the field of computer programming. Students apply the knowledge they gain throughout the course on sample projects that can be showcased within resumes. Our curriculum is built based on in-demand front end technologies applicable to a wide range of industries and professions. Our instructional staff includes veteran web developers with vast industry knowledge and previous experience teaching coding programs at top-tier universities. What is the cost of the course? This summer course is $2,500. My child is not in high school but they are interested in learning front end web development. Can they take this course? No. This course is only open to students who were enrolled in high school (grades 9-12) in the 2021-2022 academic year and between the ages of 13 and 18 years old. For interested parties who are 18+ and have previously completed high school or a GED, you can explore the Columbia Engineering Coding Boot Camp. Get Course Info First Name Last Name Email Phone Submit I consent to be contacted by or on behalf of Trilogy Education Services, LLC and Columbia Engineering about furthering my career training. My personal data will be used as described in the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. I may opt out of receiving communications at any time. The following requires your attention: Choose Boot Camp Next Back Online or In-Person? Next Back Choose Boot Camp Next Back Campus Next Back Choose Boot Camp Type Next Back Choose Start Date Next Back First Name Next Back Last Name Next Back Email Next Back Phone I consent to be contacted by or on behalf of Trilogy Education Services, LLC and Columbia Engineering about furthering my career training. My personal data will be used as described in the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. I may opt out of receiving communications at any time. Submit Back 0% Are you over the age of 18? Yes No Next Back Zip / Postal Code Next Back Highest level of education? Highest level of education? Some High School High School Diploma or GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Some graduate coursework Graduate Degree Prefer not to say Next Back Preferred Contact Method How do you prefer to be contacted? Phone Call Email Next Back How soon do you want to start? Immediately Within 6 months In 6-12 months In a year or more Next Back Student First Name Next Back Student Last Name Next Back How old is the student? How old is the student? 14-1516-1718+ Next Back Current grade 9-12 student? Current grade 9-12 student? YesNo Next Back Coding experience level? Coding experience level? They have not written code beforeThey have some experience with codingThey code all the time on their ownI don't know Next Back Which Tech Track interests you? Which Tech Track interests you? Cloud Computing Advanced Front End Advanced Back End Next Back Get Course Info This course is offered through Columbia Engineering: https://engineering.columbia.edu/ Powered by Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. Contact the High School Coding Academy at (646) 437-6215 Terms & Conditions | Privacy/Your Privacy Rights | Cookie Policy