Borton Lab People Projects Publications Resources Events Borton Lab Designing, developing, and deploying neurotechnology to better understand the nervous system and improve human lives In the News Big congratulations to Ayan Waite (EE) and Michaela Alarie (BME) in the lab for receiving the 2022 NSF Graduate Research Fellowship!! Beautiful work from colleagues at Baylor (Prof. Bijanki and team) comparing Diffusion Tensor Imaging and single pulse evoked electrophysiology demonstrating similarities (and differenece) between structural and electrophysiological connectivity! – Check it out in Brain Stimulation Learn about challenges and solutions to performing concurrent stimulation and sensing in bidirectional brain interfaces in this highly collaborate publication from Openmind Consortium! – Published in Journal of Neural Engineering "Researchers identify brain signals associated with OCD symptoms, paving way for adaptive treatment." –– Huge congratulations to Nicole Provenza, the Brown team, and our collaborators at Baylor College of Medicine and University of Pittsburgh on publishing the work on novel frameworks to study neuropsychiatric illness! – Nature Medicine So proud of latest Ph.D.'s Dr. Nicole Provenza (Biomedical Engineering) and Dr. Elaina Atherton (Biotechnology)!!! Way to go Elaina and Sophie on their demonstration on the impact of neuroinflammation on functional connectivity in vitro! – Scientific Reports Congratulations Anusha on publishing the work on novel frameworks to study neuropsychiatric illness! – Neurosurgery Funding We are funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the National Institute for Neurological Disease and Stroke, the National Institute for Mental Health, and the Department of Veterans Affiars. Diversity, equity, and inclusion In an ideal world, science would be objective. However, much of science is subjective and is historically built on a small subset of privileged voices. The Borton lab is committed to creating an environment for the team that supports a diversity of thoughts, perspectives and experiences, and honors your identities (including race, gender, class, sexuality, religion, ability, etc.). Our lab seeks to recruit, support, and retain members from diverse backgrounds and groups that have historically been underrepresented in the sciences. As a team, we are committed to creating a learning and working environment where individuals feel supported and invested in the lab mission, and each other. Opportunities We are looking for driven scientists to help us design, build and implement novel neurotechnology for investigating the nervous system. Students with an electrical engineering and/or neuroscience background are encouraged to apply. If interested in joining the lab, please contact our research coordinator, Becca Poncin, CVT ( ), for more information. Research staff openings Research Software Engineer – Neurotechnology The Borton Lab is looking for a Research Software Engineer (RSE, Neurotechnology) to work with our team and the Brown data science community to develop and deploy high-quality software. The RSE is expected to be a motivated, agile learner who keeps up-to-date with emerging technologies across a wide range of fields such as scientific programming, web/mobile development, data management, analysis, and visualization. The RSE will perform software development to support research initiatives and goals across a variety of sub-groups in the laboratory, including research on spinal cord injury, neuropsychiatric illness, pain, sensory processing, and advanced hardware development. Applicants must be eligible to work in the U.S. Apply here Postdoctoral Research Associate openings General announcement We invite applications for Postdoctoral Research Associates to help advance our laboratory mission. Specific areas of interest are electrophysiology analysis, biomarker detection in complex brain signals, and implantable hardware development. Applicants must be eligible to work in the U.S. We specifically are looking for individuals interested in intracranial electrophysiology and neuromodulation as well as Interested candidates should email CV and recent publications to Prof. Borton ( ) directly with reference to potential project details Doctoral student openings General announcement We are always eager to bring motivated, creative, and rigorously trained students on to our team. Interested students should explore the Brown University Biomedical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Neuroscience graduate programs to familiarize themselves with the university. Interested candidates should email a CV to Prof. Borton ( ) directly Masters student openings 3D in vitro models of neuroinflammation We invite Masters students to work with us on the development of 3D hybrid culture models studying the role of microglia in neuroinflammation and Alzheimer`s Disease. See here for more details on the project. Interested candidates should email CV to Sophie Brown ( ) Undergraduate student openings We do not have any Undergraduate student openings at this time. Borton Lab Contact Us Phone: +1.401.863.1983 Email: Rebecca Poncin (Research coordinator) Main Office Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science 164 Angell Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02912 View Map Barus and Holley Building Brown University School of Engineering 182 Hope Street Providence, Rhode Island 02912 View Map