Skip to main content | Boston Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Site Search Home About Boston Regional CouncilOther Regions About Toggle Dropdown Boston Regional CouncilOther Regions Events Admissions Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact Admissions Toggle Dropdown Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact Alumni Alumni ProfilesBoston Alumni Club Alumni Toggle Dropdown Alumni ProfilesBoston Alumni Club Giving Contact Us Toggle navigation Home AboutToggle Dropdown for About Boston Regional CouncilOther Regions Events AdmissionsToggle Dropdown for Admissions Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact AlumniToggle Dropdown for Alumni Alumni ProfilesBoston Alumni Club Giving Contact Us Home /Alumni Alumni We have 13,000 reasons to love Boston There are more than 13,000 people in the Boston area who got their start at Syracuse University. Armed with their degrees and shaped by their experiences on and off the Syracuse University campus, our alumni are making a difference, finding success, and supporting Syracuse University in Boston and beyond. Read more about how the Syracuse University Alumni Association can help you stay connected. Join the Syracuse University Alumni Club of Boston If you’re looking for Orange in the New England region, you can find it! The Syracuse University Alumni Club of Boston, formerly Boston Orange, has hundreds of active members and hosts numerous events throughout the year. Syracuse University alumni clubs around the world draw thousands of grads together to enjoy a wide variety of social and educational programming. Events range from faculty speakers to career networking opportunities, to game-watching events and evenings at the theater. Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to keep up with Syracuse University news from the Boston area! Attend an Event Events are a great way to network with alumni, family, and friends in the area! The Office of Alumni Engagement, schools and colleges, and campus partners all plan a full calendar of events in the area. Be sure to check out our Career and Professional Development events! Get Social Follow Syracuse University in Boston on social to stay up to date with events, updates from campus, and so much more! Syracuse University in Boston Social Media Boston Facebook: @SUinBoston Boston Twitter: @BostonOrange44 Boston Club Linkedin: Syracuse University Alumni—Boston For a more complete list of social networking and media platforms, go to Syracuse University's Social Media Directory. Stay Connected Syracuse University Alumni Website The ’Cuse Community is Syracuse University’s original social network. Need to update your address, e-mail, or current employment? Want to search for college friends, submit a class note, or read about your fellow classmates? Join today—membership is free and exclusive to Syracuse University alumni! ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts The ’Cuse Conversations Podcast, hosted by John Boccacino ’03, Chris Velardi ’95 and the Office of Alumni Engagement communications team, allows listeners to hear directly from the talented and outstanding Syracuse University alumni who are making a difference in their communities, as well as current students and faculty members. Virtual Opportunities Stay connected to fellow alumni during these uncertain times. Young Alumni Engagement Are you an Alum who graduated within the last 10 years? Then you're part of Generation Orange! Being GenO means that you get special discounts on Office of Alumni Engagement events and unique opportunities for special programs designed to help you on your emerging life and career post 'Cuse! Learn more about Generation Orange programs. Volunteer Interested in volunteering? Fill out the volunteer form and we'll get back to you. Career Services Just because you're not a student doesn't mean you can't utilize Syracuse University's vast Career Services network! Learn all the ways we can help you advance your career. Be sure to check out our Career and Professional Development events! Update Your Info We love to hear from you and all you're doing in the area as we look to connect students and alumni within this Orange network. The best way to make sure you can connect for mentoring or hiring opportunities. Update your information on Cuse Community! Have a Cuse Community Account or want to get one? Go to cusecommunity.syr.edu, and click "Sign In." If you want to set up an account, click First Time Login. Don't want a Cuse Community Account but still want to update? Go to alumniupdate.syr.edu and update your address so we know you're in the area! We'll start sending you information on regional programs! Give to the Part of Syracuse University that Means the Most to You Do you want to ensure that students today get the same or even better Orange experiences you had when at 'Cuse? Consider making a gift to the part of Syracuse University that means the most to you. In This Section Alumni Alumni Profiles Boston Alumni Club Update Your Info Footer Section Syracuse University Boston Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, NY 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.247.6978 Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Make a Gift Boston Links Upcoming Events Admissions Planned Giving Give Now Contact Us Sitemap Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Syracuse University Alumni Syracuse University Admissions Syracuse University News Athletics Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. All rights reserved. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top