Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Box for Oregon State University Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Sign In to Box Getting Started With Box Approved Apps Box FAQs Box Status Box for Research Box for Instruction Box for Students Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Sign In to Box Getting Started With Box Approved Apps Box FAQs Box Status You are here Home Approved Apps for Box All apps created for Box, including both those developed by Box and by third-party developers, are available for your use with Box at Oregon State University. A list of the apps available and supported in OSU's Box environment are listed below. Approved Apps: Desktop apps Box Edit Box Excel Online Previewer Box for Office: Edit and share Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files easily (Windows). Box for Office Online: Edit and share Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files easily Box for Outlook: Send files using sharing links and save attachments Box for Windows 10: allows you to access and share your content anywhere, anytime, on any Windows device. Box for Windows 8: allows you to access and share your content anywhere, anytime, on any Windows device. Box FTP Server: Offical Box FTP server: Requires FTP (SSL) connection Box WebDav: Official Box WebDav Box Sync for Mac & Windows: Sync desktop files to Box Box Drive for Mac & Windows Kumo Oregonstate: Cloud integration Gmail Google Docs Tablet apps Box for iPad: Access, manage and share all of your content while on the go. Box for Android Tablet: Access, manage and share all of your content while on the go. Box for Android EMM: Access all your Box content directly from your phone, keeping you connected. Gmail Google Docs Cell phone apps Office: Box for Office iOS integration Office for Android: Box fro Office Android integration Box Capture: Capture helps mobile workers quickly snap photos, videos or document scans and then upload and securely share them with Box Box for iPhone: View, upload and share your files while you are on the go. Box for Android: Access, manage and share all of your content while on the go. Box for Windows Phone: Access, view, share and pin your content from anywhere. Gmail Google Docs You can find and install these apps in your Box account by going to https://cloud.app.box.com/apps. For more information about Box apps check out the "What are Box Apps" on our FAQ page. Are there other Apps available? Yes, there are hundreds of apps available through Box's App marketplace. You may use any app you wish with your personal data. Apps listed in the Approved Apps list can be used with institutional data not classified as protected. However, before using any app not listed as approved it is important that you read and understand the following: You are responsible for data sent or stored on computers, devices, and services you use Before using any third party apps be sure you understand and comply with OSU's Information Security Data Classification policies. Third-party applications that work with Box may take the data out of the protected Box environment and onto that company's application servers. OSU's contract with Box does not extend to those companies or applications, so their use for sensitive or protected institutional data is not permitted. Third party applications may also store data unencrypted on their servers. Any app using Web integration is required to use secure (SSL) connections. Some app require licensing and fees. Any fees charged for third party apps are the responsibility of the requesting user or department unless specifically funded by OSU. Apps not in the list of approved apps are not supported by OSU's Service desk. Support requests will need to be sent to the app vendor. Having trouble? If you have an app you would like to use and you find that you cannot grant access to your Box account it is likely an unpublished app. In order to get it to work you will need to do several things before contacting the help desk: Make sure you are authenticating to your Box account from the app using SSO. Contact the vendor and request the ClientID from the Box Developer app's Configuration/OAuth 2.0 Credentials section. Then submit that with your support request, or In some cases you will see a URL when granting access to Box. In that URL is embedded the ClientID. Copy that ID and submit with your support request. clientid.png Box for Research Box for Instruction Box for Students Contact Info Box for OSU Support Students: IS Service Desk Instructors: Box for Instruction Faculty & Staff: Your IT support team Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer