Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Agricultural Sciences » Department of Botany and Plant Pathology Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Diversity Seminars Endowments Faculty Resources Open Positions Getting to RWLB Academics Biological Data Sciences Botany Degree Online Botany undergraduate degree Graduate programs Undergraduate Botany and Plant Pathology Club OSU Mycology Club Scholarships Extension and Outreach OSU Plant Clinic OSU Herbarium Nematode Testing Service Research People Faculty Graduate students Research associates and assistants Administrative Support Meet our alumni Strategic Plan Strategic Goals News Stories new Research Plant Development and Function Plant Health Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Diversity Seminars Endowments Faculty Resources Open Positions Getting to RWLB Academics Biological Data Sciences Botany Degree Online Botany undergraduate degree Graduate programs Undergraduate Botany and Plant Pathology Club OSU Mycology Club Scholarships Extension and Outreach OSU Plant Clinic OSU Herbarium Nematode Testing Service Research People Faculty Graduate students Research associates and assistants Administrative Support Meet our alumni Strategic Plan Strategic Goals News Stories new Research Plant Development and Function Plant Health Good News from BPP Posy Busby Joins Andrews Forest LTER8 Grant Leadership Also on April 1, Dr. Posy Busby became a co-signatory PI on the Andrews Forest LTER grant.... In a labor of love, OregonFlora team creates an Oregon plant guide for the ages This is a story about passion. And commitment. And family. It’s also a story about plants. Spring 2022 Graduate Student Symposium Join us for our Botany and Plant Pathology Graduate Student Research Celebration event on May 6, 2022 in a new hybrid format! Graduate students will present their research in-person to both a live and online audience. Congratulations to BPP Faculty and Staff Promotions! Posy Busby Associate Professor Christina Hagerty Associate Professor Marc Curtis Sr. Instructor I Zuzana Vejlupkova Sr. Faculty Research Assistant II Jeness Scott Sr. Faculty Research Assistant I Duncan Kroese Sr. Faculty Research Assistant I Seminar Series Scholarships Make a Gift Follow Us 2022 REEU Big Data in Ag The Department of Botany and Plant Pathology at Oregon State University is excited to offer an internship for undergraduate students. Applications are due by 5:00 PM PST on February 26, 2022. Learn more COVID-19 Resources and Information Oregon State University: Latest updates, resources and response to COVID-19. OSU COVID-19 information Biological Data Sciences A new transdisciplinary undergraduate major offered at OSU! The Biological Data Sciences (BDS) program is administered by the Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, and offered in collaboration with faculty from Botany and Plant Pathology, Computer Science, Fisheries and Wildlife, Horticulture, Microbiology, and Pharmaceutical Sciences. Biological Data Sciences offers 3 options, new BDS courses and a minor! Enrollment is open for Spring 2020! Learn more about BDS New! Earn your Botany degree online! Oregon State is the first university in the U.S. to offer a botany degree online. Learn more Tweets by OSUBPP Follow Us BPP Twitter News & Events Recent department news Upcoming events Get a Bachelor of Science Degree in Botany One degree, five options. Learn the core scientific and analytical skills surrounding botany and plant pathology, and focus your education on one of five key areas of focus. Learn more about Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs We offer Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degrees. Within each program, students may elect to specialize in one of eight key areas of concentration. Learn more about Graduate Programs Outreach and Extension Providing the State of Oregon with extension education in plant pathology is a major service mission. Our extension faculty include Cynthia Ocamb, Jay Pscheidt, and Melodie Putnam, who are based on campus. Luisa Santamaria, Ken Frost, and Jeremiah Dung are located at research stations throughout the State. The OSU Plant Clinic, a plant diagnostic disease center, housed in Cordley Hall, provides service to growers and the general public. The Insect ID Clinic is located within the OSU Plant Clinic. Learn about Outreach and Extension ask-an-expert.png Questions? Contact your advisor More Events In the News Posy Busby Joins Andrews Forest LTER8 Grant Leadership Also on April 1, Dr. Posy Busby became a co-signatory PI on the Andrews Forest LTER grant.... In a labor of love, OregonFlora team creates an Oregon plant guide for the ages This is a story about passion. And commitment. And family. It’s also a story about plants. Spring 2022 Graduate Student Symposium Join us for our Botany and Plant Pathology Graduate Student Research Celebration event on May 6, 2022 in a new hybrid format! Graduate students will present their research in-person to both a live and online audience. Melodie Putnam Recieves Funding from IPM Center Melodie Putnam (Oregon State University Plant Clinic) received funding from the Western Region’s IPM Center for a project entitled “Use of Whole Genome Sequencing in Disease Diagnostic Laboratories can Enhance Risk Mitigation.” Evidence From the Fossil Record for Developmental Modularity in Plant Evolution This paper introduces and reviews how the newly emerging discipline of paleo-evolutionary/developmental plant biology has begun to fully integrate phylogenetic pattern with the genetic processes that underlie and implement plant evolut... Contact Info College of Agricultural Sciences Oregon State University Corvallis, Oregon 97331 For questions or feedback about our college or website, please Contact Us. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram Contact Us Department of Botany and Plant Pathology 4575 SW Research Way Corvallis, OR 97333 Send E-mail Phone: 541-737-3451 Fax: 541-737-3573