Skip to content SDSU Brand Portal open searchsubmit Menu About Our Brand openBrand Essentials Logos Logo Policy Design Elements Messaging Email Signature Download Logos and Design Elements Photography Design Templates openCampus Resources On Campus Advertising Email Social Media openStrategic Communications and Public Affairs About Our Team Media Information Community Engagement Multimedia University Information Emergency Communications openI am a Future Student Current Student Newly Admitted Student Parent High School Counselor Faculty / Staff Member openColleges Arts and Letters Fowler College of Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Services SDSU Library Professional Studies and Fine Arts Sciences Weber Honors College openOther Locations SDSU Georgia SDSU Global Campus SDSU Imperial Valley SDSU Mission Valley SDSU Brand Portal youtube twitter facebook instagram In this Section SDSU Brand Portal Strategic Communications and Public Affairs Strategic Communications and Public Affairs About Our Team Media Information Community Engagement Multimedia University Information Emergency Communications Media Relations Experts Directory SDSU Athletics Media Relations University Police Department Contact SDSU Media Parking Policy PRA Requests University Drone Policy Commercial Shoot Request Press Recording on Campus General Recording News outlets are welcome to photograph or shoot video of university buildings and scenes using the public sidewalks and areas. Generally, and in accordance with university Buildings and Grounds Policy, filming is not allowed in classrooms, student residences or in the library unless otherwise previously approved through StratComm. Previous approval requires contacting a member of the StratComm team. Commercial Shoots on Campus According to the current SDSU Buildings and Grounds regulations, filming for commercial purposes requires advanced, written approval and is subject to additional requirements. Approval is not required for filming or photography that is part of the university. However, reservations for campus outdoor space or facilities may be required. Risk Management review may also be required. For more information and appropriate approvals, please contact Alyssa Longeuay with Aztec Shops Ltd. by calling 619-594-2143 or by emailing [email protected]. Commercial Shoot on campus Media Parking on Campus Beginning in Spring 2020, media outlets will be issued individual virtual parking permits assigned to each news vehicle. The permits will require yearly renewal and expire on June 30 of each year. To obtain a parking permit, the recognized San Diego regional media outlet must submit a permit application through the StratComm office. Please designate on the application the license plate number of each registered news vehicle requesting a parking permit. The permit will be valid from July 1 to June 30 of each year. Upon expiration of the permit, a new application will need to be filed by June 1 of each year. Upon application approval, media outlets will receive email confirmation. Parking permits can be used in any of the campus parking structures or open lots with the exception of parking lot 5, 6A, and 13. At no time is media parking permitted: in front of Hepner Hall, on Campanile, Centennial and Cuicacalli Walkways; next to red curbs; in any ADA parking space, special permit areas; or when blocking a fire lane or fire hydrant. Parking in these areas will result in a parking citation. Failure to comply with university parking regulations will result in the revoking of said permit. Campus media relations personnel are unable to assist crews receiving tickets. The individual who received the parking ticket is fully responsible for addressing the citation. News Conferences For planned news events, parking instructions will be provided in advance. For unannounced news events, utilize any of the available lots and structures listed below, or contact a media relations representative for information on parking arrangements and/or availability. Public Records Act Requests Requests for public inspection of SDSU records under the California Public Records Act (Gov Code section 6250 et seq) may be submitted in writing via mail, email or facsimile. Certain records are exempt from public disclosure, and purely personal and private information may be redacted. The Public Records Act does not require the campus to create documents that do not already exist. Upon receipt of a Public Records Act request, SDSU will conduct a reasonable search for the requested records and respond to your request within 10 calendar days. More information on how to direct requests for SDSU records, including contact information for different university departments, and also ways to access documents is available through Business and Financial Affairs online. Requesting Public Records University Drone Policy San Diego State University SDSU is aware of and supportive of the growing use of drones for research, recreation and commercial applications. The use of drones by media partners, or small unmanned aerial vehicles (sUAS), on the SDSU campus is regulated by Section 31.0 of the Buildings and Grounds Policy. Currently, all use of drones on campus is prohibited unless approved in advance by the Director of Emergency Management or StratComm. Drone use by media partners must be pre-submitted for approval by StratComm via email at least three days before the proposed flight date. In the email, applicants must include pilot licensing information, aircraft specification and insurance. SDSU reserves the right to restrict drone operations at any time. Issuance of permit is good for one-time use and does not constitute blanket authority to operate a drone on campus. All approved use of drones must also be in compliance with current FAA regulations (COA, 333 Exemption, Rule 107). Additionally, per FAA policy, you currently cannot fly a small UAS over anyone not directly participating in the operation. General campus B-roll, captured via drone, is available for media outlets. Please contact StratComm for file video. A mandatory courtesy is required for use. SDSU Mission Valley The use of drones on San Diego State University property must be in compliance with the Campus Drone Policy, which can be found at: https://bfa.sdsu.edu/safety/emergency/news. All drone use for all purposes must be approved in advance by the Emergency Preparedness Manager in the SDSU Police Department. More specific information is set forth in Section 31.0 of the SDSU Buildings and Grounds policy. For the safety of construction crews working on SDSU property and for protection of personal property, the additional rules stated below apply to those who wish to fly drones above any SDSU Mission Valley site location, which includes the future River Park and Aztec Stadium. All drone operators are required to have documented permission and clearance to fly drones over any SDSU property or location. To gain clearance, contact Associate Vice President of Public Safety and Community Empowerment Josh Mays by emailing [email protected] You must submit your request at least one week prior to the first day of your requested fight date(s) so the proper authorities are able to review your request. Members of the news media who wish to fly a drone over the site should contact the SDSU Media Relations team by emailing [email protected] or [email protected]. Additional Guidelines for Drone Use above SDSU Mission Valley site: Follow all FAA regulations at https://www.faa.gov/uas/ Drone operators must remain off-site and are not allowed to operate from on the SDSU Mission Valley site as it is an active construction site. No flying is permitted during active construction hours at the SDSU Mission Valley site, which is typically Monday thru Saturday, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. or during possible evening construction hours. Flying height: Drone operators must fly at least 50 feet above the site, which requires prior FAA authorization. Flying below 50 feet increases safety risks. No flying “through” or around construction equipment or “through” existing or new structures. Please stay at least 50 feet away from the existing San Diego Stadium structure and Aztec Stadium. Do not disturb any workers or other individuals on site with your flights. Remain in a continuous line of sight with your drone during the entirety of your flight. If you cannot see your drone, you are not flying according to FAA regulations. More information on SDSU Mission Valley SDSU NewsCenter SDSU Magazine SDSU Publications The SDSU Media Relations Team La Monica Everett-Haynes Associate Vice President and Chief Communications Officer (619) 594-0232 [email protected] Cory Marshall Director of Media Relations (619) 594-0279 [email protected] Lainie Fraser Senior Media Relations Officer (619) 594-1031 [email protected] Susanne Clara Bard Science/Research Writer and Media Relations Officer (619) 594-0389 [email protected] Welcome to SDSU ApplyVisitGet Info youtube twitter facebook instagram 619-594-5200 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 Maps Parking Campus Directory Employment Media Relations Canvas General Contact Network Status Strategic Plan Newsletter Accessibility Document Readers Digital Privacy Statement Campus Safety Reports Feedback © 2022 San Diego State UniversityAll Rights ReservedLast Updated back to top Last Updated 5/26/22