Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Department of Brand Management Main Menu In this section About Our Team Services Brand Guidelines Start A Project Home Services Trademarks and Licensing Trademark Guidelines Trademarks and guidelines Trademarks and Licensing Crafter's Program Bakery Program Trademarks and Guidelines Unlicensed Product Reporting The University’s rights to its marks are governed by federal, state, and common laws. These laws place an obligation on the University to avoid consumer confusion and require that the use of any marks be monitored to avoid losing exclusive control. Our marks Primary logo The “brand” logo is our primary mark and should be used for all OSU units, events or activities. The logos may be sized appropriately for specific use. Care should be taken that the proportions are not altered. The logo is available in full color (as shown) or white. The logo may not be reproduced in anything outside of the official colors and may not be positioned over a distracting background. Academic Emblem Although the primary logo is preferred, OSU academic groups may request the academic emblem if certain conditions are met. The emblem is available in either full color (as shown) or black and white. No other color variation is acceptable. Pistol Pete The Pistol Pete mark can be used to represent the university on all materials where a "spirit" symbol is appropriate. He can be used in conjunction with the primary logo, but should not take its place. All marks must be reproduced from the official artwork available through Brand Management. Fill out this form to request any of our official marks. Usage guidelines Departments of the University ordering merchandise from outside vendors bearing a registered (or common law) trademark, trade name, service mark, or logo of Oklahoma State University must secure approval, in writing, by the Office of Trademarks and Licensing. Recognized and registered student organizations may use the marks in connection with their mission as a student organization at Oklahoma State University for their own internal consumption. Items bearing the marks of the University that are to be used in fundraising projects will be assessed the appropriate royalty fees. The Office of Trademarks and Licensing has established licensed agreements with a number of suppliers who provide a variety of products. A complete list of all current licensees may be obtained by contacting the University’s Licensing Director. Departments or student groups seeking a supplier should first review this list to determine if the required items may be obtained from one of the current licensees. Only officially licensed vendors will be approved to produce merchandise bearing the Oklahoma State University marks. Merchandise produced without written authorization may be considered "counterfeit" and subject to all available legal remedies, including seizure of the merchandise, in accordance with the Trademark Anti-Counterfeiting Act, Title 21, Section 1990 of the Oklahoma Statutes. The marks and name of Oklahoma State University (as well as variations and identifiers and expressions such as Cowboys, Go Pokes, etc.) will not be used in the promotion of alcohol, tobacco, illegal or "recreational" drug products, political campaigns or promotion of political causes, profanity, racist, sexist, hateful, demeaning language or sexual acts. Incorporation of trademarks or copyrights not owned by the University is not permitted, unless written permission for such use is obtained by the Director of Trademarks and Licensing from the mark or copyright owner. The University marks are to be used only in the form registered, including the appropriate trademark designation, and may not be otherwise altered without the expressed authorization of the Office of Trademarks and Licensing. University marks may not be used to endorse or promote commercial ventures, private promotions, political campaigns or promotion of political causes, or for organizations and programs not directly sponsored by the University. Special considerations for such use may be made by a formal request to the Office of Trademarks and Licensing for approval by the President of the University or his/her designee. See Oklahoma State University Policy and Procedure Letter 1-0103, Use of the University Name. Permission to use the University’s marks to be incorporated into private websites must be granted by the Office of Trademarks and Licensing. No objectionable links will be allowed to be placed in the website that contains the University’s marks. A disclaimer must be inserted at the bottom of the opening page of any website containing the University’s marks that there is no official affiliation or endorsement granted by Oklahoma State University. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©