Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Department of Brand Management Main Menu In this section About Our Team Services Brand Guidelines Start A Project Home Brand guidelines Logos and marks Brand guidelines Colors Editorial style Exceptions to AP style Quick editorial tips Images and video Logos and marks Current marks Email signatures Expired marks Logo usage specifications Nametags Powerpoint template Stationery Wordmark usage specifications Print and digital advertising Social media Social Media Assets Typography Bickham Script Fjalla Gotham Narrow Parkside Rubik Sentinel Web presence Logos and marks Visual Identity The land-grant mission of Oklahoma State University leads OSU to seek various avenues for improving the lives of all. These avenues are as diverse as the people OSU touches and their economic activities, educational pursuits and cultural expressions. OSU has a significant commercial interest in play as its alumni, students, friends and fans seek to express their orange passion by using products and wearing apparel that bear the OSU brand. A portion of every purchase price for OSU-branded goods returns to the university to fund scholarships and other worthy programs. Emblems, marks and graphics are occasionally developed to support and widen these markets. These marks remain the property of the university and are essential to its overall success. Continuous and consistent application of them is essential. The proper administration of all the marks require them to be organized in such a way as to honor their integrity but still proudly present their OSU sponsorship and connection. Our marks and how to use them Current marks The marks of Oklahoma State University are sorted into two categories: primary and secondary. The primary mark is the principal graphic signature of Oklahoma State University, its campuses, extension services and units. Other university symbols, marks or logos may not be more prominent than the primary mark without approval. The overarching purpose is to maintain continuity and consistency in the application of the primary mark on all materials that originate from OSU. The primary mark should never be excluded for a subsidiary mark. Current marks Please retire and update any marks or wordmarks that contain any of the elements listed on this expired marks page. Usage specifications The overarching goal is to maintain continuity and consistency in the application of the primary mark on all materials that originate from OSU. The fundamental principles of good design should be employed in all marketing materials to ensure the highest quality standards. The mark should never be reproduced with improper colors, distortions or distracting background and foreground elements. How to use our current marks While Oklahoma State's nomenclature represents the organization as a whole, affiliate campuses, colleges and departments can use tailored workmarks for their unit. How to use our wordmarks Print and digital assets Please visit our vendor services page for a list of official university vendors. Stationery All stationery items for OSU are created and printed by our official vendors. This page includes information for letterheads, envelopes and business cards. Nametags There are 9 total nametag variations that can be created and ordered through an approved vendor. Email signatures Email is the primary mode of communication both internally and externally, so it is critical that a consistent email signature be used by all entities across the university. Powerpoint templates Consistency in how we make presentations as a university contributes to the overall brand. View and download our official powerpoint templates. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©