Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Brand Guide Brand Overview Unifying Our Brand Building Our Brand Promoting Our Brand Protecting Our Brand Brand Standards University Brand Mark Official Brand Signatures Official Brand Colors Official Institutional Marks Brand Guidelines Background Contrast Size and Space Requirements Design Colors Fonts & Typography Stationery Helpful Do's & Don'ts Digital Brand Accessibility Digital Identity Digital Marketing Guides Email Signature Social Media Brand Toolbox Resources / Contacts Baylor United One of the oldest and most enduring Baylor University symbols – and the single most recognized Baylor athletic mark – have come together to form one brand. The iconic, interlocking BU, whose roots on campus reach back nearly 100 years, takes its place at the forefront of a Baylor University Brand now united. Powerful, distinct and instantly recognizable, the new University Brand Mark forms the centerpiece of a Brand Identity that conveys our University to the world. We are one Brand. One Baylor. Explore Unifying Our Brand. The coming-together story of the Baylor brand – the momentum it creates, the opportunities it generates, and the responsibilities we all share in its success. Building Our Brand. Far more than a logo, mark, or symbol, our brand is our reputation. Ours was built on a foundation laid in 1845. And its future is in our hands. Promoting Our Brand. Recognized by millions of people around the world, our brand is our single most visible University ambassador. So we need it to shine. Protecting Our Brand. The value of the Baylor brand – shaped over nearly two centuries – is incalculable. So we want to protect it, with a set of standards worthy of the University it represents. Brand Standards Brand Guidelines Digital Brand Brand Toolbox Resources / Contacts Brand Overview Back Unifying Our Brand Building Our Brand Promoting Our Brand Protecting Our Brand Brand Standards Back University Brand Mark Official Brand Signatures Official Brand Colors Official Institutional Marks Brand Guidelines Back Background Contrast Size and Space Requirements Design Colors Fonts & Typography Stationery Helpful Do's & Don'ts Digital Brand Back Accessibility Digital Identity Digital Marketing Guides Email Signature Social Media Brand Toolbox Resources / Contacts General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678