Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Department of Brand Management Main Menu In this section About Our Team Services Brand Guidelines Start A Project Home Services Open Records Requests Services Advertising Content and Editorial Design Email Distribution Media Relations Open Records Photography Social Media Trademarks and Licensing Crafter's Program Bakery Program Trademarks and Guidelines Unlicensed Product Reporting Vendors Become a licensed vendor Promotional products vendor University printers Video Web Resources and Guidelines Patternlab Template Boostrap Template Web Accessibility Guidelines Request A Website Code Release Updates Open Records Requests Oklahoma State University is subject to the provisions of the Oklahoma Open Records Act, which ensures and facilitates the public’s right of access to and review of government records. OSU launched a new system in fall 2021 to streamline service and the delivery of records. OSU is committed to providing customer-friendly service in processing the requests. Records gathered in response to an open records request are reviewed for possible exemptions provided by law. Requests for records that must be reviewed/redacted as allowed/required by law for certain confidential information or FERPA- or HIPAA-protected information may take longer to deliver. Requests must seek existing records or documents maintained by OSU. Fees: OSU charges for directory information gathered by its division of Institutional Research and Analytics. Requestors will be notified of the fee and provided a way to pay before records are delivered. At this time, OSU does not charge for other requests. Record Delivery: Once gathered and after any necessary review, the existing records responsive to the specific request will be delivered via email or secure drive. Helpful tips: Once you begin your request, you will be provided with a list of options outlining typical records request categories. Please read the list below. Choosing the right type of record will deliver your request to the department that maintains the records. If you don’t know which category fits your request, please choose “Other,” and we will route the request for you. Note the time frame for your request when applicable. For example, if requesting directory information for students, note the year(s) or semesters you would like included. When making a request involving emails or other communications, narrow your search as much as possible to expedite the request. Keywords are helpful in creating a request that will include the data you’re interested in without adding irrelevant emails that will lengthen the review process. For more information, review the help guide. Please review the categories below before selecting “Create Request” at the bottom. Typical records requested include: Athletic Contracts Example: Coaches’ contracts Athletic NCAA Financial Compliance Athletic Records, Non-Contract Examples: Student-athlete information General University Records Examples: Emails, meeting minutes, and internal documents. Institutional and Student Data Examples: Directory information, faculty and staff demographic data, student performance data, institutional research, and performance related requests. No personal data will be provided except as allowed by OSU’s Directory Information policy and/or applicable law. Police Records Examples: Crime and accident reports information owned by the OSU Police Department. Purchasing Examples: Construction bids, requests for proposal, construction contracts Other If you do not believe your request fits an option listed above, or you are not sure which one is most appropriate, please select "Other" when you reach the drop-down menu. CREATE REQUEST Questions about the process? Email openrecords@okstate.edu. Other ways to make a request By mail: Please download and print this form. Fill it out and mail your request to: Oklahoma State University Open Records 305 Whitehurst Stillwater, OK 74078 In person: Stop by 305 Whitehurst. Metered parking is available in front of the building. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©