Summer Session 2 closes on Wednesday, June 1; apply today! Program Curriculum Career Exploration Team Capstone Project Reviews & Testimonials Admissions Applying to Bridge Session Dates Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Attend an Admissions Event News About Meet Our Faculty Meet Our Team Recruit at Tuck Bridge Contact Us Give to Bridge Tuck Business Bridge Program Program Curriculum Career Exploration Team Capstone Project Reviews & Testimonials Admissions Applying to Bridge Session Dates Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Attend an Admissions Event News About Meet Our Faculty Meet Our Team Recruit at Tuck Bridge Contact Us Give to Bridge Apply Tuck Business Bridge Program Bridge Your Future The Tuck Business Bridge Program is a total immersion business program designed to prepare top liberal arts and STEM undergrads and recent grads for challenging careers in business and beyond. Why Bridge? Strong business foundations for Liberal Arts and STEM majors Business Bridge Program® provides you with essential business skills by combining an intensive classroom experience at a world-class business school and the hands-on training of an internship–all designed to help you launch a rewarding career. Designed for top liberal arts and STEM undergraduates and recent grads, the Business Bridge certificate program delivers a comprehensive business curriculum taught by top-ranked MBA faculty from the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, a capstone team project, recruiting services, and one-on-one career guidance. Upcoming Sessions Summer Bridge 2022 Application now open Session 1: June 13–July 1, 2022 (In-person) Session 2: July 8–July 26, 2022 (In-person) How to apply Winter Bridge 2022/23 Application opens August 1, 2022 Session 1: November 27–December 16, 2022 (In-person) Session 2: January 1–20, 2023 (Virtual Program Pending) Get to Know Bridge Business Bridge provides participants with essential business skills by combining an intensive classroom experience at a world-class business school and the hands-on training of an internship–all designed to help launch a rewarding career. View our brochure and example schedule for a greater understanding of the uniqueness of this fully immersive program. Program Admissions News Give Would you like to learn more about Tuck Bridge? Request Information Request Information Loading... × CONTACT US 603-646-6459 TuckBridge@tuck.dartmouth.edu Stay Connected TUCK SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AT DARTMOUTH © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved.