retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content utexas.edu MENU Search Search About Challenges Planet Texas 2050 Whole Communities–Whole Health Good Systems Projects News Events Connect Whole Communities, Whole Health WHOLE COMMUNITIES–WHOLE HEALTH Changing the way science helps society thrive is our grand challenge. Advances in science give us the unprecedented ability to understand health and human behavior and use that knowledge to extend our quality and length of life. But when it comes to life expectancy, ZIP code continues to matter more than genetic code. We all live here Science and technology aren’t serving everyone equally. Communities with access to fewer resources face unacceptable health disparities. That’s why Whole Communities–Whole Health is designing a 5-year cohort study to understand how physical and emotional adversity, biology, and the environment affect the health of families facing systemic injustice. We’ve spent the last few years collecting data about social determinants of health while listening to people living and working in marginalized communities in eastern Travis County — asking what matters most to them when it comes to building a more socially just, equitable, and healthy future for their families. While researchers have a wealth of knowledge in their specific fields, families facing challenges are experts in their own experiences. In conversations with these families, we’re hearing a deep desire to secure a happy, healthy future for their children and frustration with problems outside of their control, like air and water pollution where they live and poor access to grocery stores, greenspace, and health care. Including the Whole Community These insights and expertise will inform our cohort study as we uncover the factors that affect the overall health of those who have been historically left out of the research process. We will then return the information we learn as quickly as possible so that families and partner organizations can make changes that ensure better health in the future. To better address what matters most to families facing health disparities, we have to reimagine the way we approach community-based research. That means including participants early and often in the process. Looking at the Whole Picture Our researchers are looking at hundreds of variables that affect health, both at the individual and systemic levels. By combining information about a home’s environmental quality with medical health markers, interactive family surveys, and community-level information, we’ll help develop a more holistic picture of health over time. Bringing Science Home Families can choose to have access to technology that will measure health factors like indoor air quality, sleep habits, mood, or physical activity. Then we’ll share our results in real time through a smartphone app so participants can make informed decisions about their own health. Community partners also will use the data we gather, aggregated and anonymized, to advocate for changes at the city and county level to improve issues affecting the health of the entire community. Español Upcoming Events No events at this time. View all Events Phone Resources Local Health Resources Call 2-1-1 CommunityCare COVID-19 hotline 512-978-8775 Children’s Wellness Center 512-386-3335 Children’s Wellness Center Telehealth Counseling 512-386-3336 Integral Care 24/7 Mental Health Helpline 512-472-HELP (4357) For Families Interested in Participating in Research Sign Up annual report Explore the most recent Whole Communities–Whole Health annual report or browse our past reports. Latest News View all May 23, 2022 Whole Communities–Whole Health Interdisciplinary Research Opportunity Leads to Former Student’s Role at NASA January 5, 2022 Whole Communities–Whole Health UT Austin Resumes COVID-19 Wastewater Testing After Funding Pause December 2, 2021 Whole Communities–Whole Health Whole Communities–Whole Health Study Goes Mobile Meet the Team View all Whole Communities–Whole Health brings researchers and advisors together from wide-ranging backgrounds across UT and Central Texas in partnership with community advocates and experts. The theme organizing committee below represents the Moody College of Communication, College of Education, College of Liberal Arts, School of Nursing, the Cockrell School of Engineering, and Dell Medical School. Visit our full team page to see the full list of Whole Communities–Whole Health researchers, community advisors, and staff. Michael Mackert Professor Advertising & Public Relations / Population Health Gigi Awad Associate Professor Educational Psychology Sarah Kate Bearman Assistant Professor Educational Psychology / Psychiatry Darla Castelli Professor Kinesiology and Health Education Frances Champagne Professor Psychology Karen Johnson Associate Professor Nursing Kerry Kinney Professor Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering Karla Lawson Clinical Assistant Professor Surgery and Perioperative Care / Population Health Zoltan Nagy Assistant Professor Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering David Schnyer Professor Psychology / Psychiatry Sean Upshaw Assistant Professor Stan Richards School of Advertising and Public Relations Explore our interactive network map to see how different researchers, schools, and organizations are connected to Whole Communities–Whole Health. Search by name, CSU, or project or click any node on the map and pause to see its connections appear. You can magnify or expand the view, and you can click on any individual to see which projects they’ve been affiliated with. Contact us Phone 512-232-9242 Email BridgingBarriers@austin.utexas.edu Social media OVPR @Planet_TX @UTAustin_WCWH @UTGoodSystems Challenges Planet Texas 2050 Whole Communities–Whole Health Good Systems Quicklinks About us Projects News UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022