retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content utexas.edu MENU Search Search About Challenges Planet Texas 2050 Whole Communities–Whole Health Good Systems Projects News Events Connect Good Systems Good Systems Designing AI technologies that benefit society is our grand challenge. AI-based technologies are helping us solve complex problems in nearly every discipline and industry, but they have the capacity to be harmful to us in ways we might not predict or intend. Coexisting with AI Artificial intelligence is a system that can correctly interpret data, learn from it, and then use what it has learned to adapt in order to achieve specific goals autonomously. It improves our everyday lives, but not without risk. AI is changing the way we do everything because it’s everywhere — from dating apps to the most advanced military weapons systems. AI does many things faster and better than humans can alone, but there are ethical and societal implications to consider. How can we ensure that AI is beneficial — not detrimental — to humanity? What unintended consequences are we overlooking by developing technology that can be manipulated and misused? It is ethically irresponsible to focus only on what AI can do. We believe it is equally important to ask what it should (and should not) do. Our goal is to better understand what changes new technologies will bring, predict how those changes will unfold, and mitigate the harms or unintended consequences they could cause while still leveraging the benefits AI provides. To do that, our team brings students and researchers together from more than two dozen schools and units on The University of Texas at Austin campus to investigate how to define, evaluate, and build a “Good System.” Upcoming Events No events at this time. View all Events Past Annual Symposia 2022 | 2020 Support this challenge Core research projects Explore all projects Our team is working to establish a framework for evaluating, developing, implementing, and regulating AI-based technologies so they reflect human values. In 2021, we launched a set of six core research projects, which explore critical topics including surveillance inquiry, disinformation, smart cities, racial justice, human-machine partnerships, and the future of work. Racial Justice AI and the Future of Racial Justice Explores racial disparities in AI-based systems and seeks to design and implement solutions in the areas of public safety, transportation, and health. Keep Reading SURVEILLANCE Being Watched: Embedding Ethics in Public Cameras Investigates the social acceptance of cameras and video data and how to develop technical solutions that will satisfy privacy concerns. Keep Reading Robot / Human Partnerships Living and Working with Robots Aiming to overcome the technical and social hurdles to deploying robots by building and studying them in the communities where they will be used. Keep Reading Combating Disinformation Designing Responsible AI Technologies to Curb Disinformation Employs machine learning to understand how disinformation arises and spreads and how to design effective human-centered interventions. Keep Reading Smart Cities A Good System for Smart Cities Seeks to build a system that will link city datasets to predict the effects of urban development projects, including Austin’s Project Connect. Keep Reading Smart tools Making Smart Tools Work for Everyone Designs smart hand tools that have embedded AI to empower workers to accomplish more while keeping their jobs secure. Keep Reading Annual Report Explore the most recent Good Systems annual report or browse our past reports. Latest News View all May 4, 2022 Good Systems Good Systems Awards Summer Fellowships to Faculty, Researchers and Graduate Students March 11, 2022 Good Systems Smart Cities Cannot Be Surveillance Cities March 9, 2022 Good Systems Good Systems Announces Summer Research Opportunities Meet the Team View all Good Systems’ Executive Team represents the College of Liberal Arts, the College of Natural Sciences, the Moody College of Communication, the Cockrell School of Engineering, the LBJ School of Public Affairs, the School of Architecture, and the School of Information. Visit our full team page to see the full list of Good Systems researchers, affiliates, and staff. Samuel Baker Chair and Founding Member English Chandra Bhat Founding Member Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering Kenneth R. Fleischmann Founding Chair School of Information Sherri Greenberg Professor of Practice LBJ School of Public Affairs Junfeng Jiao Past Chair and Founding Member School of Architecture Stacey Ingram Kaleh Network Relationship Manager Office of the Vice President for Research, Scholarship and Creative Endeavors Matthew Lease Founding Member School of Information Lea Sabatini Program Director Office of the Vice President for Research, Scholarship and Creative Endeavors Luis Sentis Associate Professor Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Peter Stone Founding Member Computer Science Sharon Strover Chair-Elect and Founding Member School of Journalism and Media Explore our interactive network map to see how different researchers, schools, and organizations are connected to Good Systems. Search by name, CSU, or project or click any node on the map and pause to see its connections appear. You can magnify or expand the view, and you can click on any individual to see which projects they’ve been affiliated with. Contact us Phone 512-232-9242 Email BridgingBarriers@austin.utexas.edu Social media OVPR @Planet_TX @UTAustin_WCWH @UTGoodSystems Challenges Planet Texas 2050 Whole Communities–Whole Health Good Systems Quicklinks About us Projects News UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022