Skip to main content Toggle navigation UNM A-Z myUNM Directory The University of New Mexico UNM A-Z myUNM Directory Help StudentInfo FastInfo Bringing Back the Pack Expectations Students & Instructors Students & Instructors Student Guide Instructor Guide Housing Residence Life & Student Housing Closures Behaviors & Safety Measures UNM Food Lobocard Office Employees HR Guidance for Employees Self-Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis (Policy) Managing Symptoms, Exposure and Positive Cases Non-Compliance with CSPs - Staff Non-Compliance with CSPs - Faculty Additional COVID-19 Paid Leave Temporary Annual Leave (Policy) Workplace Accommodation Requests Campus Protocols Campus Security & Safety COVID Safe Practices COVID Safe Practices Signage Temporary Closures for COVID-Related Cleaning Facility Guidance for Suspected COVID Exposure Visitors Vendors and Contractors Events & Event Planning Shuttle Rider Guide Research Guidelines Guidelines for Main and Branch Campus Research On-Campus Research and Creative Work Facilities Off Campus Research Laboratories/Facilities Research with Human Participants Community Engaged Projects and Creative Work Field Work Performance Spaces Museums Travel Summer Programs Memo from UNM IRB Protecting the Pack Resources Targeted Testing Need Help? Vaccination, Testing & Masking Requirements FAQ Vaccine FAQ COVID-19 Vaccine Information for the UNM Community Vaccine Requirement Vaccine Requirement Exemption Forms Processes for Non-Compliance UNM Home The Pack is Back: A Safe Return to Campus Vaccination, Testing & Masking Requirements Expectations Students & Instructors Vaccine Information Campus Protocols Business Processes Research Guidelines Protecting the Pack Self-Report Portal UNM Covid Dashboard Frequently Asked Questions HSC Return to Full Operations Welcome to the Spring 2022 Semester. Here's what you need to know. Latest Guidance: Effective March 19, The University of New Mexico will no longer require masks to be worn indoors at our campuses located in counties that are considered at low or medium COVID-19 community level by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). In alignment with current public health orders, we are continuing to require masks at facilities associated with the health system and HSC academic and research spaces, where close contact with the clinical environment requires continued masking. This includes facilities in the north campus HSC academic and research facilities, as well as at the HSC Rio Rancho campus. And to comply with local and federal guidelines, masks continue to be required on public transportation, including UNM shuttles and buses. Please be aware that several large campus venues have also updated their COVID-19 protocols, with some variation among facilities. Before you attend an event at Popejoy Hall or University Arena, for instance, please check with the venue to find out what’s required for admittance. Individuals with exemptions to UNM’s vaccination mandate will now be able to submit results of a PCR, NAAT or rapid antigen test. This includes the use of an in-home, rapid antigen test, but test results must be dated and a different image of a new test result with a date must be supplied each week. This is a revision of our earlier policy, which did not permit the submission of results of a rapid antigen test. The University of New Mexico will be following the latest guidance from the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and the New Mexico Department of Health (NMDOH) on quarantining or isolating following a positive test for COVID. Previous guidance required a ten day quarantine/isolation period; the new guidance will require a quarantine or isolation period of five days. The University of New Mexico now requires all current employees and students to receive a booster dose of the vaccine when eligible according to the FDA. Please refer to the updated vaccination mandate for more information. UNM COVID-Safe Event Protocols: At all indoor UNM events, including University Arena and Popejoy Hall, event organizers may choose to require those in attendance to be masked and/or provide proof of vaccination or a negative COVID test dated within the last 72 hours. Such proof may be actual cards or documents or photographs on a mobile device. In some instances, on-site testing may also be available. Continuing Guidance: The University of New Mexico, including our Health Sciences Center (HSC), is working hard to responsibly “Bring Back the Pack” by enacting a comprehensive plan to move our campus back to a fully operational status. Please check the UNM COVID Dashboard for the latest results on daily screenings, including any reported positives. Guidance is available for instructors on what to do if a student informs you they have tested positive for COVID-19. Processes for Non-Compliance with Administrative Mandates On Required COVID-19 Vaccination Go Lobos! © The University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111 New Mexico's Flagship University UNM on Facebook UNM on Instagram UNM on Twitter UNM on YouTube more at social.unm.edu Accessibility Legal Contact UNM Consumer Information New Mexico Higher Education Dashboard