Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture © Revelateur Studio, Arnaud Marthouret 2019 © Revelateur Studio, Arnaud Marthouret 2019 © Revelateur Studio, Arnaud Marthouret 2019 Paintings and Sculpture The Department of Paintings and Sculpture is responsible for a collection of over 2,000 paintings and 250 sculptures from the late medieval to the contemporary. Particularly strong in the period from 1720 to 1850, the collection is unrivaled in the depth and comprehensiveness of its representation of painting from this era, especially in telling the stories of portrait, landscape, and sporting art. The Center also has the finest group of paintings by George Stubbs, John Constable, and J. M. W. Turner in North America. The collection accepts implicitly the transnational character of British painting and is strong in the art of the British Empire and increasingly in the art of the postcolonial present. Sculpture is represented by outstanding examples of portraits in different media, animalier bronzes, and ideal marbles, as well as important modern and contemporary work by such artists as Rachel Whiteread and Yinka Shonibare CBE RA. George Stubbs, Zebra (detail), 1763 Featured works J. M. W. Turner, Dort or Dordrecht: The Dort Packet-Boat from Rotterdam Becalmed, 1818 Ford Madox Brown, The Irish Girl, 1860 Sir Peter Paul Rubens, Peace Embracing Plenty, between 1633 and 1634 George Stubbs, Zebra, exhibited 1763 Barbara Hepworth, Biolith, 1948 to 1949 Yinka Shonibare CBE (RA), Mrs Pinckney and the Emancipated Birds of South Carolina, 2017 Studio of Francis Harwood, Bust of a Man, ca. 1758 William Larkin, Portrait of a Young Lady, possibly Jane, Lady Thornhaugh, 1617 Rachel Whiteread, Untitled (Ten Tables), 1996 John Constable, Hadleigh Castle, The Mouth of the Thames—Morning after a Stormy Night, 1829 Sir Joshua Reynolds, Mrs. Abington as Miss Prue in "Love for Love" by William Congreve, 1771 Ben Nicholson, 1940 (composition), 1940–47 James McNeill Whistler, Nocturne in Blue and Silver, 1872 to 1878 Close Details Previous 0/0 Next Download J. M. W. Turner Dort or Dordrecht: The Dort Packet-Boat from Rotterdam Becalmed 1818, oil on canvas Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection View object record Ford Madox Brown The Irish Girl 1860, Oil on canvas laid on board Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Fund View object record Sir Peter Paul Rubens Peace Embracing Plenty between 1633 and 1634, oil on panel Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection View object record George Stubbs Zebra exhibited 1763, oil on canvas Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection View object record Barbara Hepworth Biolith 1948 to 1949, Blue limestone Yale Center for British Art, Gift of Virginia Vogel Mattern in memory of her husband, W. Gray Mattern, Class of 1946 View object record Yinka Shonibare CBE (RA) Mrs Pinckney and the Emancipated Birds of South Carolina 2017, Fiberglass mannequin, Dutch wax-printed cotton textile, birdcage, birds, leather, and globe Yale Center for British Art, Acquired with funds from the Bequest of Daniel S. Kalk, the Director's Discretionary Fund, and the Friends of British Art Fund View object record Studio of Francis Harwood Bust of a Man ca. 1758, black limestone on a yellow marble socle Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection View object record William Larkin Portrait of a Young Lady, possibly Jane, Lady Thornhaugh 1617, oil on panel Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Fund View object record Rachel Whiteread Untitled (Ten Tables) 1996, plaster Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Fund View object record John Constable Hadleigh Castle, The Mouth of the Thames—Morning after a Stormy Night 1829, oil on canvas Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection View object record Sir Joshua Reynolds Mrs. Abington as Miss Prue in "Love for Love" by William Congreve 1771, oil on canvas Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection View object record Ben Nicholson 1940 (composition) 1940–47, gouache and graphite on board Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection, courtesy of the artist's estate, © ARS/DACS 2020 View object record James McNeill Whistler Nocturne in Blue and Silver 1872 to 1878, butterfly added ca. 1885, oil on canvas Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Fund View object record Explore the Center's Collections Over 100,000 records from the Paintings and Sculpture, Prints and Drawings, Rare Books and Manuscripts, Reference Library, and Archives collections are searchable online, along with nearly all of the Center's historic frames. Begin your search Philippe Mercier, The Sense of Sight (detail), 1744 to 1747 Contact the Paintings and Sculpture department at ycba.paintings@yale.edu | +1 203 432 2844 | +1 203 432 4538 fax Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us