Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography The View From Here is a free, semester-long photography-based program for young adults in Greater New Haven. Now in its second year, the program is held at the Yale Center for British Art and the Lens Media Lab (LML) at Yale’s Institute for the Preservation of Cultural Heritage. The View From Here seeks to deepen young people’s engagement with visual art by exposing them to the history, materials, and practice of photography. Students learn the essential principles of taking and composing their own photographs using a smartphone or personal digital device. Working with curators, museum staff, Yale faculty, and photographers, students gain access to unique workshops, experiences, and mentorships. The program culminates in an exhibition of students’ work. The program will run from September 15 through December 15, 2022. There will be weekly meetings on Thursdays, from 3 to 5 pm, with additional group workshops on occasional Saturdays. A final exhibition of the students’ work will be on view in spring 2023. For more information and to register, click here. Play Inaugural Exhibition (2021) From August 16 through October 10, 2021, projections of the work of the twelve student-photographers could be viewed through the windows of the museum. As such, it was the first YCBA exhibition to feature art on the exterior walls of the museum. Visible every evening from sunset to midnight on High Street, the closed museum became a space that opened a new view onto the city. The exhibition is also presented here on YCBA's website, where personal statements written by the students are exhibited with their photographs, speaking to community, family, and a shared sense of space. View the exhibition Contact the Education department at ycba.education@yale.edu | +1 203 432 2858 Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us