Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture © Elizabeth Felicella / ESTO © Elizabeth Felicella / ESTO © Elizabeth Felicella / ESTO Study Room The Study Room is open to the Yale community and to non-Yale researchers who have been fully vaccinated and boosted, when eligible. The Study Room provides access to works in the YCBA’s Prints and Drawings, Rare Books and Manuscripts, and Archives collections. The Study Room is also used for teaching with these collections, and staff members are available for advice on planning classes. Hours and registration The Study Room is open to the Yale community as well as non-Yale researchers who have been fully vaccinated and boosted, when eligible. All non-Yale researchers must register their vaccination status with the University one week prior to their arrival. For detailed instructions, please refer to the Guide to Using Special Collections at Yale. Please contact the Study Room to schedule your visit. Reservations can be made in one-hour segments from Tuesday to Friday, 10 am–noon and 1–3 pm. Schedule your visit Previsit requirements and visitor guidelines To access collection materials in the Study Room, Yale visitors must Request materials at least two business days in advance by using the YCBA’s online catalogue, Orbis, or Archives at Yale. Have a confirmed seat reservation at least two business days in advance by emailing ycba.studyroom@yale.edu to make those arrangements. A follow-up email will be sent when an appointment is confirmed. To access collections materials in the Study Room, non-Yale visitors must Create an account using our online system, Aeon. Register vaccination status with the University prior to arrival. Select the long-term visitor option, and enter special.collections@yale.edu as the host email. Please allow up to one week for your vaccination staus to be verified. Request materials at least two business days in advance by using the YCBA’s online catalogue, Orbis, or Archives at Yale. Have a confirmed seat reservation at least two business days in advance by emailing ycba.studyroom@yale.edu to make those arrangements. A follow-up email will be sent when an appointment is confirmed. Due to limited capacity in the Study Room, there may be a waiting period for appointments. We encourage you to reserve a seat as early as possible. Study Room staff cannot provide drop-in or same-day access. Please note that some materials may be unavailable or take longer than two business days for retrieval. View visitor guidelines Request a class The YCBA welcomes Yale faculty and students for object-based classes in the Study Room. Faculty are encouraged to contact Study Room staff as soon as possible with class requests. In following with public health and Yale University guidelines, please note that there are capacity limitations. Although the museum is not able to host external groups at this time, we may be able to offer online object sessions via Zoom. The Study Room’s staff look forward to working with you to ensure a rewarding learning experience for your students. Request a class visit Explore the YCBA's Collections Over 100,000 records from the Paintings and Sculpture, Prints and Drawings, Rare Books and Manuscripts, Reference Library, and Archives collections are searchable online, along with nearly all of the museum's historic frames. Begin your search Philippe Mercier, The Sense of Sight (detail), 1744 to 1747 For further information, please contact the Study Room at ycba.studyroom@yale.edu | +1 203 432 2840. Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us