Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture Color Our Collections Grab your crayons, paints, markers, or app and show us your best color work. Stay true to the original or get creative! Instructions Here are a few ideas to help you get started: Download one of our coloring book plates. Look closely at the artworks from our collections. Find what’s missing between the lines. Use your imagination and get creative. Add things that you don’t already see: animals, flowers, or your favorite person. Be as realistic or as silly as you’d like! How does the mood of the image change when you try different methods? Need an app? Download Adobe Illustrator Draw for Android or iPhone. Coloring book plates Color a plate inspired by John Constable's Cloud Study. Learn more about the artist's work. Download our plate Color a plate inspired by George Stubbs's Brown and White Norfolk or Water Spaniel. Learn more about the artist’s work. Download our plate Color a plate inspired by C. R. W. Nevinson's The Wave. Learn more about the artist’s work. Download our plate Color a plate inspired by Robert Peake the Elder’s A Woman Called Lady Clopton of Kentwell Hall. Learn more about the artist’s work. Download our plate Color a plate inspired by Sir Edwin Henry Landseer’s Portrait of Mr. Van Amburgh As He Appeared with His Animals at the London Theatres. Learn more about the artist’s work. Download our plate Color a plate inspired by Joseph Mallord William Turner’s Dort or Dordrecht: The Dort packet-boat from Rotterdam becalmed. Learn more about the artist’s work. Download our plate Color a plate inspired by George Stubbs’s Zebra. Learn more about the artist’s work. Download our plate We’d like to see your work. Share your creations by tagging @yalebritishart or email us at ycba.info@yale.edu. #YCBAdraw Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us