Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture © Revelateur Studio, Arnaud Marthouret 2019 © Revelateur Studio, Arnaud Marthouret 2019 © Revelateur Studio, Arnaud Marthouret 2019 Directions and Parking The Center is located at 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, between High and York Streets. The main entrance is on the southwest corner of Chapel and High Streets. Map Directions By Public Transportation Metro-North, Amtrak, and Shoreline East provide train service to New Haven’s Union and State Street Stations. Public transportation between Union Station and the New Haven Green is available by free CT Transit Shuttle and Yale University Shuttle (Monday–Friday) or CT Transit bus 272. Please visit CT Transit for local bus service to the Center from your area. By Car From I-95, northbound or southbound, take Exit 47 Downtown New Haven/Rt 34. Take the exit to York Street and turn right. Follow York Street through two traffic lights, and the Center’s lot is on the right. From I-91, take Exit 1 Downtown New Haven. Parking Visitors may park in the LAZ lot at 161 York Street (behind the museum) or the LAZ garage at 150 York Street. Additional parking is available in other area lots and metered spaces on the street around the Center. For more information about parking in downtown New Haven, visit The Shops at Yale. Please note that parking availability may be limited due to COVID-19 closures. Please contact LAZ for more information. Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us