Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture Reference Library and Photograph Archives The Reference Library is currently open to Yale faculty, students, and staff who have been approved to be on campus, as well as non-Yale researchers who have been fully vaccinated and boosted, when eligible. Yale visitors, please use this form to schedule your visit. Non-Yale visitors, please email ycba.reference@yale.edu to schedule your visit. Reference Library The Reference Library collections are open to researchers of all types who are welcome to browse over 40,000 titles and over 120 current periodicals devoted to British art, artists, and culture from the fifteenth century to the present. The collections include all of the essential reference works on British artists and also contain resources on British architecture, print and book culture, performing arts, costume, town and county histories, and travel books. The Reference Library maintains a growing and vital collection of art conservation and technical analysis materials as well. Photograph Archives The Photograph Archives, located within the Reference Library, is a study collection of almost 150,000 photographic reproductions of British works of art from the sixteenth to the early twentieth century. The archives represents both public and private collections worldwide with a particular focus on collections in the United States, Canada, and Australia. The Reference Library’s holdings, exclusive of the Photograph Archives, can be searched online either independently or in conjunction with the Center’s art and rare books collections, as well as through Orbis, Yale Library’s online catalogue. Reference Library FAQs Reading Room Policies and Procedures Hours and registration The Reference Library is open only to Yale faculty, students, and staff who have been approved to be on campus as well as non-Yale researchers who have been fully vaccinated and boosted, when eligible. All non-Yale visitors must register their vaccination status with the University one week prior to their arrival. For detailed instructions, please refer to the Guide to Using Special Collections at Yale. Please email ycba.reference@yale.edu to schedule your visit. During the Yale summer recess, reservations can be made in one-hour segments from Tuesday through Friday, 10 am–3 pm. Schedule your visit Previsit requirements To access the Reference Library, Yale visitors must Schedule an appointment using this form at least 24 hours in advance. *Please note that a Yale CAS login is required and appointments are scheduled in one-hour segments. If more than one hour is needed, reserve back-to-back sessions (there is no reservation limit). To access the Reference Library, non-Yale visitors must Create an account using our online system, Aeon. Register vaccination status with University prior to arrival. Select the long-term visitor option and enter special.collections@yale.edu as the host email. Please allow up to one week for your vaccination status to be verified. Have a confirmed seat reservation at least 24 hours in advance by contacting ycba.reference@yale.edu to schedule your visit. Visitor guidelines To use the Reference Library, visitors must follow these onsite rules: Bring your Yale ID or photo ID and check in at the museum's Information Desk. All visitors and staff are required to wear a mask that covers the nose and mouth. Consume no food or drink. Research Resources The Reference Library staff will provide responses to questions about artists and objects in the museum’s collections as well as about British artists. Please be as specific as possible with your request. History of British Art Research Guide Conservation for Cultural Heritage Collections: Museums, Libraries and Archives Collecting and Provenance Research British Country Houses, Gardens, and Castles William Blake at Yale Ask a Librarian Study Room The Study Room provides access to works in the museum’s Archives, Prints and Drawings, and Rare Books and Manuscripts collections. The Study Room is also used for teaching from these collections, and staff members are available for advice on planning classes. Learn more Explore the YCBA's Collections Over 100,000 records from the Paintings and Sculpture, Prints and Drawings, Rare Books and Manuscripts, Reference Library, and Archives collections are searchable online, along with nearly all of the museum's historic frames. Begin your search Philippe Mercier, The Sense of Sight (detail), 1744 to 1747 Contact the Reference Library and Photograph Archives at ycba.reference@yale.edu | +1 203 432 2818 | +1 203 432 7180 fax Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us