Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture Job Opportunities The Yale Center for British Art offers a dynamic work environment, with opportunities for staff to enrich and develop their love of the arts while contributing their skills and talents to the mission of the museum. Positions require all levels of education, experience, and training. Our hiring process is managed by Yale University Human Resources. As a large research university, Yale employs nearly 10,000 staff to support fourteen residential colleges, nine professional schools, three museums, and countless administrative departments. For more information about employment at Yale University, including benefits, visit the university’s employment website. Yale University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. Yale considers applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, an individual’s sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. Open Positions Chief Archivist Reporting to the Deputy Director for Research, the Chief archivist leads and manages the YCBA's Archives as a professional repository dedicated to the histories of British art, Paul Mellon, and the Yale Center for British Art. The Chief Archivist will be responsible for all aspects of the Archives, including records management, collection development, accessioning, description, preservation, and access to the Center’s archival holdings Chief of Security Reporting to the Deputy Director for Finance and Administration, the Chief of Security oversees all aspects of security at the Yale Center for British Art's locations, and ensures the safety of visitors, staff, and artwork while contributing to creating a welcoming environment. Communications Manager Under the direction of the Head of Communications and Marketing, the Communications Manager is responsible for managing all aspects of the Center’s website (britishart.yale.edu), as well as other digital projects, working closely with the communications and technical teams to create written and visual content, maintain site standards and compliance with Yale University’s open-access and accessibility policies. Curator of Paintings and Sculpture Reporting to the Deputy Director and Chief Curator, the Curator of Paintings and Sculpture will oversee a renowned collection of works ranging from the Tudor period to the present day. The Curator will initiate a dynamic and rigorous program of collections displays, loan exhibitions, publications, website projects, and interpretive strategies that contribute to the visibility of the museum's holdings and increase audience engagement. Curator of Prints and Drawings Reporting to the Deputy Director and Chief Curator, the Curator of Prints and Drawings will oversee the museum’s renowned collection of works on paper, and develop a dynamic and rigorous program of exhibitions and publications that enhances the collection’s profile and increases audience engagement. Educator, K-8, Family, and Access Programs Reporting to the Head of Education, the Educator will be responsible for cultivating and strengthening museum education-based experiences through innovative and interactive gallery programs. Additionally, the Educator will develop programming to support the curricula of New Haven schools, and will be responsible for after-school and weekend professional development programs for teachers. Head of Information Technology Reporting to the Deputy Director for Finance and Administration and working with Yale University Information Technology Services, the Head of IT has full responsibility for institutional IT systems at the YCBA. The Head of IT leads the museum's technology operations, establishes and maintains IT policies, and represents the YCBA across Yale University and in the field of art museums nationally and internationally. Head of Publications The Head of Publications sets and implements the strategic direction of the YCBA's award-winning publications program, aligning it with the museum's mission and foregrounding its collections, exhibitions, and architecture. Reporting to the Deputy Director and Chief Curator, the Head of Publications plays a key role in advancing the YCBA's publishing profile, working across printed and digital formats, including books, catalogues, brochures, exhibition materials, and a variety of scholarly and interpretative content. Head of Study Room The Head of Study Room stewards the public operations of the musuem's Study Room, which provides access to its collections of prints, drawings, photographs, rare books, manuscripts, and archives. Reporting to the Deputy Director for Research, the Head of Study Room provides leadership and direction for a broad range of services and programs that support and expand the use of the Center’s collections by a wide range of audiences, including faculty and students from area colleges and universities, the international scholarly community, and the general public. Reference Librarian Reporting to the Chief Librarian of the Reference Library, the Librarian assists in the day-to-day activities of the library including reference services, bibliographic instruction and orientations to a diverse clientele consisting of Yale students and faculty, YCBA staff, visiting researchers, docents, student guides, and the general public. The Librarian is responsible for reference services and instruction as well as managing Scan and Deliver functions during the weekend hours of the library. The Librarian also serves as on-site manager (as needed) to Study Room staff during Library and Study Room weekend hours. Senior Administrative Assistant, Curatorial Division Reporting to the Deputy Director and Chief Curator, the Senior Administrative Assistant provides high level support for the programs and projects of the division. Essential duties include providing administrative assistance to the Deputy Director and Chief Curator, scheduling meetings, taking notes, handling correspondence, tracking budgets, setting up contracts, and creating production and implementation schedules for all exhibitions and displays. Graduate Research Assistantships These research positions enhance the educational experiences provided by academic course work and teaching assistantships at the university, allowing students to extend their range of academic specializations and expertise, and to augment research skills by direct contact with objects in the collections. If necessary, these positions may be offered remotely in accordance with Yale policy. Learn more here. Internships The Center, supported by the generosity of Nancy Horton Bartels and her late husband, Henry E. Bartels, is pleased to offer academic-year and summer internships to Yale undergraduates. Learn more here. Student Guide Program The Student Guide Program offers Yale undergraduates from all disciplines the opportunity to engage with original works of art and become familiar with a variety of museum departments. Learn more here. Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us