Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture Hours and visitor guidelines The Yale Center for British Art is open Tuesdays through Saturdays from 10 am to 5 pm, and Sundays from noon to 5 pm. Guided tours are offered on Thursdays and Saturdays at 11 am, and on Saturdays and Sundays at 2 pm. Vaccination Guidelines Per Yale University policy, up-to-date COVID vaccination (including booster if eligible) is required for visitors ages five and older. Unvaccinated children under the age of five are allowed to visit. All visitors must be prepared to show COVID-19 vaccination and booster documentation. Acceptable proof of vaccination includes CDC card; MyChart (EPIC) or other medical provider portal record; VAMS certificate; CT WiZ official immunization record; New York Excelsior Pass Plus, as well as photos of vaccine cards, certificates, or records. Additional Health and Safety Guidelines We are committed to the health and safety of our visitors and staff and follow all Yale University policy. Hand sanitizing stations are available throughout the museum. Physical distancing of six feet must be maintained. Capacity is limited in accordance with University guidelines. Advance registration is not required. To help protect visitors and staff, please stay home if you are feeling unwell, are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, or have been diagnosed with COVID-19 within the past ten days. The policies are subject to change or reevaluation. We encourage you to check back here before your visit. Additional Visitor Guidelines Wheelchairs are available for visitors' use. If you require a wheelchair, please inform a staff member upon your arrival. Backpacks, shopping bags, suitcases, umbrellas, and other large items are not permitted in the galleries. Lockers are available on the Lower Level. No food or beverages are allowed in the galleries. Noncommercial, non-flash photography is allowed unless otherwise noted. Please do not touch the art. The Museum Shop is open online. Our physical storefront is closed until further notice. We reserve the right to ask visitors who do not follow these guidelines to leave the museum. Top image Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction installed in the second-floor galleries, photo by Richard Caspole, Yale Center for British Art. Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us