Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture Rare Books and Manuscripts The Department of Rare Books and Manuscripts holds approximately 35,000 volumes. The collection represents a broad range of material relating to the visual arts and cultural life in the United Kingdom and the former British Empire, dating from the fifteenth century to the present. Particular strengths include illustrated “color-plate” books from the renowned J. R. Abbey collection, drawing manuals, sporting books and manuscripts, early maps and atlases, early printed books, private press and contemporary artists’ books, as well as archival and manuscript material relating to British artists, writers, and travelers of all periods. Recent collecting areas include textiles, cartes de visite, photographic albums, printed ephemera, children’s games, and viewing devices. Information about collections in the Department of Rare Books and Manuscripts is accessible using a variety of systems. The Center’s online collection provides access to material from all of its departments. The holdings of Rare Books and Manuscripts are also described in the Yale Libraries’ online catalogue and Archives at Yale, allowing researchers to explore these holdings in combination with other special collections on campus. Rare Books and Manuscripts staff are also available to provide assistance. James Bolton, One of twenty drawings depicting specimens from the natural history cabinet of Anna Blackburne (detail), ca. 1768 Study Room The Study Room provides access to works in the Center’s Prints and Drawings, Rare Books and Manuscripts, and Archives collections. The Study Room is also used for teaching from these collections, and staff members are available for advice on planning classes. Learn more Featured works Lucknow from the Gomti, 1826 Joseph Woods, Signet ring, with motto “Am I not a man and a brother?”, 1787 Naval Woolwork, 1891 Margaret Bryan, Science in sport, or, The pleasure of astronomy : a new & instructive pastime : revised and approved by M. Bryan, of Blackheath, 1815 Reeves & Sons, Box of pigments and implements for painting on china, ca. 1880 Edith C. Crafton, Science Notebook, Completed at South End House, Croyden, 1850 Camille Silvy, Studio Portrait of Emalani Kalanikaumaka'amano Kaleleonalani Na'ea (Queen Emma) of Hawaii, 1865 Abigail Rorer, Bufo the First, 2005 Negretti & Zambra, Stereographoscope : with stereoscopic views of European cities, 1875 James Bolton, One of twenty drawings depicting specimens from the natural history cabinet of Anna Blackburne, ca. 1768 Robert Barker, “Thomas Braythwait making his will,” from The Bible. That Is, The Holy Scriptures Contained in the Old & New Testament, 1607 William Morris, News from Nowhere, or, An Epoch of Rest: Being Some Chapters from a Utopian Romance, 1892 Close Details Previous 0/0 Next Download Lucknow from the Gomti 1826, watercolor on paper Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection View object record Joseph Woods, Signet ring, with motto “Am I not a man and a brother?” 1787, gold with red stone (jasper?) Yale Center for British Art, Gift of Susan M. Yecies, Yale BA 1971 View object record Naval Woolwork 1891, 1 embroidered panel incorporating a tintype : wool and silk on linen backing Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection View object record Margaret Bryan Science in sport, or, The pleasure of astronomy : a new & instructive pastime 1815, hand-colored engraving Yale Center for British Art, Gift of Ellen and Arthur Liman, Yale JD 1957 View object record Reeves & Sons Box of pigments and implements for painting on china ca. 1880, wood box, with pigments, varnish, glass muller, ceramic palettes, brushes, etc. Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Fund View object record Edith C. Crafton Science Notebook, Completed at South End House, Croyden 1850, manuscript, illustrated in pen and ink, with graphite Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Fund View object record Camille Silvy Studio Portrait of Emalani Kalanikaumaka'amano Kaleleonalani Na'ea (Queen Emma) of Hawaii 1865, albumen print, mounted on album leaf Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Fund View object record Abigail Rorer Bufo the First 2005, relief engraving Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection View object record Negretti & Zambra Stereographoscope : with stereoscopic views of European cities 1875, wood, brass, glass, bone Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Fund View object record James Bolton One of twenty drawings depicting specimens from the natural history cabinet of Anna Blackburne ca. 1768, Watercolor and gouache over graphite on parchment Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Fund, in honor of Jane and Richard C. Levin, President of Yale University (1993-2013) View object record Robert Barker “Thomas Braythwait making his will,” from The Bible. That Is, The Holy Scriptures Contained in the Old & New Testament 1607, pen and ink and watercolor with gouache Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Fund View object record William Morris News from Nowhere, or, An Epoch of Rest: Being Some Chapters from a Utopian Romance 1892, Woodcut engraved Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection View object record Explore the Center's Collections Over 100,000 records from the Paintings and Sculpture, Prints and Drawings, Rare Books and Manuscripts, Reference Library, and Institutional Archives collections are searchable online, along with nearly all of the Center's historic frames. Begin your search Philippe Mercier, The Sense of Sight (detail), 1744 to 1747 Contact the Rare Books and Manuscripts department at ycba.rarebooks@yale.edu | ycba.studyroom@yale.edu +1 203 432 2815 | +1 203 432 9613 fax Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us