Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture Tours Explore the architecture, collections, history, and special exhibitions of the Yale Center for British Art with a docent-led tour. In-person public tours have resumed! School and group tours may be arranged through our Education department. In-person tours are limited to fifteen people and spaces are available on a first-come, first-served basis. Reservations are not required. Meet in the Entrance Court. See our general visitor guidelines here. For more information, please contact our Education department. Contact us Introductory Tour Thursdays and Saturdays at 11 am ET Join our museum docents for a guided introduction to the Yale Center for British Art, its collections, and iconic modernist building designed by architect Louis I. Kahn. Tours will highlight the breadth of works on view in the fourth-floor galleries—including masterpieces by John Constable, Joshua Reynolds, George Stubbs, and J. M. W. Turner. Special Exhibition Tour | Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Saturdays and Sundays at 2 pm ET Join our museum docents for a guided tour of Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction. Selected by the artist and displayed on two floors, the works in this exhibition comprise the largest survey of work by British abstract artist Bridget Riley (b. 1931) in the United States in more than twenty years. Private and School Tours Guided tours of the collections are offered by our Education department. The museum's docents lead interactive tours for private groups and visiting school children of all ages and abilities. Upon request, tours may be customized to connect content from the collections to specific interests or class curricula. Contact us Smartify app The Smartify mobile app offers users an in-depth guide to works in the Yale Center for British Art’s collection as well as detailed information about its landmark building, designed by Louis I. Kahn. Download Smartify on your iOS or Android device or take a tour through your web browser. Learn more Yale University Art Gallery The Yale Center for British Art is directly across the street from the Yale University Art Gallery, making it easy to visit both museums on the same day. Visit the Gallery's website to learn more about their collections, special exhibitions, and programs. Learn more Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us