Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture Accessibility The Center is dedicated to providing the best possible experience to all visitors. People of all abilities are welcome to visit the museum and participate in programming. All tours can be adapted to address individual needs. Getting Around the Museum Complimentary manual wheelchairs and stools are available next to the elevator on the ground floor, on a first-come, first-served basis. The Center’s classrooms, galleries, Reference Library, and Study Room are accessible by wheelchair. If you have limited mobility or use a wheelchair and require assistance to attend a program in the Lecture Hall, please see the security guard at the information desk in the Entrance Court. We request that you arrive ten minutes before the start of the program. Gender-neutral accessible restrooms are available on the lower level. Service animals are welcome in the museum. Designated handicapped metered parking spaces are available within close proximity of the Center. In addition, vehicles may park temporarily in front of the building, on the southeast corner of Chapel and High Streets, in order to assist a visitor in a wheelchair or with limited mobility. The Center’s parking lot, located directly behind the building and accessible from York Street (on your right as you approach Chapel Street), offers a limited number of spaces closer to the Center’s entrance. Please see the parking attendant for assistance. Visual and Auditory Assistance Sign language interpretation is available free of charge for public tours, group visits, school tours, and public programs. We require two weeks’ notice to arrange for an interpreter. Assisted listening devices amplify sound for visitors who are hard of hearing. A limited number of receivers are available for programs in the Lecture Hall on a first-come, first-served basis. Assisted listening devices are free with identification. Please visit the information desk to obtain a device prior to the program. Large-print labels for special exhibitions are available at the front desk. If you have questions or would like to make arrangements, please contact the Education department (ycba.education@yale.edu | +1 203 432 2858). Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us