Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture Get involved There are many ways to be a part of the Yale Center for British Art‚ from training to become a museum guide to helping visitors as an information volunteer at the front desk. Find out how you can learn‚ share, contribute, and make a difference at the Center. Donate The Center gratefully accepts donations in support of our exhibitions, educational opportunities, programs, and visitor experience. If you would like to make a donation in person or over the phone, or if you have any additional questions, please contact our Advancement and External Affairs department at ycba.advancement@yale.edu | +1 203 432 8559. Donate today Friends of British Art The Friends of British Art include collectors, scholars, and other patrons who share a deep interest in British art. Their aim is to provide vital support for the Center, principally in the area of acquisitions. Friends enjoy direct access to the Center’s collections, special tours, and visits to other museums and private collections in the US and abroad. They receive invitations to social events, complimentary copies of exhibition catalogues, and a special discount on purchases from the Museum Shop. Friends automatically receive the benefits of free membership at the Center. Individual and dual Friends membership levels begin at $1,100. To become a Friend of British Art click the “Become a Friend” button. Enter your amount. Select “Center for British Art” as your gift designation to ensure proper delivery of your online donation and use the “Comments/additional instructions” (fourth blue dropdown bar) option to enter “Friends of British Art Membership” and anything else you would like us to know about your gift. Or, contact Amelia Ewan at amelia.ewan@yale.edu | +1 203 432 8559. Become a friend Free Membership If you are interested in joining our free membership program, please register online or contact our Advancement and External Affairs department at ycba.advancement@yale.edu | +1 203 432 8559. As a free member of the Center, you are automatically subscribed to our weekly enewsletter, which includes information about special programs, events, and activities. Members receive a 20 percent discount on the Center’s publications and select promotions in the Museum Shop, as well as prorated parking in the Chapel-York Street Garage. Membership also provides access to the College and University Art Museums Reciprocal Program, including eighty museums across the country. Register today Sponsorship Opportunities Without question, art enriches a community. Each year the Center offers a variety of programs and exhibitions designed to engage and inspire visitors of all ages. Corporate sponsorships help make this possible. From evening lecture series to family days to exceptional exhibitions, there are numerous opportunities for partnerships that benefit the Center and your business. As a sponsor, you reach tens of thousands of people who visit the museum each year from the region and abroad. Your name appears in all communications about the program you support, and as an exhibition sponsor your logo appears on all press materials, advertising, exhibition signage, the title wall, and more. Through the Center’s diverse sponsorship program, you may also receive access to entertainment spaces and specialized tours. In addition to financial support, the Center also welcomes in-kind trade and media partnerships. Become a sponsor Docent Program The Center’s Docent Program was instituted upon the museum’s opening in 1977. Docents offer public tours of the Center's collections, architecture, and special exhibitions. They also lead tours for visiting school children of all ages and are responsible for researching and preparing their tours, under the auspices of the Education department. Becoming a docent requires a three-year commitment: one year of training followed by two years of service, including presenting tours and participating in public programs at the Center. All docents train every Monday morning during the academic year. Individual docents also conduct their own research on special projects. Docent benefits include organized study trips, special docent gatherings, and a discount in the Museum Shop. The Center is not accepting applications at this time. Learn more Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us