Skip to contents Free and open to the public Pause Play Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Search the Center's collections Close Menu Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art Search Search Close search Submit Main navigation Exhibitions and programs Collections Research and learning Plan your visit About us Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Exhibitions Bridget Riley: Perceptual Abstraction Collections Main navigation Sub-1 Overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Overview Collections departments Research and learning Main navigation Sub-2 Overview Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room Overview The View From Here: Accessing Art Through Photography Plan your visit Main navigation Sub-3 Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Hours and visitor guidelines Museum Shop About us Main navigation Sub-4 Our story Paul Mellon, Founder From the Director Architecture News and press Annual report Videos Get involved Departments and staff Job opportunities Contact us Our story Architecture Talks at Home: Lecture | Post-Colonial Ukraine: The Meanings of Resistance Friday, June 3, 2022, 12–1 pm Register today Timothy Snyder, Richard C. Levin Professor of History, Yale University About this program Marc Quinn: History Painting +, at the Yale Center for British Art from May 20 through October 16, 2022, presents six works by the British artist Marc Quinn, whose History Painting series reimagines iconic news photographs. One of these large-scale photorealist canvases, History Painting (Kiev [Kyiv], 22 January 2014), YGORBW is a depiction of Vasily Maximov’s photograph of the burning “battlefield” of Kyiv published in Time magazine in 2014. This lecture provides an overview of the history of Ukraine to help contextualize the current conflict. Martina Droth, Deputy Director and Chief Curator, will moderate the Q&A. About Timothy Snyder Snyder is the Richard C. Levin Professor of History at Yale University and a permanent fellow at the Institute for Human Sciences in Vienna. His books include Nationalism, Marxism, and Modern Central Europe: A Biography of Kazimierz Kelles-Krauz (1998); The Reconstruction of Nations: Poland, Ukraine, Lithuania, Belarus, 1569-1999 (2003); Sketches from a Secret War: A Polish Artist’s Mission to Liberate Soviet Ukraine (2005); The Red Prince: The Secret Lives of a Habsburg Archduke (2008); Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin (2010); Thinking the Twentieth Century (with Tony Judt, 2012); Black Earth: The Holocaust as History and Warning (2015); On Tyranny: Twenty Lessons from the Twentieth Century (2017); The Road to Unfreedom: Russia, Europe, America (2018); and Our Malady: Lessons on Liberty from a Hospital Diary (2020). Snyder’s work has appeared in forty languages and has received numerous prizes. He has appeared in documentaries, on network television, and in major films. His books have inspired poster campaigns and exhibitions, films, sculpture, a punk rock song, a rap song, a play, and an opera. His words are quoted in political demonstrations around the world. He is currently finishing a philosophical book about freedom. This program is presented through the generosity of the Terry F. Green 1969 Fund for British Art and Culture. Register To join us for this program, please register here. Top image Photo of Timothy Snyder, Jiri Zerzon for Hospodarske noviny You may also like Talks at home: Norma Lytton Lecture | What Is Inclusive Design? Wednesday, April 20, 2022, 12–1:15 pm Talks Architects in Conversation: To Build for Art | Annabelle Selldorf Thursday, March 31, 2022, 6:30–7:30 pm Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, Connecticut Admission is free Plan your visit Hours and visitor guidelines Tours City and region Directions and parking Accessibility Museum Shop Exhibitions and programs Now and upcoming Past exhibitions and programs Collections Collections overview Search the collections Using the collections Conservation Collections departments Research and learning Community Colleges and universities Yale community Residential scholars Publications Reference Library Study Room About us Our story Paul Mellon, Founder Architecture News and press Videos Get involved Departments and staff Contact us Yale Privacy and cookies Accessibility at Yale Contact us