Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Title IX Home Virtual Office Hours The Title IX and Gender Equity Office remain a resource to you as we learn and work remotely. WE ARE HERE and available to talk with all students, staff and faculty who have a question or need support in addressing gender-based discrimination or sexual violence. Connect with us via email at [email protected] and telephone at 401-863-2026 (Title IX Coordinator) or 401-863-5140 (Administrative Coordinator). We will coordinate meeting times for community members across time zones. Confidential crisis support is available Students can contact the Sexual Assault Response Line at 401-863-6000. Faculty and staff can seek help from the RI Helpline at 1-800-494-8100, the National Domestic Violence Helpline at 1-800-799-7233, or several services available through the Faculty Staff Assistance Program. Each instance of sexual and gender-based harassment and violence ripples outward; effects that begin with the people directly involved extend to intimate social networks, professional and friendly acquaintances, and shared academic and extracurricular groups, ultimately impacting the Brown community as a whole. We know that these effects vary depending on the experiences, identities, and social status of those involved. And while we understand that each individual experience of harassment and violence is unique, we are also aware that acts of harm and discrimination do not occur in a vacuum, but instead gain meaning from a variety of intersecting social and cultural values. We use this knowledge not to make assumptions based on people’s identities or experiences, but to implement a response to harm and discrimination that is nuanced and varied, rather than uniform. Responding to violence and harassment requires collaboration across different areas of expertise and knowledge possessed by students, staff, and faculty at Brown. Just as the responsibility to respond to discrimination is shared, so is the the commitment to a community standard that prioritizes respect, equity, and safety. Home Staff What is Title IX Policies Online Reporting Get Help Culture of Respect Annual Outcome Report Sexual Assault Campus Climate Survey Oversight and Advisory Board Campus Updates Print this Page Share this Page Title IX and Gender Equity Brown University Box 1988 305 Horace Mann House 47 George St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2026 [email protected] For Immediate Help Call the Sexual Assault Response Line at 401-863-6000 for confidential crisis support and information. “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under any educational program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” —Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 to the Higher Education Act of 1965 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory