Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Site Navigation Home About People Undergraduate Graduate Doctoral Program MFA in Playwriting MFA in Acting and Directing Graduate Colloquium Series FAQ Performances & Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1897 83 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401.863.3283 Fax 401.863.7529 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Graduate The Masters of Fine Arts in Playwriting The Masters of Fine Arts in Playwriting Overview Brown's MFA in Playwriting is a three-year funded program. We are looking for students who define themselves as writers, and whose writing resists definition—but involves a keen, tireless attention to live performance. This program is a place to study what writing for theater has been, while honing a creative practice that also feeds voraciously on the nontheatrical: all kinds of literature, art, rebellion, and thought. Above all it is a place—and time—to write like you've never written before. Submission Requirements Two writing samples. The first should be a complete full-length script for live performance (a.k.a. a play.) The second may be a part of a whole, and in any medium; if writing, no more than 15 pages, if visual no more than 15 images, if sound/video, no more than 15 minutes. If you have trouble uploading a second sample, or if it cannot be uploaded, please send it to the Graduate School, clearly marked Playwriting Application. Do not send samples directly to the department as this will delay the processing of your application. Statement of purpose. What are your writing goals over the next few years, and how can Brown's program serve them? Three recommendations, at least one of which speaks directly to your work as a theater artist. TOEFL: required for applicants from non-English speaking countries only; see Graduate School website for details. GRE (General/Subject): Not required. Application deadline: January 4, 2022 For questions about the MFA Playwriting program, contact the Head of Playwriting, Julia Jarcho at [email protected]. Applications to the PhD and MFA programs are submitted to, and managed through, the Graduate School. Please do not email the department with technical questions or requests to troubleshoot your online application submission. You can find detailed instructions about the application process and components here. The application FAQ can be found here. Transcripts and letters of recommendation and any other supplementary materials should also be sent to directly to the Graduate School mailing address. Sending application materials to directly to TAPS will delay the processing of your application. FINANCIAL AID: The program provides a financial aid package that covers stipend, tuition, health fee, and health insurance for three years of full-time enrollment. In addition, the program provides stipends for fall and spring semesters for each year of full-time enrollment as well as a stipend for two summers (following first and second years). Funding is contingent on students remaining in good standing. Related Files MFAPW Handbook_08-13-2020_Updated.pdf Related Links Admissions Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Also in Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Site Navigation Home About People Undergraduate Graduate Doctoral Program MFA in Playwriting MFA in Acting and Directing Graduate Colloquium Series FAQ Performances & Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1897 83 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401.863.3283 Fax 401.863.7529 [email protected] Performance Calendar Get Tickets Calendar There are no upcoming events. Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Social Media TAPS Facebook TAPS Instagram TAPS YouTube Partnerships Brown Arts Initiative Rites & Reason Theatre Sock & Buskin TAPS Library Guide Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity