Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College The College at Brown University Your Brown undergraduate education is designed to promote your academic and personal development. The College at Brown University Your Brown undergraduate education is designed to promote your academic and personal development. At Brown you are an active participant in framing your own education, drawing on your intellectual creativity to challenge yourself in a community of shared learning. This approach to learning and inquiry will help you to develop as a critical thinker and communicator, and as a partner with other students, faculty and staff in a journey of education. You will be supported in designing your academic path by academic and peer advisors, residential peer leaders, and staff in the College who help to guide your intellectual risk-taking and support you in achieving your academic and personal goals. Becoming the Architect of Your Education Brown offers more than 80 concentrations in the arts, humanities, social sciences and behavioral sciences leading to either a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science, as well as the opportunity to design an independent concentration. Browse Concentrations Search the more than 80 academic concentrations available at Brown. Search for Courses Learn more about course options, including enrollments, meeting times and instructors. View Requirements Review your academic obligations for graduation from Brown. Navigating Brown’s Curriculum Faculty and peer advisors will help you explore Brown’s vast array of academic programs and co-curricular options and provide counsel on important academic decisions. You also have access to tutoring and study help centers in writing and science. Academic Advising Hours Visit with a dean to discuss questions and issues, both urgent and non-urgent. Academic Tutoring Access free group tutoring services, facilitated through the Sheridan Center. Advising & Support Access an array of advisors and support while building your Brown experience. Serving Communities, Solving Problems You’ll have many opportunities to learn beyond campus, with access to hundreds of funded research and internship opportunities each year, engaged learning opportunities in the local community, a robust global study program and support in pursuing national and international fellowships. As an undergraduate student, you will explore societal issues in the classroom and beyond the campus — building the knowledge, skills and relationships you will need to lead a life of meaning and purpose. Study Abroad Browse international study programs across more than a dozen countries and 50+ institutions. Find Internships Search for internships and research opportunities via BrownConnect. Engaged Scholarship Investigate public, civic and/or social justice issues through community-based learning, research and action. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search The College at Brown University Open details for The College at Brown University Bookmark this Page