Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Therapeutic Sciences Graduate Program Home About People PhD Program Master's Program News Events Site Navigation Home About Research NIH Training Grant Alumni Outcomes About Providence People Faculty Trainers Students Administration PhD Program Admission and Financial Aid Diversity Resources FAQ For Current Students Master's Program News Events Slideshow Full Educator-Scholars TSGP Faculty Trainers are experts in their fields who cultivate a spirit of collaboration and innovation at all levels and in all disciplines. Meet the Faculty Trainers Alumni Outcomes TSGP prepares students to lead, innovate, and advance scientific discovery in a variety of fields. Learn more Why Choose Brown? Faculty and students describe in their own words how the Graduate Program in Therapeutic Sciences fosters intellectual independence while encouraging connections across areas of study. Watch the video The Therapeutic Sciences Graduate Program (TSGP) at Brown University offers students an intimate, congenial and collaborative learning environment that draws upon faculty experts from the life and physical science departments, as well as physician-scientists at affiliated hospitals. Together, students and faculty form a community of scholars committed to Brown's core mission: advancing knowledge and scientific discovery. Mentorship TSGP provides a collaborative and intimate learning environment that allows for extensive, one-on-one faculty-student interactions. Read More Innovation Students work alongside accomplished faculty in modern laboratories and research facilities equipped with state-of-the art instrumentation. Read More Inclusion TSGP is a proud partner in a number of initiatives for faculty, staff, and students from historically underrepresented groups. Read More Collaboration Research in Therapeutic Sciences intersects with diverse fields of study and encourages collaboration between students and faculty mentors across and within Brown's academic departments and affiliated hospitals. Read More Therapeutic Sciences Graduate Program Therapeutic Sciences Graduate Program Brown University Box G-A2 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3262 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top