Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory English Department Faculty Bookshelf: Daniel Kim Faculty Bookshelf: Daniel Kim Writing Manhood in Black and Yellow: Ralph Ellison, Frank Chin, and the Literary Politics of Identity Daniel Kim This book examines cultural representations of African American and Asian American masculinity, focusing primarily on the major works of two influential figures, Ralph Ellison and Frank Chin. It highlights the language of gender and sexuality that writers use to depict the psychological injuries inflicted by racism on men of color—a language that relies on metaphors of emasculation. The book focuses on how homosexuality comes to function as a powerful symbol for a feminizing racism, and explains why this disturbing symbolism proves to be so rhetorically and emotionally effective. This study also explores the influential concept of literature that these writers promote—a view of writing as a cultural and political activity capable of producing the most virile and racially authentic forms of manhood. In comparing African American and Asian American writings, this book offers the first scholarly account of how black and yellow conceptions of masculinity are constructed in relation to each other. Reviews "Through the works of Ralph Ellison and Frank Chin, Kim examines cultural representations of African-American and Asian-American masculinity. He highlights the language of gender and sexuality that writers use to depict the psychological injuries inflicted on men of color and explains the ways that homosexuality comes to function as a powerful symbol for a feminizing racism."—Reference & Research Book News "...A wonderful example of a book that seamlessly merges literary close readings, psychoanalytic theory, and cultural studies...Kim's work presents a more complicated picture of Afro-Asian relations that acknowledges the libratory potential and problematic rhetoric the two sometimes share." —Julia H. Lee, University of California, Irvine ISBN: 9780804751087 Home Faculty Office Hours Undergraduate Graduate Nonfiction Writing Program Courses Contact Us Media Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1852 70 Brown St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2393 Fax 401-863-7412 English Events There are currently no events to display. View events archive. View Full Calendar Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Helpful Links Graduate School Literary Arts Banner Course Listings Course Preview Pages