Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Office of the President Show/Hide Home About A Vision for Brown Speeches and Statements Advisory Groups Initiatives Reports Passion for Research An advocate for the power of research and scholarship to address 21st –century challenges, Christina Paxson is nationally recognized as a respected economist and public health expert. Her research focuses increasingly on the relationship of economic factors to health and welfare over the life course. Advancing University Values Amid ongoing national discussions about the role of higher education in advancing knowledge and free expression, Christina Paxson is a vocal advocate of Brown’s mission to “serve the community, the nation and the world by discovering, communicating and preserving knowledge and understanding in a spirit of free inquiry.” Engaging with Students With 6,100 undergraduates, 2,200 graduate students and 400 medical students, Brown’s size allows a strong sense of community, and frequent engagement with faculty, staff and administrators with students. Commitment to the Community Being a partner in the economic growth of Providence and Rhode Island is a priority for Brown. The University’s vision is to contribute to the development of a vibrant ecosystem of academics, commerce and innovation, building on more than $200 million in investment in the Jewelry District. Christina Paxson A Vision for Brown Brown has ambitious goals to reach new levels of academic excellence through integrative research and innovative education in service to the community, the nation and the world. Our plans are built on Brown’s core values: a commitment to academic excellence at the highest levels; a spirit of independence and creativity in education and scholarship; and a belief that academic excellence and innovation are best supported by a cohesive and diverse intellectual community. Learn More » Official Photos Office Hours Upcoming Student Office Hours Wednesday, March 16, 2022 | 4-5:00 pm Office hours are subject to change. Contact [email protected] with any questions. Upcoming Staff Office Hours Thursday, March 24, 2022 | 4-5:00 pm Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Contact Office of the President Office of the President Brown University Box 1860 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2234 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat