Skip to Main Content Brown University Office of Information Technology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals MyBrown Login Search Menu Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Search Office of Information Technology Help Help IT Service Center / Alumni Help Desk (401) 863-4357 help@brown.edu 5th floor Page Robinson Building Chat with Us Submit a Ticket Search Our Knowledgebase Service Hours Back to Top Onsite Appointments, Onsite Walk-ins, Phone, Live Chat, and Online Help Request Support Service Hours: Monday-Friday: 8:30am - 6:00pm Saturday/Sunday: Closed Support Services Back to Top Our centralized on-site IT Support Consultants (ITSC) and departmental on-site Departmental Computing Coordinators (DCCs) are available to assist you with repairs to Brown-owned equipment and troubleshooting/general inquiries both Brown and personal computers. More information about what we support and how to get help can be found in the Knowledgebase. For normal computing issues (configuration changes, software installation, new computer set-up, etc.), please contact your assigned ITSC directly to set up an appointment. If you have an urgent issue (i.e., critical problems that require resolution within 2 hours) and your ITSC is unavailable, please send an email to ITSC@brown.edu and follow with a phone call to the Service Center for immediate triage. Email to the IT Support Consultant (ITSC) staff is sent to the entire team, so that other members of the team can respond to requests if the team member is sick or on vacation. ITSC departments are always welcome to call the IT Service Center at x3-4357 for questions regarding common applications (Word, Excel, Chrome, Acrobat, etc.). ITSC Services for Department-Owned Devices Technology Support The IT Support Consultant teams support computing activities within academic and administrative departments. Your ITSC will set up an appointment with you at a mutually convenient time. Planning ITSCs work with departmental staff members to develop technology plans for departments that include all hardware (computers, printers, scanners, mobile devices, etc.), software, cycles for hardware replacements, and future technology needs. Purchasing With approval from your departmental budgeting staff, your ITSC will assist you with placing orders for standard hardware (computers, printers, mobile devices, etc.), and will consult with you for any additional departmental purchases related to specialized technological academic needs. If ITSC is handling purchasing of equipment for the department, ITSC staff are responsible for providing specs and quotes. The purchase approval is handled by the department. Once approval is granted, ITSC staff will handle the purchasing of equipment through the appropriate channels. The timing of equipment delivery is outside ITSC’s control. Surplusing ITSCs manage the paperwork, including contacting Facilities Management for pickup. Additionally, we manage any technical requirements to get old and outdated computing equipment removed from your department. Remote Tools ITSCs use enterprise-class tools to manage Brown University-owned computers. Specifically we use Microsoft SCCM for Windows, and JAMF Pro for Mac, for inventory, patching/updating, and for remote support (screen sharing). This remote technical support allows us to fix problems quickly from almost any location (on or off campus). Remote Management FAQ Software and Security Management Brown University computers should be on supported operating systems (see what is current on Windows and Mac) and should use University-licensed software. Managed Windows computers are updated remotely in mainly "silent" fashion; on occasion you will be notified of a required reboot to finalize system updates. OIT Liaison OIT is a large department with many areas of expertise. ITSCs are familiar with the structure of OIT's organization and services. Part of the ITSC role is to serve as liaison between OIT's teams and our supported users, so that your questions and needs can get prompt attention. Accounts and Access Back to Top Request New or Modify Existing Access to Applications Fill out our request form, choosing "Access Request" as the request type. A list of applications we manage will appear. If you are unsure about what you're requesting or having difficulty with the form, please email cap@brown.edu. Manage Your Brown Account Activate/Manage Your Account (MyAccount) About Your Brown Usernames Additional Access Forms Vendor Account Request Form Confidentiality Agreement Form Electronic Services Policies Access to Electronic Services / Expiration Acceptable Use Policy All Policies Contact Information Back to Top For inquiries, urgent issues, or escalation of problems please contact: Don Rogers Director, IT Support & Customer Experience Donald_Rogers@brown.edu 401-863-7319 Other Support Organizations Back to Top Facilities (401) 863-9668 fm_it_helpdesk@brown.edu Facilities Services Workday (401) 863-WORK (9675) Create a Workday Ticket Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... MyBrown Login This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Help Open details for Help Bookmark this Page