Skip to main content OIT Service Center Submit a request Log in New to OIT Service Center? Register for an account Stay Logged In? Need a password reminder? Help Center Knowledgebase Accounts and Passwords Two-Step Verification Set Up Two-Step Verification If Auto-Enrollment Occurs Set Up Two-Step Verification If Auto-Enrollment Occurs - Knowledgebase / Accounts and Passwords / Two-Step Verification - OIT Service Center Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase × Print Download PDF × Copy to Clipboard Set Up Two-Step Verification If Auto-Enrollment Occurs Authors list Two-Step Verification is a security feature for your Brown account. For context, see general information about Two-Step Verification at Brown. What is Auto-Enrollment? When you are required to use Two-Step Verification but you haven't yet set it up, you are prompted to enroll when you log in to a Brown service that uses single sign on, such as MyAccount, Self-Service Banner, or Canvas. You will be unable to proceed until you add a device that is currently accessible to you, as described below. Simply follow the prompts to add a phone (any type) or tablet. If you do not have a device like a phone with you and are locked out of your account, contact the IT Service Center for help. First: Get to the Two-Step Enrollment Screen Do you see the image below when trying to log into a Brown service? If not, you can trigger it by going to a page that requires login, for example: https://myaccount.brown.edu/profile/twostep If you are not prompted to enroll in Two-Step when you visit a link like that, it could be that it's not (yet) required for your account! For example, incoming Brown first-years will only start seeing this prompt on June 1st. Second: Add a device Important: you must add a device that is currently accessible to you in order to access Brown resources immediately after the setup. For example, don't add your home landline if you aren't at home! If you do not have a reliable cell phone and are worried about using Two-Step, you can pick up a token from the IT Service Center. Step 1: Add a Device Fill out the questions on the screen based on the device you're trying to add. If you're adding an international number, just put a + in front of your country code when prompted for the number (for example, a German number would start +49). If you are adding a smartphone or tablet, you will be prompted to install an app called Duo Mobile and hold the device up to your computer screen to scan a code. When you see the option below, DO NOT choose the "Automatically send me a..." option. We know it is tempting, but it will prevent you from using "remember me for 30 days," which makes Two-Step SO much easier. Trust us on this one. Step 2: Continue to Login To continue to the service you were trying to access (for example, Canvas or Workday), click the "Continue to login" button at the bottom after adding your device. You will be prompted to verify with the device you just added. The verification option(s) you see will depend on what device you added. For example, if you installed the app on a smartphone, you could either get a phone call or a push notification. Step 3: Add Additional Devices in MyAccount If you have more phone numbers or mobile devices to add, follow the instructions here: Add Phones and Devices for Two-Step Verification in MyAccount. That link also has instructions for generating bypass codes in case you do not have access to your phone or device. If you have any problems during this process, please contact the IT Service Center. Helpful Unhelpful 76 of 118 people found this page helpful Send us a note about this article Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase Related Content Add a Smartphone for Two-Step Verification (Short Version) Add Phones and Devices for Two-Step Verification Two-Step Verification Tips Author Stephanie Obodda Contact the OIT Service Center Phone: 401-863-4357 Email: help@brown.edu Location: Page Robinson Hall - 69 Brown St., Room 510 See our availability https://it.brown.edu/get-help Walk-ins Welcome! Appointments recommended. For reserved service for a technical consult or a loaner check-out, you can schedule an appointment here. Reporting an IT Outage? Report an Outage Service Status & Alerts Phishing Warnings Powered by