Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Medieval Studies Undergraduate Concentration Track in Late Antique Cultures Medieval Studies Track in Late Antique Cultures Track in Late Antique Cultures (undergraduate major) Overview The track in Late Antique Cultures centers on the third through the ninth centuries inclusive and studies human activity in all its variety Arithmeticaunrestricted by the conventional demarcations of “classical” and “medieval.” The concentration focuses on the changes in cultural practices, social patterns, political and economic forms, and artistic and literary traditions in the context of transition and change. Requirements Two courses, one each in Roman history (CLAS 1310 or 1320; 1320 is recommended) and in medieval history (HIST 1030 or 1040); one 1000 or 2000 level course in an approved language; six other courses drawn from appropriate offerings in Late Antique Cultures and approved by the concentration advisor. Honors Honors are awarded to students who, in addition to completing the required courses, present a meritorious honors thesis. The thesis permits students to synthesize various disciplines or interests or to pursue a new interest in greater depth. To be eligible for Honors, students must complete a minimum of six approved courses in Late Antique Cultures by the end of their third year with more grades of A than B. Students should apply for admission to Honors and should meet with their faculty advisor(s) no later than spring of the junior year to plan the thesis project. Accepted candidates write the thesis in a two-semester course sequence under the supervision of a director and second reader drawn from the Medieval Studies faculty. Home About People Undergraduate Concentration Concentration in Medieval Cultures Track in Late Antique Cultures Sample Concentration Programs Medieval Studies DUG Courses Events Resources Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with Medieval Studies Program in Medieval Studies/Annmary Brown Memorial Brown University Box 1905 21 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1994 Fax 401-863-2470 [email protected] Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory