Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Healthy Brown: Community Response to COVID-19 Brown University Celebrating Brown’s 254th Commencement Relive the excitement of Brown’s 254th Commencement — read stories about the graduates and speakers, explore photo albums and watch recordings of the events. View Coverage Open details for Celebrating Brown’s 254th Commencement Pause/Play this video The Impact of Our Work Deploying knowledge to address critical and complex problems in the world. News From Brown Featured Most Recent Featured Most Recent News and Events With advice from Pelosi, Paxson and peers, Brown’s Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement May 29, 2022 A weekend packed with graduation ceremonies and alumni reunions offered a return to normalcy and a chance to experience Commencement and Reunion in-person, for both first-timers and graduates from across generations. Read Article Open details for With advice from Pelosi, Paxson and peers, Brown’s Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement News and Events Student voices shine as Brown commemorates Class of 2022 May 29, 2022 In a sunny, spirited celebration, three Brown graduating seniors addressed Class of 2022 members, encouraging their fellow graduates to honor their roots while forging new paths ahead. Read Article Open details for Student voices shine as Brown commemorates Class of 2022 News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees News and Events Two years later, Class of 2020 undergraduate alumni reunite for ceremony, spirited celebrations May 28, 2022 Brown University welcomed back its 2020 graduates, who missed their in-person Commencement when COVID-19 arrived their senior year, for the full, traditional experience of Commencement and Reunion Weekend. Read Article Open details for Two years later, Class of 2020 undergraduate alumni reunite for ceremony, spirited celebrations News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees News and Events Student voices shine as Brown commemorates Class of 2022 May 29, 2022 In a sunny, spirited celebration, three Brown graduating seniors addressed Class of 2022 members, encouraging their fellow graduates to honor their roots while forging new paths ahead. Read Article Open details for Student voices shine as Brown commemorates Class of 2022 News and Events With advice from Pelosi, Paxson and peers, Brown’s Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement May 29, 2022 A weekend packed with graduation ceremonies and alumni reunions offered a return to normalcy and a chance to experience Commencement and Reunion in-person, for both first-timers and graduates from across generations. Read Article Open details for With advice from Pelosi, Paxson and peers, Brown’s Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement News and Events Brown confers nine honorary doctorates May 29, 2022 During Commencement and Reunion Weekend, the University bestowed honorary degrees on U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Dr. Seth Berkley of the Vaccine Alliance, recording artist Shaggy and six other accomplished leaders. Read Article Open details for Brown confers nine honorary doctorates The Brown Difference Our commitment to academic excellence, intellectual freedom and making an impact centers all we do. Innovation Charting new research directions through data Economics faculty are using new methods to answer critical questions about government, health and medicine, media, and infrastructure. Economics Impact Advancing well-being for all Brown’s School of Public Health prepares tomorrow’s leaders to respond to the world’s most urgent health challenges. School of Public Health Collaboration Empowering students through the Open Curriculum Brown’s flexible yet rigorous approach to education pushes undergraduates to be deeply creative thinkers, intellectual risk-takers and entrepreneurial problem-solvers. The Open Curriculum Academics at Brown University Innovative teaching, rigorous scholarship and diverse perspectives cross boundaries and infuse Brown academics. Browse Undergraduate Programs Browse Graduate Programs The College Brown has earned a global reputation for its innovative undergraduate educational experience, based in the College and rooted in its flexible yet academically rigorous Open Curriculum. Graduate School With innovative, student-centered academic training and a diverse and collaborative culture, Brown prepares graduate students to become leaders in their fields inside and outside of the academy. Warren Alpert Medical School Brown’s renowned medical school offers an integrated medical curriculum alongside immersive clinical experiences, where students work with physician-scientists on the leading edge of biomedical innovation. School of Engineering Brown educates future leaders in the fundamentals of engineering in an environment of collaborative, world-class research centered on solving pressing global challenges. School of Public Health Throughout its teaching and research, the School of Public Health trains future public health leaders, advances knowledge on pressing health challenges and enhances population health and well-being. School of Professional Studies Brown’s School of Professional Studies offers executive education programs designed to advance the careers of accomplished professionals from across the globe. Brown has earned a global reputation for its innovative undergraduate educational experience, based in the College and rooted in its flexible yet academically rigorous Open Curriculum. With innovative, student-centered academic training and a diverse and collaborative culture, Brown prepares graduate students to become leaders in their fields inside and outside of the academy. Brown’s renowned medical school offers an integrated medical curriculum alongside immersive clinical experiences, where students work with physician-scientists on the leading edge of biomedical innovation. Brown educates future leaders in the fundamentals of engineering in an environment of collaborative, world-class research centered on solving pressing global challenges. Throughout its teaching and research, the School of Public Health trains future public health leaders, advances knowledge on pressing health challenges and enhances population health and well-being. Brown’s School of Professional Studies offers executive education programs designed to advance the careers of accomplished professionals from across the globe. Straight from the Source Brunonians answer your most pressing questions about Brown University. What advice do you have for incoming Ph.D. students? Byrd McDaniel Close What advice do you have for incoming Ph.D. students? What is your advice to first-year students? Emerson Tenney Close What is your advice to first-year students? What is your advice to first-year students? Meghan Mozea Close What is your advice to first-year students? Celebrate on social media this Commencement Weekend! Download Stickers and Images Share Commencement photos and videos using the hashtags #Brown2022 and #BrownU Find your way around Brown Explore the countless paths and opportunities that Brown has to offer. New to Brown Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents/Families Learn About Brown Academic Offerings Campus & Community Visit Brown Learn About Brown Academic Offerings Campus & Community Visit Brown Undergraduate Master’s and Doctoral Medical Students Executive & Professional Undergraduate Master’s and Doctoral Medical Students Executive & Professional Resources Resources Faculty Staff Faculty Staff Community & Events Supporting Brown Community & Events Supporting Brown Stay Connected Get Involved Events Stay Connected Get Involved Events About Brown Brown is a leading research university distinct for its student-centered learning and deep sense of purpose. Our students, faculty and staff are driven by the idea that their work will have an impact in the world. Visit Page Open details for About Brown The Open Curriculum Brown’s flexible yet rigorous approach to education pushes undergraduates to be deeply creative thinkers, intellectual risk-takers and entrepreneurial problem-solvers. Visit Page Open details for The Open Curriculum Research From brain science to biomedical engineering to the arts and humanities, Brown researchers fuel discovery, solve global problems and confront complex 21st century challenges with a relentless focus on the greater good. Visit Page Open details for Research Undergraduate Education Brown has earned a global reputation for its innovative undergraduate educational experience, rooted in its flexible yet academically rigorous Open Curriculum. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional With innovative, student-centered academic training and a diverse and collaborative culture, Brown prepares graduate students to become leaders in their fields inside and outside of the academy. Visit Page Open details for Graduate and Professional Schools and Colleges Brown is distinctively known as a University-College – a major research university where undergraduate education is based in the College, and students and faculty at all levels collaborate across the College, departments and schools. Visit Page Open details for Schools and Colleges Undergraduate Programs Brown offers more than 80 programs, what some colleges call majors. You'll sample courses in a wide range of subjects before immersing yourself in one of these focused areas. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs With more than 3,000 graduate and medical students and more than 700 full-time faculty members, Brown offers excellent academic training and mentoring within a supportive environment. Visit Page Open details for Graduate Programs Non-Degree Programs In addition to undergraduate and graduate degree programs, Brown offers certificates, an array of pre-college programs for high school students, and no-cost, no-credit online courses to learners across the globe. Visit Page Open details for Non-Degree Programs Academics Through innovative teaching and groundbreaking research, Brown contributes in significant and enduring ways to the advancement of knowledge across all fields of study. Visit Page Open details for Academics Schools and Colleges Brown is distinctively known as a University-College – a major research university where undergraduate education is based in the College, and students and faculty at all levels collaborate across the College, departments and schools. Visit Page Open details for Schools and Colleges Academic Departments Students and faculty collaborate across more than 40 academic departments at Brown’s schools and colleges. Visit Page Open details for Academic Departments Life at Brown Brown students, faculty and staff live active, engaged lives of teaching, learning and making an impact within a diverse and supportive community. Visit Page Open details for Life at Brown Athletics and Recreation Brown is a Division I school and founding member of the Ivy League. Visit Page Open details for Athletics and Recreation Housing & Dining Brown isn’t just a place where students study and learn. It's home. Visit Page Open details for Housing &amp; Dining Brown and Providence The story of Brown is also the story of Providence and Rhode Island. The University has been intertwined with this diverse and vibrant city since the founding of the republic. Visit Page Open details for Brown and Providence University Events Readings and performances. Lectures and panels. Exhibitions, concerts and film screenings — luminaries from across the globe are featured in exceptional and extraordinary events. Visit Page Open details for University Events Visit Brown Until health conditions and state guidance allow for less restricted travel to and from campus, all non-essential visitors are discouraged from visiting the Brown campus. Visit Page Open details for Visit Brown Driving Directions and Parking Information Brown's campus is located in Providence, R.I. — here's what you need to know about coming by car. Visit Page Open details for Driving Directions and Parking Information Accommodations in Providence Spending the night in Providence? See our list of partner hotels that offer discounted pricing. Visit Page Open details for Accommodations in Providence Campus Map This interactive campus map highlights campus buildings, exterior spaces, departments, rooms and more. Visit Page Open details for Campus Map Life in Providence Brown is located in the heart of Providence, R.I., a vibrant place to live, work and study and a city rich in cultural diversity. Visit Page Open details for Life in Providence Undergraduate Admission Learn more about Brown and how to apply as a freshman or transfer student. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Programs Brown offers more than 80 programs, what some colleges call majors. You'll sample courses in a wide range of subjects before immersing yourself in one of these focused areas. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Programs The Open Curriculum Brown’s flexible yet rigorous approach to education pushes undergraduates to be deeply creative thinkers, intellectual risk-takers and entrepreneurial problem-solvers. Visit Page Open details for The Open Curriculum Undergraduate Education Brown has earned a global reputation for its innovative undergraduate educational experience, rooted in its flexible yet academically rigorous Open Curriculum. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Education Tuition and Aid When students are deciding where to apply to college, or whether to accept an offer of admission, we want them to know that Brown is an affordable choice. Visit Page Open details for Tuition and Aid Life at Brown Brown students, faculty and staff live active, engaged lives of teaching, learning and making an impact within a diverse and supportive community. Visit Page Open details for Life at Brown Graduate and Professional With innovative, student-centered academic training and a diverse and collaborative culture, Brown prepares graduate students to become leaders in their fields inside and outside of the academy. Visit Page Open details for Graduate and Professional Graduate Programs With more than 3,000 graduate and medical students and more than 700 full-time faculty members, Brown offers excellent academic training and mentoring within a supportive environment. Visit Page Open details for Graduate Programs Research From brain science to biomedical engineering to the arts and humanities, Brown researchers fuel discovery, solve global problems and confront complex 21st century challenges with a relentless focus on the greater good. Visit Page Open details for Research Centers & Institutes Brown excels at education and research that integrate knowledge across diverse fields of study — a robust network of academic institutes and centers is at the heart of that work. Visit Page Open details for Centers &amp; Institutes Life in Providence Brown is located in the heart of Providence, R.I., a vibrant place to live, work and study and a city rich in cultural diversity. Visit Page Open details for Life in Providence Graduate Admission Brown University offers 51 doctoral programs and 33 master’s programs, including those of the School of Engineering, the School of Public Health and the School of Professional Studies. Visit Page Open details for Graduate Admission Warren Alpert Medical School Brown’s renowned medical school offers an integrated medical curriculum alongside immersive clinical experiences, where students work with physician-scientists on the leading edge of biomedical innovation. Visit Page Open details for Warren Alpert Medical School IE Brown Executive MBA A 15-month EMBA for mid-career professionals that integrates an innovative management curriculum with the humanities and liberal arts. Visit Page Open details for IE Brown Executive MBA Executive Master: Healthcare Leadership A 16-month program for healthcare professionals that prepares visionary leaders to transform healthcare organizations and deliver outstanding products and services. Visit Page Open details for Executive Master: Healthcare Leadership Executive Master in Science and Technology Leadership A 16-month program for mid-career professionals that goes beyond the traditional MBA to cultivate high-demand science and tech leaders. Visit Page Open details for Executive Master in Science and Technology Leadership Executive Master: Cybersecurity An 18-month program for mid-career professionals that cultivates high-demand cybersecurity leaders. Visit Page Open details for Executive Master: Cybersecurity Academic Calendar Significant dates and deadlines related to Brown classes. Visit Page Open details for Academic Calendar Brown University Shuttle Brown University Shuttle is a transportation service offered to the Brown community. Visit Page Open details for Brown University Shuttle BrownConnect Post opportunities for internships, career advice and networking. Visit Page Open details for BrownConnect Office of the Registrar The Office of the Registrar supports the instructional activities of Brown by providing essential enrollment, curricular, and student record services to the entire campus community. Visit Page Open details for Office of the Registrar Advising Sidekick An online platform listing advising sessions, assignments and events Visit Page Open details for Advising Sidekick Brown Email Brown Email Login Visit Page Open details for Brown Email Academic Calendar Significant dates and deadlines related to Brown classes. Visit Page Open details for Academic Calendar Canvas Brown's learning management system Visit Page Open details for Canvas Banner The official registration portal for Brown courses Visit Page Open details for Banner Brown Email Your Gmail account Visit Page Open details for Brown Email Helping a Student in Distress This is the right place if you’ve noticed that a student could use support and you are making time in your day to figure out how to best support them. Visit Page Open details for Helping a Student in Distress Human Resources University Human Resources guides and supports the professional success of Brown employees. Visit Page Open details for Human Resources Workday Workday is the system of record for HR, finance, learning, payroll, recruiting and post-award grant accounting information at Brown University. Visit Page Open details for Workday Banner The official registration portal for Brown courses Visit Page Open details for Banner Academic Calendar Significant dates and deadlines related to Brown classes. Visit Page Open details for Academic Calendar Space Reservations Reserve a room on campus. Visit Page Open details for Space Reservations University Event and Conference Services The Office of University Event & Conference Services works with students, staff and faculty to produce successful events on the Brown campus. Visit Page Open details for University Event and Conference Services BrownConnect Post opportunities for internships, career advice and networking. Visit Page Open details for BrownConnect Alumni Directory The alumni directory is a valuable services exclusively for Brown alumni. Visit Page Open details for Alumni Directory Clubs & Affinity Groups Find Brown alumni groups in your area, such as a club, alumni interviewing program, or affinity group chapter. Visit Page Open details for Clubs &amp; Affinity Groups Alumni Events Miss the energy of your fellow alums? On the Alumni & friends calendar, there’s something for every alum! Visit Page Open details for Alumni Events Alumni & Friends The online home for Brown alumni and friends. Get involved. Give back. Make lifelong connections. Visit Page Open details for Alumni &amp; Friends BrownTogether BrownTogether, with a goal of $3 billion, is the most aspirational campaign in the University's history. Visit Page Open details for BrownTogether Brown Annual Fund The Brown Annual Fund creates immediate opportunities for financial aid, faculty support, and the student experience. Visit Page Open details for Brown Annual Fund Give Now You can support Brown in a variety of ways, and your gift to Brown is a sound investment in Brown’s future, making it possible to maintain and build on the excellence of our students, faculty, education and research. Visit Page Open details for Give Now Academic Calendar Significant dates and deadlines related to Brown classes. Visit Page Open details for Academic Calendar News from Brown Brown deploys knowledge to address critical and complex problems in the world. Visit Page Open details for News from Brown University Events Calendar Events and important dates from across campus. Visit Page Open details for University Events Calendar Athletics and Recreation Brown is a Division I school and founding member of the Ivy League. Visit Page Open details for Athletics and Recreation Alumni & Friends: Parents & Families The top parent fundraising program in the Ivy League Visit Page Open details for Alumni &amp; Friends: Parents &amp; Families Parent and Family Giving Enriching Brown's undergraduate experience Visit Page Open details for Parent and Family Giving Family Weekend Family Weekend provides students, parents and others the ideal autumnal setting for a reunion and exploration of Brown. Visit Page Open details for Family Weekend Commencement Information Browse the schedule of events and other important information about Commencement. Visit Page Open details for Commencement Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Home Open details for Home Bookmark this Page