Skip to main content Brown University Brown University Primary Navigation Dining Locations & Menus Meal Plans Choose & Manage Eat Well Green Dining Catering Learn More About Dig Deeper Connect Contact Us Menu Close Special Diets America To Go Terms & Conditions Special Diets America To Go Terms & Conditions Catering Catering with Brown Dining Services Brown Catering is happy to welcome you back to campus for Fall 2021! We’re excited to launch our new Catering Order System, CaterTrax, for the new School Year. Please contact Catering via email to Staff_Catering@Brown.edu or by phone at Ext. 3-2712 for assistance planning your event! View Our Menu + Place an Order Special Diets Brown Catering is committed to meeting the needs of guests who have special dietary restrictions (such as a food allergy, intolerance or other medically restricted diet) and recognizes that many of our guests may also adhere to a vegetarian or vegan diet. Brown Catering Event Coordinators are able to safely and reasonably guide event planners in booking events and making menu selections which can accommodate their guests. In most instances, food allergies and intolerances can be managed independently at events, however, please note: Brown Catering does not label all allergens at catered functions. With advance notice, Brown Catering can generally accommodate guests who must avoid the most common food allergens, as well as gluten. Please review our Notice to Customers to understand our policies and procedures around handling and identifying allergens in our recipes and on menus. Brown Catering is unable to accommodate individual dietary preferences. Dietary preferences can be made directly to the event planner. It is the event planner’s decision to modify the event menu based on guest preference. Brown Catering is unable to accommodate for therapeutic diets (i.e. diabetic diet, cardiac diet, renal diet, etc.) Request an accommodation America To Go (ATG) is a service that is replacing the current Brown First process for external catering orders, placed through Brown First food vendors. Through this relationship, Brown receives an electronic ordering platform to streamline the ordering and reconciliation of catered business meals and a dedicated account team with 24/7 customer service to handle any situation. Invoicing is greatly simplified through the Workday punchout process. The Brown First participating suppliers are connected to the America to Go ordering platform and will receive the order through America to Go. Instructions for using the America to Go punchout in Workday can be found on the Workday Training site under ATG. Local Sales Representatives Customer Service For immediate assistance with an order or delivery CustomerService@AmericaToGo.com Toll Free: 866-284-8646 ATG Vendor List Workday Training Resources FAQs about the America to Go Program Place An Order Terms & Conditions Let us put our expertise to work for you. Our Catering Sales Manager will initially assess your event and guide you with your service needs. Catering Management uses its professional discretion to determine the amount of staff needed to create a successful event. catering terms and conditions Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility Terms of Use & Privacy Policy / Privacy Request © 2022 Bon Appétit Management Company Connect: Social@Brown Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat