Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory ADVANCE at Brown News Building Connections with NIH Program Officers: Myths & Realities ADVANCE at Brown Building Connections with NIH Program Officers: Myths & Realities October 27, 2009 October 27, 2009 10:00 AM Barrus & Holley 190 182 Hope Street Dr. Donna J. Dean is Senior Science Advisor with Lewis-Burke Associates LLC. Dr. Dean is responsible for developing strategies and providing advice and counsel to clients that enhance their successful participation in federal research programs. Dr. Dean has also been a pivotal leader on scientific and technical workforce issues (such as the Federal Interagency Commission on the Advancement of Women, Minorities, and Persons with Disabilities in Science, Engineering and Technology) and in women's health (co-chair of the Committee to establish the 21st century women's health research agenda.) Among her current professional activities are the Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and Executive Board of the Washington Academy of Sciences. She recently completed a two-year term as national President of the Association for Women in Science. This presentation is co-sponsored by the Office of the Vice President for Research and Government Relations & Community Affairs. Resources Building Connections with NIH Program Officers: Myths & Realities About People Leadership Program Faculty Development Transforming Departments Visiting Scholars Resources News Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory