Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations Internships International Internships Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations International Internships BEO has collaborated with alumni and partner universities to offer international internships in India, Hong Kong, Madrid and South Africa. All internships abroad are during the summer, with travel and accommodation costs covered. The internships provide exposure to the working environment of global markets in high-growth emerging market or mature economies. At the same time, students are immersed in very different cultures in Asia and Europe. The range of industries that accept our students spans the disciplines featured in BEO, including financial services, consulting, technology, retailing, marketing and research. Nuts & Bolts | BEO International summer internships Who may apply? The International Internships are open to BEO concentrators in all tracks who are in good academic standing and will just be completing either their sophomore or junior year at Brown. Students may apply to any or all locations. I'm interested, what should I do? Interested students are invited to attend an internship information session to learn more about the program. General information sessions for are held in November of each academic year for the following summer. Information is typically published in [email protected] as well in the weekly BEO newsletter. Additionally, a Hong Kong specific information session usually held each November at the CareerLAB. When possible, interns from prior summers are in attendance at these information sessions to answer questions. How do I apply? Students apply for available internships via the Career Lab internship platform, Handshake. Summer 2019 Infosys Internship is job number in Handshake is:, 2019 IE Madrid Internship is job number . For students interested in the Johannesburg, South Africa internships, contact [email protected] Do I get academic credit or a salary for working abroad? No. You get the invaluable experience of adding an international dimension to your academic preparation while being exposed to the workings of the global marketplace. Do I need to know a foreign language to intern abroad? BEO's internship in India requires that work be conducted in English. While it is not required for the internships in Madrid and Hong Kong, there is a strong preference for students who speak Spanish or Chinese, respectively. When will I know if I have been selected for an International Internship? Students will be notified by late February. What is the financial cost of the internship for students? The specific financial arrangements differ from place to place, but we seek to fund all travel and living costs related to working abroad. Students are expected to obtain a passport, any required work permits or visas, finance personal travel pre- or post-internship, and are responsible for any other incidentals related to the internship. Why does BEO offer internships in these locations? BEO has partnered with company sponsors that have connections to Brown, either through a joint program as is the case with the IE in Madrid, or through Brown alumni and parents. What type of work will I do? The internship is structured around a project that you will most likely complete with a partner. In India, projects can cover all the areas of work in a large corporation, from finance to market research, and our interns are assigned to projects depending on their experience and interests. In Madrid, the internship is in marketing and research associated with the IE-Brown Executive MBA Program. In Hong Kong, the work is in different areas of finance. Is this good for my resume? Often students tell us that their international internship was a defining experience work-wise, culturally, and personally. They were asked to research, analyze, synthesize, and present a project. They had to understand a company and its main stakeholders, and they had to navigate a different culture. Many students use specific examples of the experiences acquired abroad to illustrate skills and personal traits when interviewing for their jobs out of Brown. Home People BEO Concentration The BEO Capstone BEO Concentration FAQs and Tips Business Pathways @ Brown Graduate Research Print this Page Share this Page Sayles Hall, Suite 015 Brown University Box 1922 79-81 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-6348 Fax 401-863-6415 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Programs Program in Management and Entrepreneurship IE Brown Executive MBA Department of Sociology Department of Economics School of Engineering Get Involved BEO DUG Entrepreneurship Program BEO Newsletter | Subscribe Here Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship