Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine BioMed Core Facilities Search Menu Site Navigation Home About BioMed Core Facilities Cores RI Search Division of Biology and Medicine BioMed Core Facilities Flow Cytometry and Cell Sorter Facility The Flow Cytometry & Cell Sorter Facility is a full service facility that provides instrumentation, expertise and access to state-of-the-art flow cytometry and cell sorting instrumentation. Flow Cytometry and Cell Sorter Facility The Flow Cytometry & Cell Sorter Facility is a full service facility that provides instrumentation, expertise and access to state-of-the-art flow cytometry and cell sorting instrumentation. About Back to Top Welcome to the Brown University Flow Cytometry & Cell Sorter Facility. The purpose of this facility is to provide technical assistance to researchers at Brown and affiliated institutions by performing flow cytometry-based analysis and sorting. The facility has a 5-laser, 20-parameter BD FACSAria IIIu for flow and sorting applications, as well as a 3-laser, 15-parameter BD FACSCelesta equipped with a high throughput system for analysis of samples from 96 well plates. Find us at CoresRI! Services and Instruments Back to Top Instruments Available FACSAriaIIIu Flow Cytometer and Cell Sorter Visit Page Open details for FACSAriaIIIu Flow Cytometer and Cell Sorter BD FACSCelesta Visit Page Open details for BD FACSCelesta Cytek Aurora Visit Page Open details for Cytek Aurora Data Analysis & Backup The Flow Facility utilizes an external back up system, that automatically saves data at the end of the day. This is useful, should a problem occur with the machine, or with an individuals data (i.e. corruption of individual files). Files and experiments will occasionally pile up on the DiVa software which causes the program to run at slower speeds. For this reason, every month, old experiments are deleted off the program, and saved onto the workstations hard drive, where it will be backed up at the end of the day. Individual users are responsible for their own data analysis and backing up of data (either by transfer to USB Flashdrive or CD/DVD). The FACSAria cell sorter is run by a PC-based computer system. There is only one PC workstation with Diva software for data anlysis and/or for setting up sort profiles, which is connected to the instrument. The facility staff is available by appointment to assist in data analysis using the Flowjo software. Protocols Listed are several protocols that may answer some typical questions. The Cell Sorting Guidelines are basic instructions as to how to prepare your samples for sorting. The Flow Cytometry Guidelines are basic instructions for running samples for flow analysis that do not need to be sorted. Please keep in mind that it is still very helpful to filter your samples, especially samples that come from bone marrow or are clumpy cells lines. The Fluorochrome Chart is a list of all the channels that the FACSAria IIIu can run. The colors listed are some of the more common colors used, and what corresponding channel they are run on. The User Access Form will gather all your pertinent billing information. All new users must complete the User Access Form before any Flow or Sorting can take place. The FACSAria IIIu Use Request Form is to be filled out for each experiment. It will be helpful to fill out what type of specimen you are running, what colors you will use, how many samples, and most importantly what type of biosafety level your samples are to be treated as. Protocol Downloads Cell Sorting Guidelines Flow Cytometry Guidelines Fluorochrome Chart Service Request and Reservations Back to Top For further information or to schedule an appointment time, contact Kevin Carlson at 401-863-6396 or send us an email. Email Kevin Carlson Email the Flow Cytometry Facility Request Forms FACSAria IIIu Use Request Form User Access Form Rates Back to Top FY22 Rates Service Units Internal Academic Rate* External Academic Rate FACSAria Cell Sorter (1st Hour) Hours $127 $202 FACSAria Cell Sorter (Additional Hours) Hours $89 $156 FACSAria Flow Cytometry (1st Hour) Hours $90 $144 FACSAria Flow Cytometry (Additional Hours) Hours $70 $111 BD FACSCelesta (Self Use) Hours $47 N/A BD FACSCelesta (Assisted Use) Hours $84 $134 Cytek Aurora (Self Use) Hours $47 N/A Cytek Aurora (Assisted Use) Hours $84 $134 Technical Assistance Hours $37 $58 Effective 10/1/2021 *Rates for Brown and Rhode Island Academic and Hospital Affiliates **Any cancellations with less than a 24 hour notice before scheduled start time will be charged 1 hour. No-shows will be charged for time reserved. Contacts/Location Back to Top Laurent Brossay Charles A. and Helen B. Stuart Professor of Medical Science, Chair of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Bio Med Molecular, Microbiology & Immunology laurent_brossay@brown.edu Box G-B Brown University Providence, RI 02912-G, United States Research Profile Kevin Carlson Flow Cytometry Facility Manager kevin_carlson@brown.edu (401) 863-6396 BioMed Center, Room 602 Brown University Box G-B5 171 Meeting Street Providence, RI 02912 Resources for Equipment Back to Top Affymetrix eBioscience Compbeads Compensation control beads for complex panels. Allows compensation of fluorochromes using beads rather than cells. Basic Surface Staining Protocol A simple surface staining protocol published by Becton Dickenson. BD Spectrum Viewer This is an excellent tool to help with antibody panel design. Cytek Aurora SpectraFlo tutorials Online video tutorials on how to design, implement, and run an experiment on the Cytek Aurora Flow Wiki Basic "What is flow" information Flowing Software Free analysis software for flow cytometry (PC only) FlowJo Analysis software for flow cytometry (Mac, PC) Fluorfinder 2.0 An invaluable tool for all users of flow cytometry to design a superb, working antibody panel. The website is tailored to the instrumentation located at Brown University. Requires free registration. Purdue Cytometry Discussion List A forum of flow cytometry talk for advanced users. Resources for Grants Back to Top Description of Resources for Grant Applications Flow Cytometry. This facility, located at the Biomedical Center, is directed by a PhD-level investigator and staffed by a full-time manager. The primary instrument is a Becton Dickinson FACSAria III, a 5-laser, 20-parameter instrument with analytical and sorting capabilities for up to four populations, bead-based immunoassays, and DNA cell cycle analysis. The five lasers are blue 488nm, yellow/green 561nm, red 633nm, violet 407nm and UV 375nm. A fixed-alignment cuvette flow cell provides excellent fluorescence sensitivity. The facility houses a 3-laser, 15-parameter BD FACSCelesta with blue 488nm, violet 407nm, and yellow/green 561nm lasers and equipped with a high throughput system for analysis of samples from 96 well plates. The facility also houses a four laser Cytek Aurora with blue 488nm, red 640nm, violet 405nm and UV 355nm lasers. This instrument can analyze up to 54 channel, 57 parameters and is equipped with an auto sampler loader. Consultation is available. A computer workstation with FlowJo software is provided for facility users. Rigor and Reproducibility Scientific reproducibility is enhanced through scientific rigor and transparency. Scientific rigor is the strict application of the scientific method to ensure unbiased and well-controlled experimental design, methodology, analysis, interpretation, and reporting of results. The Flow Cytometry and Sorting Facility is committed to supporting research excellence by adopting the following practices of scientific rigor. Purchase and maintain a variety of high-quality instruments from established vendors such that the best instrument is available for any given research analysis. The equipment is overseen by highly trained Flow Cytometry experts and well maintained under service contracts or funds budgeted for annual preventive maintenance and repairs. The flow cytometry and cell sorting experts are available for experimental design consults or troubleshooting. All Flow Cytometry and Sorting Facility users are thoroughly trained by the expert staff, one on one, and not granted access to the instruments until they are deemed to be suitably trained. All newly trained users are also required to use the Flow Cytometry and Cell Sorting Facility instruments during daytime hours to increase interaction with the expert staff members. Acknowledgment Back to Top The Flow Cytometry and Sorting Facility is supported by NIH funding. The following acknowledgement must appear in any publication made possible by the work of the Flow Cytometry and Sorting Facility. This project was supported in part by a grant from the National Center For Research Resources (NCRR) (1S 10RR021051) from the National Institutes of Health, Brown University's Division of Biology and Medicine and Provost's office. Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About BioMed Core Facilities Cores RI This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Flow Cytometry and Cell Sorter Facility Open details for Flow Cytometry and Cell Sorter Facility Bookmark this Page