Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Medieval Studies Undergraduate Concentration Concentration in Medieval Cultures Medieval Studies Concentration in Medieval Cultures Concentration in Medieval Cultures (undergraduate major) Overview Medieval Studies Concentrators visited the Cloisters Museum in New York CityThe concentration in Medieval Cultures focuses on the sixth through the fifteenth centuries inclusive and combines interdisciplinary perspectives with depth of study in one or two disciplines. One traditional area of study is Western Europe, but students are encouraged to work in other cultural areas such as Byzantine, Islamic, Judaic or Slavic cultures. It is also recommended that concentrators take during their freshman or sophomore year the introductory course, Medieval Perspectives. Other courses that can be applied to the concentration in Medieval Cultures are listed below. Requirements Ten courses approved by the Program in Medieval Studies, including two courses in medieval history and one 1000- or 2000-level course that uses primary texts in a medieval language. Interested students are invited to discuss their plans with an appropriate faculty member of the Program. A concentration proposal should be prepared in consultation with the faculty advisor and submitted to the Program Chair for approval. Honors Honors are awarded to students who, in addition to completing the required courses, present a meritorious honors thesis. The thesis permits students to synthesize various disciplines or interests or to pursue a new interest in greater depth. To be eligible for Honors, students must complete a minimum of six approved courses in Medieval Studies by the end of their third year with more grades of A than B. Students should apply for admission to Honors and should meet with their faculty adviser(s) no later than spring of the junior year to plan the thesis project. Accepted candidates write the thesis in a two-semester course sequence under the supervision of a director and second reader drawn from the Medieval Studies faculty. Home About People Undergraduate Concentration Concentration in Medieval Cultures Track in Late Antique Cultures Sample Concentration Programs Medieval Studies DUG Courses Events Resources Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with Medieval Studies Program in Medieval Studies/Annmary Brown Memorial Brown University Box 1905 21 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1994 Fax 401-863-2470 [email protected] Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory