Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Site Navigation Home About People Undergraduate Graduate Doctoral Program MFA in Playwriting MFA in Acting and Directing Graduate Colloquium Series FAQ Performances & Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1897 83 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401.863.3283 Fax 401.863.7529 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Graduate The Brown/Trinity MFA in Acting and Directing The Brown/Trinity MFA in Acting and Directing Overview The Brown University/Trinity Rep MFA programs combine in-depth classroom work and an ongoing relationship to a working professional theatre. Brown University's Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies is internationally recognized for the quality of its faculty and instruction. Trinity Rep, with its deep tradition of resident artists, provides powerful artistic assets and creates a firm foundation of real-world experience. Together, the two organizations have produced a model of theatre training that is rigorous and technically demanding, without intellectual or creative limitations. Brown/Trinity includes the MFA programs in Acting and Directing. Students in each of the disciplines have many opportunities to study and work with fellow students from other areas, including the MFA Playwrighting students and the PhD students in Brown's Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies. Through directly experiencing the techniques and processes involved in each discipline, students are encouraged to become true collaborators, and to break down the often artificial barriers that have traditionally separated actors, directors, and playwrights. The primary focus in the acting training is in developing technically skilled, versatile actors capable of working in the variety of styles demanded by contemporary theatre. Directors are given the opportunity to develop their own vision, working in collaboration with actors, creating new work and rediscovering existing texts. The MFA curriculum provides a rigorous training program taught by a resident faculty, supplemented by guest artists from the professional and academic arenas. Click here for more information about the current Brown/Trinity season. Submission Requirement The application deadline for the Brown/Trinity MFA Acting Program is January 4, 2022. Brown/Trinity's next application cycle for Directing will open in September 2022 for admission in Fall 2023. For questions about the MFA programs in Acting and Directing, contact the MFA Program Administrator, Jill Jann: [email protected]. For questions about the application process (including GRE/TOEFL submission, LORs, and other technical questions), please contact the Graduate School directly at [email protected]. Applications to the PhD and MFA programs are submitted to, and managed through, the Graduate School. Please do not email the department with technical questions or requests to troubleshoot your online application submission. You can find detailed instructions about the application process and components here. The application FAQ can be found here. Transcripts and letters of recommendation and any other supplementary materials should also be sent to directly to the Graduate School mailing address. Sending application materials to directly to TAPS will delay the processing of your application. Related Files BROWN TRINITY HANDBOOK 2017-18.pdf Related Links Admissions Audition Information Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Brown/Trinity MFA Program in Acting/Directing website Brown/Trinity MFA Handbook Also in Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Site Navigation Home About People Undergraduate Graduate Doctoral Program MFA in Playwriting MFA in Acting and Directing Graduate Colloquium Series FAQ Performances & Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1897 83 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401.863.3283 Fax 401.863.7529 [email protected] Performance Calendar Get Tickets Calendar There are no upcoming events. Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Social Media TAPS Facebook TAPS Instagram TAPS YouTube Partnerships Brown Arts Initiative Rites & Reason Theatre Sock & Buskin TAPS Library Guide Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity