Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory LGBTQ Center Resources Campus Resources LGBTQ Center Campus Resources Institute for Transformative Practice The LGBTQ Center is part of 7 Centers and Programs that make up the Institute for Transformative Practice: Brown Center for Students of Color; Center for Community Dialogue and Campus Engagement; Global Brown Center for International Students; LGBTQ Center; Office of Military Affiliated Students; Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender; Undocumented, First Generation, Low Income Student Center. See links and descriptions below. Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) The Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) serves as a gathering place for communities of color. Students are encouraged to build meaningful relationships across difference, develop racial and ethnic consciousness, and enact change at Brown and beyond. The BCSC advances the University’s mission of educating and preparing students to discharge the offices of life with usefulness and reputation by empowering students of color, cultivating leadership, facilitating critical reflection, fostering informed action, and promoting social justice. [email protected]. 401-863- 2120 Global Brown Center for International Students (GBC) The Global Brown Center for International Students (GBC) was established in May 2017 within Campus Life in order to develop programming to support and engage our undergraduate and graduate international community, coordinate International Orientations, advise international student organizations/groups, as well as assist with advocacy initiatives. Formally known as ISE, our center's name changed beginning in August 2018 due to student feedback. The GBC also offers a comfortable space specifically for international students and student organizations. Office of Military Affiliated Students (OMAS) Since Brown's founding, the University has supported military veterans and helped students achieve their academic and professional goals, including military service. We value our student veterans—Brown has been designated as a Silver Medal Military Friendly School. That tradition continues today. We offer ROTC opportunities in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force. We also offer Yellow Ribbon funding and generous financial aid to our veteran students, giving them the opportunity to combine their military experience with a Brown degree to have the tools needed to lead and succeed. Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender (SDC) The Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender, established at Brown in 1974, seeks to provide a comfortable yet challenging place for students, faculty, and staff to examine the multitude of issues around gender. The Sarah Doyle Center offers programs and services for all members of the Brown community, and is a site for research into and exploration of gender issues that extend into and beyond the classroom. 401-863-2189 Undocumented, First Generation, Low Income Center (U-FLi) The Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center (U-FLi Center), founded in the fall of 2016, is a communal, learning, and advocacy center for members of the Brown community who identify with the undocumented, first-generation college and/or low-income student experience (U-FLi). The U-FLi Center aims to contribute to the endurance of U-FLi students by providing them with a dedicated space and programming that values their lived experiences as they navigate an elite, historically white institution and acknowledges the impact of the current socio-political climate on their academic well-being. ADDITIONAL CAMPUS RESOURCES Undergraduate Concentration in Gender and Sexuality Studies In Fall 2006 the Gender Studies program merged with the concentration in Sexuality and Society to form the Gender and Sexuality Studies Program. Gender and Sexuality Studies is an interdisciplinary concentration that examines the construction of gender and sexuality in social, cultural, political, economic, or scientific contexts. For further information contact the concentration advisor: Jeremy Lehnen Email: [email protected] Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) The Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) serves as a critical leader, resource, and support in sponsoring programs and events related to diversity and inclusion at Brown University. OIED helps lead inclusion efforts across campus through: Accountability: OIED monitors and measures progress of Brown University’s Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) and the Departmental DIAPs, produces an Annual Report for the DIAP, and supports the activities of the Diversity and Inclusion Oversight Board and the President’s Advisory Council on Diversity. Compliance: OIED oversees compliance with University policies and procedures, as well as and with federal, state and local laws related to discrimination and harassment, sexual and gender-based harassment and violence (Title IX), equal employment opportunity and affirmative action (EEO/AA), and disabilities resources and accommodations (ADA/504). Fostering Academic Diversity: OIED supports academic and administrative units with their efforts to recruit a diverse faculty and staff by providing training and assistance to search committees as they develop diverse pools of candidates. OIED also supports the development, implementation, and assessment of professional development and mentoring initiatives for faculty, staff and students from historically underrepresented groups. Promoting Diversity and Inclusion: OIED collaborates with offices across Brown to design, implement and promote programs and events related to diversity and inclusion. Incident Reporting Psychological Services Brown Psychological Services provides Brown students with free, confidential, individual appointments. 401-863-3476 BWell Health Promotion BWell Health Promotion is part of Health Services. They facilitate interactive workshops, offer individual counseling and referrals, and coordinate special events on a wide range of health topics. Topic areas include nutrition, alcohol and other drug use, safer sex, sexually transmitted infections, stress management and general wellness. 401-863-2794 SHARE Advocates The SHARE (Sexual Harassment & Assault Resources & Education) Advocates in BWell Health Promotion are confidential resources on campus that can provide support to any student from any part of the University (undergraduate, graduate, and medical students) affected by issues or experiences related to: Sexual Assault Sexual and/or Gender-based Harassment Domestic/Dating Violence Relational Abuse Stalking Confidential services include support for a survivor or the friends of a survivor, help filing a complaint (if that is the student's choice), and help navigating resources at Brown and in the community. SHARE Advocates are available to meet in quiet spaces in the offices of BWell Health Promotion (top floor of Brown University Health Services) or at one of several different locations on campus should you prefer. Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Religious life at Brown is wide-ranging and accommodating for students of all faiths. The multifaith chaplaincy on campus works to ensure that all beliefs can find a home on campus. Manning Chapel, Brown Hillel, and the Brown Muslim Student Center represent some of the more established centers for religious services at Brown. In addition, there are frequent meetings of fellowship and spirituality groups throughout the campus. To promote communication and understanding among all religious groups, the Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life sponsors a number of interfaith initiatives. 401-863-2344 Department of Public Safety The Department of Public Safety is responsible for the safety and security of students, staff, faculty and guests and governed by its Code of Ethics. The department philosophy places an emphasis on such community policing practices as prevention, problem-solving, and joint police-community responsibility. The department attempts to fulfill its mission through interactive patrol as well as through community education. 401-863-3322 Emergencies Contact: Emergency Medical Services (EMS) 401-863- 4111 Related Files Trans Guide 2014.pdf Home About Newsletter Get Involved [email protected] Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Key Terms Professionalization Resources Queer Conferences (Not Trans-Specific) Queer Fictions Queer Youth Conferences (Not Trans-Specific) Reel Queer Trans Conferences Trans Youth-Focused Conferences Grad Resources LGBTQ Community Leadership Award Alumni Lavender Graduation Print this Page Share this Page LGBTQ Center Brown University 321 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center Mailing Address: Box 1915 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3062 [email protected] Calendar Jun 1 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 2 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 3 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 4 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 5 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory LGBTQ Links Trevor Project Youth Pride, Inc. PFLAG AIDS Care Ocean State The Task Force Connect with us LGBTQC on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Join our email lists