Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Post Give Stories Events Log In Disclaimer about Internship and Research Postings CareerLAB provides to Brown University undergraduate students a self-help service of internship and research opportunities made available by Brown alumni and parents of Brown University students (listed as Bruno postings), and employers interested in hiring Brown students. Employers may offer for posting by CareerLAB available internships and/or research positions in their companies on BrownConnect. CareerLAB is providing this site as a courtesy to the students and at no cost to the listing employers. CareerLAB undertakes only to post listings that comply with the listing criteria established by CareerLAB. CareerLAB does not perform background checks on or investigate the practices of either the employers or the participating students. Once a listing is posted, all matters relating to the internship/research position are directly between the employer and the student and Brown University will take no responsibility for the actions of the students or the employer, or its employees or other agents. Accordingly employers and students are encouraged to request reference information from each other as needed to establish qualifications, credentials and overall fit between the employer and the student applicant. CareerLAB does not perform background checks on student applicants. Once a listing is posted, all matters relating to the internship/research position are directly between the employer and the student and Brown University will take no responsibility for the actions of the students. CareerLAB undertakes only to post listings that comply with the listing criteria established by CareerLAB. All listings are posted at the discretion of CareerLAB. No listings will be posted that appear to discriminate against applicants on the basis of sex, race, color, religion, age, national or ethnic origin, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or disability. CareerLAB reserves the right to decline to post listings that do not conform to the criteria set forth in the posting guidelines or that do not otherwise support the interests of the University and its students. The CareerLAB also reserves the right, in its sole discretion, and without notice to remove from the service any listing that falls out of compliance with the criteria, and to refuse to post any listing from any employer about which CareerLAB has received a complaint. Frequently Asked Questions Disclaimer Contact Us © 2022