Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations Welcome The C.V. Starr Program in Business, Entrepreneurship, and Organizations (BEO) is an undergraduate concentration designed to educate students to be creative and flexible leaders in a number of careers. BEO is sponsored by the departments of Economics and Sociology and the School of Engineering and engages faculty and students in the study of commercial activity, technical and social entrepreneurship, innovation, and the organizations within which such activity occurs. The BEO Concentration will be sunsetted and replaced with undergraduate concentration offered in the Departments of Economics (Business Economics) and Sociology (Organizational Studies). Brown undergraduate students admitted to the class of 2023 and earlier may pursue any of the three tracks in BEO: BEO Economics, BEO Organizational Studies or BEO Entrepreneurship & Technology Management or the new undergraduate concentration offerings in the Departments of Economics (Business Economics) and Sociology (Organizational Studies). Learn more about the Curricular Pathways to Study Business at Brown. New to Brown's undergraduate offerings is the Entrepreneurship Certificate offered through the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship. The certificate program in entrepreneurship provides curricular structure for undergraduate students who wish to make entrepreneurship an important part of their intellectual journey at Brown. Students interested in Brown's graduate programs in the field of entrepreneurship and technology management should consider the Program in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship (PRIME), offered through the School of Engineering. There is also an opportunity for more senior managers to pursue an executive MBA through the IE Brown Executive MBA Program. Home People BEO Concentration The BEO Capstone BEO Concentration FAQs and Tips Business Pathways @ Brown Graduate Research Print this Page Share this Page Sayles Hall, Suite 015 Brown University Box 1922 79-81 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-6348 Fax 401-863-6415 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Programs Program in Management and Entrepreneurship IE Brown Executive MBA Department of Sociology Department of Economics School of Engineering Get Involved BEO DUG Entrepreneurship Program BEO Newsletter | Subscribe Here Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship