Skip to main content OIT Service Center Submit a request Log in New to OIT Service Center? Register for an account Stay Logged In? Need a password reminder? Help Center Knowledgebase Teaching Learning and Research OCRA Activate Course E-reserves in Canvas Activate Course E-reserves in Canvas - Knowledgebase / Teaching Learning and Research / OCRA - OIT Service Center Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase × Print Download PDF × Copy to Clipboard Activate Course E-reserves in Canvas Authors list cbchristine brown ejedwin jeng Students can access Course E-Reserves directly in Canvas via the Course Navigation menu on the left. Follow these two simple steps to make E-Reserves accessible to students. Video Tutorial Watch the video tutorial on YouTube: https://youtu.be/6koQk9DZQv0 Text Instructions Step 1: Activate your course reserves Activate your course reserves through the library website at library.brown.edu/reserves. It may take up to 24 hours for your request to be processed. Online readings and film requests will take 7-14 business days to be completed. Step 2: Enable links in Canvas to E-Reserves Once your E-Reserves are available, you can enable a direct link to your E-Reserves in Canvas. Log in to Canvas at canvas.brown.edu. Select your course in the Global Navigation menu on the left. Click Settings in the Course Navigation menu. Click the Navigation tab at the top of the Settings page. Click and drag E-Reserves from the bottom section of hidden tools to the top section of visible tools. Beginning AY 15-16, you should see Media Library already present in your Course Navigation menu. Click Save. Students can access course readings and audio files by clicking E-Reserves and full feature films by clicking Media Library, without reentering their login information. Helpful Unhelpful 33 of 48 people found this page helpful Send us a note about this article Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase Author Stephanie Obodda Contact the OIT Service Center Phone: 401-863-4357 Email: help@brown.edu Location: Page Robinson Hall - 69 Brown St., Room 510 See our availability https://it.brown.edu/get-help Walk-ins Welcome! Appointments recommended. For reserved service for a technical consult or a loaner check-out, you can schedule an appointment here. Reporting an IT Outage? Report an Outage Service Status & Alerts Phishing Warnings Powered by