Skip to content Brown Institute toggle open/close sidebar Search Search for: Menu Close News About Contact Us Press Affiliate Projects Mapping Data Flows NewsCounts Tour across the US Fashion Watch Events Upcoming Events Posters People Alumni Grantees Fellows Leadership Entrepreneurs in Residence Board of Advisors Faculty Affiliates Grants Impact Grants Flagship Grants Magic Grants 2012-2013 2013-2014 2014-2015 2015-2016 2016-2017 2017-2018 2018-2019 2019-2020 2020-2021 2021-2022 Propose 2022 Call for Proposals 2022 Innovation Challenge Magic Grant Benefits and Expectations Magic Grant Eligibility for Funding Magic Grant Frequently Asked Questions Local About the Brown Institute Established in 2012, the David and Helen Gurley Brown Institute is a collaboration between Columbia University and Stanford University, designed to encourage and support new endeavors in media innovation. At Stanford, the primary focus is on media technology, and the Institute is anchored in the School of Engineering. At Columbia, the primary focus is on content, and the Institute is anchored in the Graduate School of Journalism. To achieve its goals, the Brown Institute operates as an academic venture forum. Once per year, we invite the Columbia and Stanford communities to submit proposals for Magic Grants. We look for ideas that are original and have the potential to bring true innovation in the media world. Typically, a Magic Grant supports a small team of graduate students or postgraduates who are expected to demonstrate the relevance and viability of their ideas by implementing a prototype or creating an innovative media product. Successful projects might continue as business ventures outside the universities. The Institute also awards fellowships; Brown Fellows are postgraduate or graduate students who support the Institute together with their peers and the directors, while working towards engineering prototypes, creating innovative media products, or carrying out related research. Brown Fellows are appointed annually for the academic year; their terms can be renewed. The Institute was established in 2012 with a generous endowment gift from longtime Cosmopolitan magazine editor and author Helen Gurley Brown. It is inspired by the memory of Ms. Brown’s late husband, David Brown, a graduate of both Stanford University and the Columbia School of Journalism. David Brown, who along with partners Richard Zanuck and Steven Spielberg created such classic American films as Driving Miss Daisy, The Verdict and Jaws, was also a former journalist, publisher and, late in his career, a stage producer whose credits included the musicals Sweet Smell of Success and Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. At Stanford, the Institute is led by Prof. Maneesh Agrawala. At Columbia, the Institute is led by Prof. Mark Hansen. In addition to its founding endowment, funding for the Brown Institute is also provided by the Pussycat Foundation, the Stephen Birnbaum Foundation, PBS FRONTLINE, the Collaboratory at Columbia University, the Sloan Foundation, Microsoft Research, Lila Gault and Bill Arp, The Fledgling Fund, and Richard Witten. The Brown Institute is serving as an incubator for the Columbia Journalism School’s Local News Initiative funded by the Dolan Family Foundation. Project funding for the individual work of Professor Mark Hansen comes from the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation. Search for: Search @browninstitute Join us! Be sure to register https://t.co/YBYRlQSxOD https://t.co/vvsdNdK6sL, May 27 Exploring the power of computation in journalism, telling deep stories. https://t.co/OjWl5czP2B, May 20 Huge congratulations to @kcecireyes on her 2022 Pulitzer Prize in Local Reporting - for her investigation of fatal fires in Chicago. @kcecireyes was also a 2014-2015 Magic Grantee (!) Her project was an early study into online advertising. Congratulations! https://t.co/icfb0cNkL1, May 10 Follow us on Twitter or Facebook Subscribe to our Event RSS Feed Sign-up for our Newsletter Watch our videos on YouTube This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. We are adhering to the Privacy Policies as defined by Columbia University and Stanford University. You can decline cookies by adjusting your browser settings but some features of the websites may not function.Ok