Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Campus Dance The social event of the year. And it's all for you. Breadcrumb Home Events Sub Navigation In This Section Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Campus Dance The social event of the year. And it's all for you. Campus Dance is May 27, 2022 at 9 p.m. Who isn't in love with Brown the night of Campus Dance? Paper lanterns light the skies; you can float between College Green and Simmons Quad; you can swing or Macarena or get down; you can go black tie or in tie-dyed—all that matters is that you're with friends. And then, before the evening ends, there you are at the steps of Sayles Hall, with graduating seniors, alumni returning for Reunion Weekend, families of your fellow Brunonians, and favorite professors, watching the Senior Sing. Online ticket sales are closed. Purchase tickets in person starting May 23. Details below. Oh what a night... Need a refresher? Rewind the years and check out these Campus Dance photos through the ages: 1 of 12 2 of 12 3 of 12 4 of 12 5 of 12 6 of 12 7 of 12 8 of 12 9 of 12 10 of 12 11 of 12 12 of 12 Tickets How much does a ticket cost? Through May 26 Brown students and their families: $25 Brown alumni and community: $30 At the gate (evening of the dance) All: $35 How do I buy tickets? ONLINE TICKET SALES ARE NOW CLOSED; BUY IN PERSON STARTING MAY 23. You may purchase tickets in person at the Maddock Alumni Center May 23 – 26. Box Office hours are Monday – Thursday, 11:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. and 1:00 – 5:00 p.m. Tickets are also available for purchase the night of the dance, May 27, beginning at 8:30 p.m. Tables How much does a table cost? Brown students, their families, alumni, and community: $85 + ticket(s)* * Tickets are NOT included with the purchase of a table. How do I buy a table? It’s the same as buying tickets. See the above "How do I buy tickets?" section. Where are the tables? Tables can be found on the College Green and Ruth J. Simmons Quadrangle (Lincoln Field). How many tables are available? There are now more tables than ever (over 500 tables) (yes, 500), but they do sell out and are sold on a first-come, first-served basis. What if I want to sit near my friends? Or near one of the bands? We do our best to honor all location requests for tables. Please note when making your reservation: The College Green will feature a swing band and Ruth J. Simmons Quadrangle (Lincoln Field) will feature student bands. The 5th Reunion class will have tables reserved on Ruth J. Simmons Quadrangle (Lincoln Field) The 10th Reunion class will be located around the flagpole on the College Green The 15th through 80th Reunion classes will have tables on the College Green in front of the Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center (Faunce House) Refunds, Weather, and Safety Policies Refunds and weather policy Campus Dance is an outdoor event and will still be held even in the occurrence of rain. However in the unlikely event of stormy or severe weather with heavy rains, the Dance will be cancelled. Notification will be on this website and on signage at the main entrance to the dance. Refunds are only issued if Campus Dance is cancelled due to inclement weather. Safety policy: No backpacks, bottles Please keep backpacks, bottles at home. To ensure the safety of our guests, there will be no backpacks, glass bottles, or beverages allowed into the Dance. We will be checking bags at the entrance, so please allow for additional time for entry into the dance. Bars & Beverage Tokens Where are the bars? A total of five bars serving alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages are stationed both on the College Green and Ruth J. Simmons Quadrangle (Lincoln Field), including two newer bar locations: one between Hope College and Faunce House and a second behind Sayles Hall. What are beverage tokens and where can I get them? To expedite serving and shorten wait lines, you will use beverage tokens instead of exchanging cash or credit cards with the bartenders. You may purchase beverage tokens inside Salomon Hall or behind Friedman Hall (formerly Wilson Hall). Note: soda and water are free. What is the beverage policy? The Brown Alumni Association, sponsor of the Dance, provides professionally run bars serving both alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. Positive identification documenting legal age is required to purchase alcohol. Consistent with Brown’s practice at all University events, patrons are not permitted to bring beverage containers of any kind into the Dance. All patrons are urged to exercise moderation, and to ensure their own and others’ safety by not drinking and driving. Patrons engaging in disorderly conduct or in violation of the Beverage Policy will be removed from the Dance. Thank you for your patronage and cooperation. https://www.youtube.com/embed/vgGdxn9ljyk Campus Dance Time Lapse Go behind the scenes in this video clip to see how the College Green is magically transformed into open-air ballroom at Brown's annual Campus Dance. Related Links Reunion 2022 2021 Virtual Reunion Recap 2019 In-person Reunion Recap Reunion FAQs Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Campus Dance Open details for Campus Dance Bookmark this Page