Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Reunions Classes ending in 2 and 7 and recent grads are welcome back to campus May 27-29, 2022. Breadcrumb Home Events Reunions Classes ending in 2 and 7 and recent grads are welcome back to campus May 27-29, 2022. Together Again: Reunion Weekend 2022 #BrownReunion is fast approaching! Here’s everything you need to navigate what is sure to be a memorable Memorial Day weekend. Coming to campus? Back to Top See Who's Coming Check out the RSVP list and start rounding up your friends and classmates. Follow along It's #BrownReunion in real-time! Get a first-person perspective from alumni posting across social media platforms. See the weekend unfold May 26 Update on COVID-19 Protocols: Given increased rates of COVID-19 in Providence County and across the country, Brown has re-instituted its requirement that all individuals – regardless of vaccination status – must wear a well-fitting KN95, KF94, N95 or disposable/surgical mask indoors, unless in a private, non-shared space or when actively eating or drinking. The requirement aligns with guidance from the CDC and recommendations from the Rhode Island Department of Health. Visitors and guests should bring with them to campus, and carry with them at all times, an approved mask. The indoor mask requirement applies to all University-sponsored events, on- and off-campus, taking place during Commencement and Reunion Weekend and to all attendees: faculty, students, staff, families, visitors, guests and vendors. Masks can be removed indoors by a speaker while making a presentation or delivering a speech. We strongly advise individuals to take a rapid antigen test prior to attending large indoor gatherings. Brown community members, visitors and guests should not attend any University events or functions if they test positive for COVID-19 and/or are experiencing potential symptoms of COVID-19. Throughout your participation in the weekend’s activities, please visit the "Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests" portion of Brown’s Healthy Brown website for the most up-to-date information for graduates, families and guests participating in Commencement and Reunion. Trip Tips Check-in Once you arrive on campus and park, your first stop will be Reunion Check-In. Arriving on Friday? 5th-20th Reunion classes, head straight to Pembroke Green. 25th - 75th reunions, check in at Wriston Quad. Arriving on Saturday? Everyone, head straight to Wriston Quad. Campus Map A few things might have changed since your days on College Hill. Check out the updated campus map to get the lay of the land before you return to Providence. Parking & shuttles You may leave your car in any of the University parking lots anytime from Friday 5 p.m. through the weekend. For directions and to learn about on-street parking, check out the “Parking” section of the Reunion FAQs. Shuttles will be available to transport guests from the Jewelry District neighborhood, southwest of Downtown Providence where Lot 200 and Lot 222 are located, to the main campus during Commencement and Reunion Weekend. For more information about shuttles, see the Commencement website. The SAS (Student Accessibility Services) Shuttle provides rides on request to locations throughout campus for people with disabilities or medical conditions. To reach the SEAS shuttle dispatcher please call +1 (401) 225-9572. Registration Online Reunion registration is now closed. While some events may be sold out, we can register you on-site with an additional fee. Reunion@Home Back to Top Not coming to campus? Not a problem. If you’re joining in spirit (a.k.a. remotely), there are plenty of ways to get involved with #BrownReunion from the comfort of home: Virtual Trivia Hub (Saturday, 7–8:30 p.m.) Class Hangouts (Saturday, 8:30–10:30 p.m.) Virtual Photo Booth Procession Livestream Unity Funk Nite Class Playlists Brown Recipes And more! Browse Reunion@Home activities FAQs Back to Top Have a question? Get your answer. Browse common Reunion topics to find whatever it is you're looking for. REUNION FAQ's https://www.youtube.com/embed/xPRbbuRWCns That Reunion State of Mind Joy. Laughter. Connection. Get a feel for what's in store May 27-29 with this short highlight reel of Reunions past. Related Links Back to Top See Who's Coming Alumni Directory Reunion & Class Giving Reunion FAQs Medical Reunion Weekend Commencement Volunteer Opportunities Brown Bookstore Weekend Schedule Back to Top Friday, May 27, 2022 8:30 a.m. – midnight Maddock Alumni Center Open Maddock Alumni Center, 38 Brown Street (corner of George) Alumni are invited to visit the official alumni hospitality center for Reunion Weekend. Reunion student staff are available throughout the weekend to offer assistance with event locations, provide directions around campus and in Providence, and answer any questions you may have concerning Reunion Weekend. noon – 10:30 p.m. Reunion Check-In Open Pembroke Campus (next to Alumnae Hall) or Wriston Quadrangle New this year! Start your Reunion by officially checking in! Receive all your purchased event tickets and Campus Dance tokens, along with your name tag and class button. Step into the Reunion Shop to browse a wide array of Reunion keepsakes and mementos. 5th through 20th Reunion classes (and recent grads!) will check in under the tent on the Pembroke Campus and the 25th through 80th Reunion classes will check in under the tent on the Wriston Quad. For Saturday arrivals, all classes will register on Wriston Quad. 1 p.m. Jumu’ah Prayer Sayles Hall Auditorium 5 p.m. Hillel Welcome Reception Glenn and Darcy Weiner Center (Brown-RISD Hillel), 80 Brown Street Enjoy a l’chaim in honor of the Class of 2022 and all returning alumni. Wine and hors d’oeuvres. Call +1 (401) 863-2805 or email info@brownrisdhillel.org. 5 p.m. Brown Parking Lots Open Brown parking lots open for use by Reunion and Commencement guests throughout the weekend. 5 – 7 p.m. Department of Computer Science 43rd Reunion Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT), 115 Waterman Street (3rd, 4th, and 5th floors) Come celebrate with Computer Science alumni, faculty, students, and friends! Directions to the Center for Information Technology are on our website, and please contact dept@cs.brown.edu or +1 (401) 863-7600 for more information. 6 p.m. Shabbat Evening Services Glenn and Darcy Weiner Center (Brown-RISD Hillel), 80 Brown Street Welcome Shabbat with song and prayer. 7:15 p.m. Hillel Community Kiddush and Shabbat Dinner Glenn and Darcy Weiner Center (Brown-RISD Hillel), 80 Brown Street Celebrate with a delicious Shabbat meal focused on graduating seniors, returning alumni, and their families. REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED for Shabbat meals ($36/adults, $18/students and children). Call +1 (401) 863-2805 or email info@brownrisdhillel.org. 8 – 9 p.m. Unity Celebration Maddock Alumni Center Garden Tent, 38 Brown Street Celebrate the diversity of Brown’s student and alumni community with Brown’s alumni affinity groups: Asian/Asian American Alumni Alliance, Brown University Latino Alumni Council, Inman Page Black Alumni Council, Native American Brown Alumni, and Brown Transgender, Bisexual, Gay and Lesbian Alumni. Enjoy a presentation of gifts to representatives from the graduating Class of 2020 and Class of 2022. Raise a glass to Brown’s alumni leaders and graduates in recognition of their accomplishments. Co‐sponsored by Brown Alumni Association, the LGBTQ Center, and the Brown Center for Students of Color (formerly the Third World Center). 9 p.m. – midnight Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) Reception Brown Center for Students of Color, Partridge Hall, 68 Brown Street Take a break from Campus Dance and stop by the BCSC (formerly the Third World Center). Mingle with classmates and friends, enjoy music and refreshments, and celebrate the rich legacy of the center. Co-sponsored by the BCSC and the Brown Alumni Association. 9 p.m. – 1 a.m. Campus Dance The College Green and Ruth J. Simmons Quadrangle One of Brown’s best-loved Reunion Weekend traditions, Campus Dance brings more than 11,000 people out to dance the night away under a sky lit with hundreds of paper lanterns. Tables for each Reunion class are reserved throughout the College Green and Simmons Quad (Lincoln Field). There are five beverage areas throughout the Dance; beverage tokens can be purchased in the lobby of Salomon Hall or behind Friedman Hall (formerly Wilson Hall). Tickets to the Dance not purchased in advance will go on sale beginning at 8:30 p.m. Sponsored by the Brown Alumni Association. Note: To ensure the safety of our guests, no backpacks, glass bottles, or beverages are allowed into the Dance. Bags will be checked at the entrance, so please allow additional time for entry. Saturday, May 28, 2022 7 – 9:30 a.m. Reunion and Commencement Weekend Breakfast Sharpe Refectory All are welcome! Get energized for the day with a hot breakfast buffet including pancakes, eggs, home fries, fruit, muffins, cereal, coffee, juice, and more. Tickets available at the door. 8 a.m. – 2 p.m. Reunion Check-In for All Classes Wriston Quadrangle Registration continues for late arrivals. 8:30 a.m. – midnight Maddock Alumni Center Open Maddock Alumni Center, 38 Brown Street Alumni information and hospitality center for Reunion Weekend. 8:30 a.m. All-Class Memorial Service Sayles Hall Join fellow alumni for this meaningful ceremony officiated by University Chaplain Janet Cooper Nelson and featuring instrumental music selections from University Organist Mark Steinbach, plus hear select readings by alumni leaders. 9–10:30 a.m. Catholic Community Reception Brown-RISD Catholic Center, 51 Prospect Street (corner of Prospect & Olive Streets) Alumni, graduating seniors, and their families are invited to the Brown-RISD Catholic Center as we continue to celebrate the opening of our brand new space. Coffee and pastries will be provided. 9:45 a.m. Class of 2020 Procession Cheer on members of the Class of 2020 as they take their long-awaited trip through the Van Wickle Gates and process down College Hill to the First Baptist Meeting House for their Commencement Ceremony. For this special Procession, be sure to stake out your spot on the corner of Prospect Street and Waterman Street by 9:30 a.m. and begin the cheering. Following the Procession, family, friends, and alumni are invited to watch the ceremony from the College Green, where the event will be simulcast. 10 a.m. Shabbat Morning Services Glenn and Darcy Weiner Center (Brown-RISD Hillel), 80 Brown Street 10 a.m. — Orthodox Services 10:30 a.m. — Egalitarian Services 10:30 a.m. Delt Foundation Memorial Service All members of the Brown community are welcome to join the Delt Foundation in remembrance of the Brown alumni lost in the 9/11 attacks: Donald Greene ’71, Chuck Margiotta ’79, Dave Laychak ’83, Joanne Weil ’84, Ray Rocha ’95, and Paul Sloan ’97. We will also remember Dimitri Gavriel ’97, who was killed in action in Fallujah, Iraq. Gather at 10:15 a.m. at Wayland Arch and process to the memorial locust tree on Patriots Court. noon – 3 p.m. Alumni Field Day Erickson Athletic Complex Fields 5th-30th Reunion classes, medical school alumni, and recent grads: you’re invited to an outdoor extravaganza! Catch up with friends under your class/school tents, take a pic with Bruno…or just relax and hang with fellow alumni. Kids of all ages can take the field in wiffle ball or kickball, enjoy live music, explore the Bruno Activity Zone, and more. Plus, this is your chance to jam out to classic Dave Binder tunes once again! “Unicorn Song” anyone? For lunch, bring your own or buy tickets to a traditional hamburger and hot dog barbecue (vegan and vegetarian options available). Pair your meal with a lemonade, or select sangria, beer, or non-alcoholic beverages from a cash bar. Don’t miss the complimentary ice cream novelties! Note: A limited number of tickets will be available for purchase at the Field Day gate. Field Day is held rain or shine. Neither pets nor outside alcoholic beverages are allowed on the athletic fields. Sponsored by the Brown Alumni Association. 12:30 – 1:30 p.m. Kiddush Luncheon Glenn and Darcy Weiner Center (Brown-RISD Hillel), 80 Brown Street REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED for Shabbat Meals ($18/adult, $12/students and children). 3:30 – 6 p.m. Inman Page Black Alumni Council (IPC) Annual Meeting and Reception Smith-Buonanno Hall, Lobby and Room 106, 95 Cushing Street The IPC Board of Governors invites you to attend its annual meeting and to hear about its activities and any proposed amendments to the constitution or by-laws that may be submitted for IPC member voting. Seniors and IPC members are encouraged to attend and learn about how they can become involved. Join members for refreshments at a post-meeting reception! 4 – 6 p.m. BOLT Student-Alumni Reception Machado House, 87 Prospect Street Past Brown Outdoor Leadership Training (BOLT) leaders, participants, and families are invited to BOLT’s Reunion gathering. Meet old and new BOLT friends and learn what has been happening since you graduated. Refreshments provided. 4 – 6 p.m. Brown Daily Herald Reunion 88 Benevolent Street Catch up with old colleagues and reminisce about your days—and nights—at the paper. See The Herald's new office and hear about new initiatives at the paper! Refreshments will be served. 4 – 6 p.m. Annual Asian / Asian American Alumni Alliance (A4) Commencement Celebration Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center, Kasper Multipurpose Room, 75 Waterman Street A4 will recognize members of the Class of 2020 and Class of 2022 and their families with an afternoon of hospitality and entertainment. Stop by to visit, watch student group performances, and enjoy light refreshments. Congratulate this year’s recipients of the annual A4 Community Contribution Award. Students, alumni, community members, and friends are welcome. This is a great opportunity to catch up with friends and help celebrate the accomplishments of Brown’s diverse community! 4 – 6 p.m. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Commencement Reception & Startup Fair 1 Euclid Ave. (right across from the Brown Bookstore) Join us as we celebrate and acknowledge the 2020 and 2022 graduates, alumni of the Business, Entrepreneurship, and Organizations Program (BEO), and special guests. Drinks and hors d’oeuvres served. 4 – 5:30 p.m. Recovery Meeting Smith Buonanno Hall G12 An all recovery meeting for students, faculty, staff, alumni, and families to celebrate their recovery in the context of their experience at Brown. All are welcome. 4:30 p.m. 70th Chattertocks Anniversary Maddock Alumni Center Garden Tent, 38 Brown Street The Chattertocks are the longest-running a cappella group at Brown. We are a group of women and other historically marginalized genders with a rich history on Brown’s campus. This Spring, we will be celebrating our 70th anniversary. We welcome Chattertocks alumni, friends, family, and the greater Brown community to celebrate 70 years of creating and sharing music on College Hill. Please join us to commemorate the history and accomplishments of Brown and of our group, with light refreshments and the performance of our alumni song, “My Funny Valentine." 5 – 7 p.m. Brown TBGALA (Transgender, Bisexual, Gay, and Lesbian Alumni) Reception Robinson Hall, 64 Waterman Street This annual tradition brings graduating students and their families together with alumni, faculty, administrators, and staff. Discover friends old and new, congratulate degree recipients—both undergraduate and graduate—and learn more about TBGALA. Includes light refreshments, beer and wine. 6:30 – 8:30 p.m. Natives at Brown Commencement Dinner John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage, Nightingale-Brown House Lawn, 357 Benefit Street The third annual Natives at Brown Commencement Dinner celebrates the Indigenous Class of 2020, Class of 2021, and Class of 2022. We wish to honor their achievements, families, and communities. Join alumni, faculty, and staff as we welcome this year’s graduates into the NABA community and commemorate their dedication and endeavors. Co-sponsored by Native American Brown Alumni (NABA), the Brown Alumni Association, and the Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative (NAISI). 6:30 p.m. Third Meal Glenn and Darcy Weiner Center (Brown-RISD Hillel), 80 Brown Street Enjoy the traditional third meal of Shabbat before sundown. REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED for Shabbat Meals ($12/person). Call +1 (401) 863-2805 or email info@brownrisdhillel.org. 9 p.m. Havdalah Glenn and Darcy Weiner Center (Brown-RISD Hillel), 80 Brown Street Experience the beautiful candlelight ritual that helps separate Shabbat from the rest of the week. 9:30 p.m. – 12:30 a.m. Unity Funk Nite Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center, Kasper Multipurpose Room, 75 Waterman Street Groove to the best music of the ’70s through today at this revival of an old Brown tradition with a multicultural twist, featuring Garfield Davidson ’00 ("DJ GARF DIGGA"). The IPC, A4, BULAC, NABA, and Brown TBGALA come together to celebrate diversity in the Brown community. This year’s event will feature an outdoor lounge perfect for catching up with friends and a virtual component that will bring alumni near and far right into the room. Alumni, seniors, and families are welcome to this evening of dancing, music and fun. This is a 21+ event. Co‐sponsored by the Brown Alumni Association and the Brown Annual Fund. Sunday, May 29, 2022 7 – 9 a.m. Pre-Commencement Procession Breakfast Sharpe Refectory All are welcome! Get energized for the day with a hot breakfast buffet. Choose from pancakes, eggs, home fries, fruit, muffins, cereal, coffee, juice and lots more. Tickets available at the door. 8 a.m. – 1 p.m. Maddock Alumni Center Open Maddock Alumni Center, 38 Brown Street (corner of George) Alumni information and hospitality center for Reunion Weekend. 8 a.m. Hillel Open House Glenn and Darcy Weiner Center (Brown-RISD Hillel), 80 Brown Street Stop by Hillel for a light breakfast on your way to the Green. We might be the closest coffee to the Procession! 8 a.m. Roman Catholic Mass Manning Hall 9:30 a.m. Commencement Procession Forms George Street One of Brown’s oldest and greatest traditions, the Procession brings together the entire Brown community. Don’t miss the opportunity to march with your classmates! Each class has a special place in the Procession, which travels from University Hall through the Van Wickle Gates and down College Hill. The procession steps off promptly at 9:30 a.m. from Waterman Street, north of Faunce Arch. Alumni are asked to assemble at their assigned class locations on George Street by 9:15 a.m. Class Events Back to Top 2017 | 2012 | 2007 | 2002 Class of 2017 Friday, May 27, 7 p.m. 5th Reunion Kickoff Alumnae Hall, Room 131, 194 Meeting Street Count down to Campus Dance at a reception specifically for the Class of 2017! The hors d’oeuvres are on Brown (yes, you read that right!); the beer-and-wine cash bar is on you. Saturday, May 28, 2-3:30 p.m. Bruno Lounge Thayer Street Tent, 467 Brook Street After spending some time at Field Day, join classmates under the Thayer Street Tent where you can enjoy craft beers from Narragansett Brewing Company—a longtime Rhode Island favorite and Brown alumni-owned. Pub food and good conversation will make for a great afternoon. Saturday, May 28, 9 p.m. 5th Reunion Saturday Night Party at the Ratty Sharpe Refectory, Upper Level, 144 Thayer Street Flashback to your very best Ratty days with a DJ, photo booth, drinks, and dancing. Plus pizza, and oh yes, cookies. Cash bar. Class of 2012 Friday, May 27, 7 p.m. 10th Reunion Kickoff Tent at New Pembroke Dorm (off Thayer Street), 219 Bowen Street Reunite with classmates, catch up with old friends, and enjoy complimentary hors d’oeuvres along with a cash bar offering beer and wine before strolling up to Campus Dance. Saturday, May 28, 9 p.m. 10th Reunion Saturday Night Class Reception Front Green Tent in front of Rhode Island Hall, 60 George Street The Class of 2012 is invited to reunite under the tent on the Front Green for an evening of music, dancing, and revelry to celebrate ten years of success after Brown. Appetizers and a full open bar will be available. Class of 2007 Friday, May 27, 7 p.m. 15th Reunion Kickoff Crystal Room, Alumnae Hall, 194 Meeting Street Welcome back, Class of 2007! Reconnect with friends and enjoy passed hors d’oeuvres and a full bar for this pre-Campus Dance welcome event before we dance under the “Friday Night Lights” of the Main Green. A coloring table will be set up to entertain your kids. Saturday, May 28, 7 p.m. 15th Reunion Class Dinner Barus & Holley Tent, 184 Hope Street Join your classmates for a reception and dinner before we dance the night away. Enjoy great music from 2003-2007 so we can party like we’re back in college! Guests and children are welcome and those under 5 years old are free. Class of 2002 Friday, May 27, 7 p.m. Class of 2002 | 20th Reunion Kickoff South Walkway Tent, 86-94 Waterman Street The perfect way to start Reunion Weekend! Meet up with classmates you haven’t seen in 20 years in a relaxed setting. Enjoy being in our own festive tent, complete with appetizers and drinks before Campus Dance starts. Children are welcome. Saturday, May 28, 7 p.m. Class of 2002 | 20th Reunion Class Dinner Simmons Quad Tent, 168 Thayer Street Put on your best threads and party like it’s 2002! Join classmates under the Simmons Quad tent and enjoy a variety of dinner stations and an open bar while you dance the night away to your favorite jams from college. 1997 | 1992 | 1987 | 1982 Class of 1997 Friday, May 27, 7 p.m. 25th Reunion Kickoff — Cocktails and Canapes Front Green Tent – Rhode Island Hall, 60 George Street Let’s kick our 25th Reunion off right by reconnecting with friends and classmates under the stars on the beautiful “Quiet” Front Green. Enjoy ample, delicious food and drink before heading over to Campus Dance, just steps away on the Main Green! Whether you’ve traveled from near or far, there’s no better time to rekindle friendships and reminisce about our days on College Hill. Families welcome! *Important note – Please enter the Green at the gate on George Street (across from Bannister Street). Saturday, May 28, 7 p.m. 25th Reunion Class Dinner & Dance Wriston Quadrangle, 31 Brown Street After a super fun day connecting with friends and their broods, it’s time to dine and dance the night away. We’re recreating Funk Night on Wriston with all your favorite jams playing throughout the night! Come raise a glass, kick off your shoes, and continue those conversations with friends old and new at an evening of dinner and dancing with ’97 classmates. This event will be one to remember! Families welcome. Class of 1992 Friday, May 27, 6 p.m. 30th Reunion Kickoff Andrews Commons, 211 Bowen Street Let’s start our 30th Reunion off right with drinks and hors d’oeuvres before heading off to Campus Dance! Whether you’ve traveled from near or far, there’s no better time to rekindle friendships and reminisce about our days on College Hill. Saturday, May 28, 7 p.m. 30th Reunion Class Dinner Giancarlo Plaza Tent, 345 Brook Street After spending the day meeting families and catching up with friends at Field Day and other events, come raise a glass and continue those conversations with friends old and new at an evening of dinner and dancing with your Class of ’92 classmates. This event will be one to remember! Class of 1987 Friday, May 27, 6 p.m. 35th Reunion Kickoff Ittleson Quad Tent (in front of Nelson Fitness Center), 225 Hope Street Kick off Reunion Weekend in style by joining classmates for dinner in our own beautiful tent at Ittleson Quad. We'll enjoy a chance to unwind with a full bar and a wide variety of stationary and passed hors d'oeuvres. After our reception, we will stroll down to the incomparable Campus Dance, where we'll have tables reserved for our Class. Saturday, May 28, noon–2 p.m. BBQuad Ittleson Quad, (in front of Nelson Fitness Center), 225 Hope Street Together, the 35th and 40th Reunions are invited to BBQuad, an upscale BBQ with lawn games and cocktails. Enjoy an afternoon of nostalgic entertainment by Dave Binder (Unicorn Song, anyone?) and an exciting Steel Drum Band. Connect with old friends or make new connections on the decked-out Ittleson Quad full of fun festivities. Saturday, May 28, 7:30 p.m. 35th Reunion Class Dinner Sayles Hall, 81 Waterman Street Join classmates for what is sure to be a memorable night! We’ll start the evening with cocktails, hors d'oeuvres, and an antipasto station followed by dinner with something for everyone–salad, pasta creations, fish, and a carving station (gluten-free and vegan options included). After indulging, we’ll have a DJ playing tunes of our “era” so we can kick up our heels and celebrate like it's 1987! Requests are welcome, too! We’ll also be striking some fun poses in our photo booth, preserving memories of a wonderful evening with friends, both old and new. Class of 1982 Friday, May 27, 6:30 p.m. 40th Reunion Kickoff Sayles Hall, 81 Waterman Street Join your ’82 classmates in one of Brown's most central and gorgeous settings for a fun and fabulous pre-Campus Dance dinner you will never forget! No need to worry about the rain this time (remember 1982?), as we'll be gathering in the historic and beautiful Sayles Hall to share old memories and make new ones over thoughtfully curated fare and desserts. Raise a glass (or several!) at our open bar of beer and wine plus a special 40th Reunion cocktail. After dinner, just step outside to be in the center of the action of Campus Dance on the Main Green, where we'll gather for more fun and conversation at tables set aside just for our class. Please note: all must arrive by 7:30 p.m. or access to Green and Sayles Hall will be blocked until 9 p.m. Saturday, May 28, noon–2 p.m. BBQuad Ittleson Quad, (in front of Nelson Fitness Center), 225 Hope Street Together, the 35th and 40th Reunions are invited to BBQuad, an upscale BBQ with lawn games and cocktails. Enjoy an afternoon of nostalgic entertainment by Dave Binder (Unicorn Song, anyone?) and an exciting Steel Drum Band. Connect with old friends or make new connections on the decked-out Ittleson Quad full of fun festivities. Saturday, May 28, 2:30 p.m. Alumni Panel — Making the World Better in Small and Big Ways: Lessons from Brown + 40 Years Metcalf Research Building, Friedman Auditorium, 190 Thayer Street Join classmates for a lively (and humble) panel conversation about how we find ways to make a difference – in a school, a business, a nonprofit, a neighborhood, or a country. Afterward, please join us for an extended, informal discussion. Saturday, May 28, 7 p.m. 40th Reunion & 60th Birthday Bash Gala Dinner South Walkway Tent, 86-94 Waterman Street It's finally time to party! Join us for a festive and elegant feast as we celebrate all our 60th birthdays in person (and in style!) after so many recently postponed gatherings. A beautiful tented venue just steps from the Main Green will be the setting for a sumptuous dinner and open bar with tables for socializing, followed by a DJ spinning 70s and 80s music sure to get you on your feet. 1977 | 1972 | 1967 | 1962 Class of 1977 Friday, May 27, 6 p.m. 45th Reunion Kickoff Front Green Tent — Manning Hall, 21 Prospect Street Start our 45th Reunion off right with cocktails and hors d'oeuvres prepared specially for our class. Reconnect with Class of ’77 classmates before heading off together to Campus Dance! Saturday, May 28, 12 p.m. 45th Reunion Class Lunch Andrews Commons, 211 Bowen Street Continue catching up with old friends and making new ones when we join together to indulge in some lunch. Hope to see you there! Saturday, May 28, 6 p.m. 45th Reunion Class Dinner Andrews Commons, 211 Bowen Street Our celebratory event begins with cocktails and appetizers, followed by a special dinner that will offer “A Taste of Rhode Island.” Our playlist of music will transport you back in time. Whether you’ve traveled from near or far, there’s no better time to rekindle old friendships and reminisce about our days on College Hill. Class of 1972 Friday, May 27, 5:30 p.m. 50th Reunion Kickoff Pembroke Field Tent, 268-252 Meeting Street Reconnect and reminisce with your ‘72 classmates! Fill your plate with a full range of delicious dinner fare and desserts — and don’t forget to grab a cocktail from the open bar! After dinner, head over to Campus Dance on the Main Green where classmates can gather at tables set aside just for our class. Saturday, May 28, 12 p.m. 50th Reunion Lunch Giancarlo Plaza Tent, 345 Brook Street Our Saturday class luncheon will feature two of Brown's most recognized and admired members of the faculty: Barrett Hazeltine and Andries van Dam, who have taught legions of Brown students over the past five decades and have made enormous contributions to Brown's academic standing in engineering and computer science. Hazeltine and van Dam will give their perspectives of the past 50 years both at Brown and in their areas of professional interest. Not to be missed! Saturday, May 28, 12:15 p.m. 50th Reunion Class Photo Giancarlo Plaza Tent, 345 Brook Street Please be a part of these memorable photos, whether you plan to purchase a copy or not. Saturday, May 28, 6 p.m. 50th Reunion Saturday Night Event Pembroke Field Tent, 268-252 Meeting Street Return to the elegant tent on Pembroke Field for cocktails and passed hors d’oeuvres. Enjoy a hearty dinner designed to give you time to mingle with friends old and new before the music starts playing our favorite tunes. Take some pictures at our photo booth and recall the days before cell phones were invented. We will be honored with the attendance of Barbara Tannenbaum, one of Brown's most honored and popular faculty members, and someone who has turned Persuasive Communications into an art form. Class of 1967 Friday, May 27, 6:30 p.m. 55th Reunion Kickoff The University Club, Providence Room, 219 Benefit Street Reconnect and reminisce with your ’67 classmates! Fill your plate with a full range of delicious fare and desserts from a variety of food stations and enjoy an open bar. After dinner, head over to Campus Dance on the Main Green, where classmates can gather at tables set aside just for our class. Conveniently located near campus, the University Club provides valet parking and is handicapped-accessible. Saturday, May 28, 12 p.m. 55th Brown Reunion Luncheon The Faculty Club, Huttner Room, 1 Bannister Street Enjoy a light lunch in the Brown Faculty Club. Don’t miss this opportunity to meet, reminisce, and catch up with classmates! Saturday, May 28, 12 p.m. 55th Pembroke College Reunion Luncheon The Faculty Club, Landscape Room, 1 Bannister Street The elegant Brown Faculty Club is the setting for the Pembroke class lunch. Don’t miss this opportunity to meet, reminisce, and catch up with fellow Pembrokers! Saturday, May 28, 2 p.m. 55th Reunion Class Photo The Faculty Club, 1 Bannister Street Please be a part of these memorable photos, whether you plan to purchase a copy or not. Saturday, May 28, 6 p.m. 55th Reunion Class Dinner The Hope Club, Ballroom, 6 Benevolent Street Enjoy a cocktail reception, seated dinner, and dessert accompanied by a jazz trio in the elegant Hope Club Ballroom. Conveniently located near campus, the Hope Club has an adjacent parking lot with an attendant and is handicapped-accessible. Class of 1962 Friday, May 27, 6 p.m. 60th Reunion Kickoff The Faculty Club, 1 Bannister Street Reconnect and reminisce with your ’62 classmates! Enjoy the evening while indulging in cocktails and a light supper of passed hors d’oeuvres, cheeses, and desserts. Catch up with old friends and make new memories at Brown. Afterwards, you may wish to head over to the Campus Dance on the Main Green, where classmates can gather at tables set aside just for your class. Saturday, May 28, 11 a.m. Campus Walking Tour Tour departs from Maddock Alumni Center, 38 Brown Street Interested in seeing how the Brown campus has been transformed since our student days? Join this tour of new buildings and other changes led by a current Brown student. Please note: this tour will require walking (but no downhill or uphill climbs), so be sure to wear comfortable shoes! Saturday, May 28, 12 p.m. 60th Reunion Saturday Luncheon and Class Meeting Maddock Alumni Center Garden Tent, 38 Brown Street Enjoy an elegant afternoon in the garden while reminiscing with classmates and indulging in a served lunch followed by a class meeting in the Maddock Garden Tent. We expect this will be the best-attended event and the highlight of your Reunion Weekend! Saturday, May 28, 2:30 p.m. 60th Reunion Class Photo Maddock Alumni Center Garden Tent, 38 Brown Street Please be a part of this shoot, whether or not you plan to purchase a copy. Class photos are part of Brown’s archival collection. Saturday, May 28, 6 p.m. 60th Reunion Saturday Night Event The University Club, 219 Benefit Street Reconnect with your classmates during a reception at the University Club. After the reception, sit down, relax and enjoy a delicious three-course meal while catching up with old friends, sharing memories, and reflecting on your time at Brown. Conveniently located near campus, the University Club provides valet parking and is handicapped-accessible. A shuttle service is available upon request by calling the Student Accessibility Services (SAS) department at (401) 863-9588. 1957 | 1952 | 1947 | 1942 Class of 1957 Friday, May 27, 6 p.m. 65th Reunion Kickoff The Hope Club, 6 Benevolent Street Join classmates for a wonderful start to Reunion Weekend! Enjoy a delicious dinner with a full bar at the Hope Club, catch-up with friends, and reminisce about our years at Brown and Pembroke.The 70th Reunion class will join us for dinner. Conveniently located near campus, the Hope Club has an adjacent parking lot with an attendant and is handicapped-accessible. Saturday, May 28, 11:30 a.m. 65th Reunion Class Photo The University Club, 219 Benefit Street Please be a part of these memorable photos, whether you plan to purchase a copy or not. Saturday, May 28, 12 p.m. 65th Reunion Class Luncheon The University Club, 219 Benefit Street Join your classmates from the Brown Class of 1957 in the University Club for a special Brown Class Luncheon. Enjoy a delicious lunch while sharing memories of your time at Brown and beyond! The 70th Reunion will also join us for lunch. Conveniently located near campus, the University Club provides valet parking and is handicapped-accessible. Saturday, May 28, 6 p.m. 65th Reunion Class Dinner The Hope Club, 6 Benevolent Street With pride and joy, we invite you to share in the milestone of our 65th Reunion. We hope you plan on attending this wonderful evening planned just for you! The 70th Reunion class will join us for an elegant dinner served at the Hope Club. Conveniently located near campus, the Hope Club has an adjacent parking lot with an attendant and is handicapped-accessible. Class of 1952 Friday, May 27, 6 p.m. 70th Reunion Friday Night Event The Hope Club, 6 Benevolent Street Join classmates for a wonderful start to Reunion Weekend! Enjoy a delicious dinner with a full bar at the Hope Club, catch up with friends, and reminisce about our years at Brown and Pembroke. The Class of 1957 will join us for dinner. Conveniently located near campus, the Hope Club has an adjacent parking lot with an attendant and is handicapped-accessible. Saturday, May 28, 11:30 a.m. 70th Reunion Class Photo The University Club, 219 Benefit Street Please be a part of these memorable photos, whether you plan to purchase a copy or not. Saturday, May 28, 12 p.m. 70th Reunion Class Lunch The University Club, 219 Benefit Street Join your classmates from Brown Class of 1952 in the University Club for a special Brown Class Luncheon. Enjoy a delicious lunch while sharing memories of your time at Brown and beyond! The Class of 1957 will also join us for lunch. Conveniently located near campus, The University Club provides valet parking and is handicapped-accessible. Saturday, May 28, 6 p.m. 70th Reunion Class Dinner The Hope Club, 6 Benevolent Street With pride and joy, we invite you to share in the milestone of our 70th Reunion. We hope you plan on attending this wonderful evening planned just for you! The Class of 1957 will join us for an elegant dinner served at the Hope Club. Conveniently located near campus, the Hope Club has an adjacent parking lot with an attendant and is handicapped-accessible. Class of 1947 Friday, May 27, 6 p.m. 75th Reunion Kickoff The Hope Club, 6 Benevolent Street Join classmates for a wonderful start to Reunion Weekend! Enjoy a delicious dinner with a full bar at the Hope Club, catch up with friends, and reminisce about our years at Brown and Pembroke. The 65th & 70th Reunion classes will join us for dinner. Conveniently located near campus, the Hope Club has an adjacent parking lot with an attendant and is handicapped-accessible. Saturday, May 28, 11:30 a.m. 75th Reunion Class Photo The University Club, 219 Benefit Street Please be a part of these memorable photos, whether you plan to purchase a copy or not. Saturday, May 28, 12:00 p.m. 75th Reunion Class Luncheon The University Club, 219 Benefit Street Join your classmates from Brown Class of 1942 in the University Club for a special Brown Class Luncheon. Enjoy a delicious lunch while sharing memories of your time at Brown and beyond! The 65th, 70th, and 75th Reunion classes will also join us for lunch. Conveniently located near campus, The University Club provides valet parking and is handicapped accessible. Saturday, May 28, 6 p.m. 75th Reunion Celebratory Dinner The Hope Club, 6 Benevolent Street With pride and joy, we invite you to share in the milestone of our 75th Reunion. We hope you plan on attending this wonderful evening planned just for you! The 65th and 70th Reunion classes will join us for an elegant dinner served at the Hope Club. Conveniently located near campus, the Hope Club has an adjacent parking lot with an attendant and is handicapped accessible. Class of 1942 Saturday, May 28, 11:30 a.m. 80th Reunion Class Photo The University Club, 219 Benefit Street Please be a part of these memorable photos, whether you plan to purchase a copy or not. Saturday, May 28, 12:00 p.m. 80th Reunion Class Luncheon The University Club, 219 Benefit Street Join your classmates from Brown Class of 1942 in the University Club for a special Brown Class Luncheon. Enjoy a delicious lunch while sharing memories of your time at Brown and beyond! The 65th, 70th, and 75th Reunion classes will also join us for lunch. Conveniently located near campus, The University Club provides valet parking and is handicapped accessible. Saturday, May 28, 6 p.m. 80th Reunion Celebratory Dinner The Hope Club, 6 Benevolent Street With pride and joy, we invite you to share in the milestone of our 80th Reunion. We hope you plan on attending this wonderful evening planned just for you! The 65th, 70th, and 75th Reunion classess will join us for an elegant dinner served at the Hope Club. Conveniently located near campus, the Hope Club has an adjacent parking lot with an attendant and is handicapped accessible. Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Reunions Open details for Reunions Bookmark this Page