Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Bruno Lab Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded People Publications Gallery Video Library Columbia | Bruno Lab Randy Bruno Lab at Columbia University Layer 5 neuron Welcome to the Randy Bruno Lab at Columbia University Revealing the neural circuits underlying sensory perception About Us The goal of the Bruno Lab's research is to define the underlying neural pathways and circuit elements that contribute to sensory perception: how information from the outside world is relayed to the neocortex, and how subsequent processing among cortical layers and thalamic nuclei contribute to perception, learning, remembering, and reasoning. Our experiments combine behavior with intracellular physiology, array recordings, two-photon microscopy, optogenetics, and computational modeling. We focus on the whisker-barrel system, which is one of the main means by which rodents explore their environments. Recent Publication A human-specific modifier of cortical connectivity and circuit function Schmidt ERE, Zhao HT, Park JM, Dipoppa M, Monsalve-Mercado MM, Dahan JB, Rodgers CC, Hillman EM, Miller KD, Bruno RM, and Polleux F Announcements What makes humans smart? Our collaboration with Ewoud Schmidt, Frank Polleux, the Hillman Lab, and the Miller Lab shows shows how a single gene isoform alters connectivity, activity, and learning. Now out in Nature! Soon-to-be Prof. Chris Rodgers Dr Chris Rodgers will be starting his own lab at Emory University in January 2022 Behavioral Strategies & Neural Coding in Shape Discrimination Cortical representations of the world change dramatically depending on behavioral task. Our new study led by Chris Rodgers and in collaboration with Ramon Nogueira & Stefano Fusi is now online at Neuron. Jacob Dahan wins 2021 Fulbright Scholarship Congratulations to Jacob Dahan on winning a 2021 Fulbright Scholarship to work abroad! This comes on top of his Bridges & Sturtevant Prize, awarded by Columbia University to senior undergraduates who have performed outstanding research in Biology. Jacob won the 2021 prize for his work with Jung Park on the role of cortical connectivity in texture discrimination. The 2020 Barrels Meeting The Society for Neuroscience meeting may have been cancelled, but the 33rd Barrels Meeting will be held virtually on October 21-23, 2020! Click the title above for the flyer. Soon-to-be Prof. Kate Hong Congratulations to Kate Hong who will open her own lab at Carnegie Mellon University in January 2020! High-order thalamic inputs to sensory cortex are stronger and longer lasting than cortical inputs Our recent eLife paper demonstrates unique features of high-order thalamus: strong, long-lasting, and oscillatory input to cortex Sensation, Movement & Learning Without Sensory Cortex Performing and learning detection behaviors are possible without sensory cortex. Our new study led by Kate Hong is now online at Nature. Jung Park wins NSF Fellowship April 2018 - PhD student Jung Park just won a 3-year NSF Fellowship. Congratulations, Jung! Soon-to-be Prof. Constantinople Congratulations to Christine Constantinople, one of the first Bruno Lab PhD students, who will open her own lab at NYU/CNS in 2018! Support Support for our research has been provided by these sponsors. Columbia Affiliations The Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute Kavli Institute for Brain Science Department of Neuroscience Bruno Lab3227 Broadway, Room L7-009, Mail Code 9871 · New York, NY 10027 Deliveries612 West 130th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1045 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Twitter Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close