Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / Tyler School of Art and Architecture / Architecture, M.Arch. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Architecture, M.Arch. Architecture, M.S. Art Education, M.Ed. Art History, M.A. Art History, Ph.D. Ceramics, M.F.A. City and Regional Planning, M.S. Facilities Planning, M.S. Fibers and Materials Studies, M.F.A. Glass, M.F.A. Graphic and Interactive Design, M.F.A. Landscape Architecture, M.L.Arch. Metals/Jewelry/CAD-CAM, M.F.A. Painting, M.F.A. Photography, M.F.A. Printmaking, M.F.A. Sculpture, M.F.A. Graduate Certificate: Community Arts Practices Graduate Certificate: Health Facilities Planning Graduate Certificate: Sustainable Community Planning Graduate Certificate: Teaching Art Education Graduate Certificate: Transportation Planning Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Architecture, M.Arch. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts TYLER SCHOOL OF ART AND ARCHITECTURE About the Program The Master of Architecture (M.Arch.) program is a first professional degree preparing students for the practice of architecture through a rigorous course of study that engages students with urgent urban, architectural, environmental, and socio-cultural issues. The curriculum is centered on design studios that require the synthesis and application of knowledge from other coursework. Seminars in building technology, history/theory, professional practice, and research address questions in tandem with design studios. Elective courses allow students to pursue specializations with focus and intent. Together, the architecture courses satisfy professional accreditation requirements. During the final year of study, students have the opportunity to pursue a self-directed research and design thesis. The Department of Architecture and Environmental Design offers three tracks for the M.Arch.: a 1-year, 2-year, or 3-year program depending on a student's educational background upon entry to the degree. The 1-year track is a +1 accelerated undergraduate-graduate program that enables eligible students to complete the 60-credit M.Arch. degree within 15 months after receiving Temple's Bachelor of Science in Architecture (B.S.Arch.) pre-professional degree. Eligible undergraduate students use up to 12 specified graduate credits to fulfill requirements for their undergraduate degree. Upon graduation from their undergraduate program, students move seamlessly into their graduate program. At the end of the contiguous fifth year, students receive a Master of Architecture degree. To be eligible for the program, students must be declared as an Architecture major; have a minimum of 3.25 cumulative GPA in at least 45 credits of coursework taken at Temple; be able to complete their undergraduate degree in four full-time terms (beginning with their first term taking a graduate course as an undergraduate); and be able to complete the graduate degree in one additional year, including the two summer terms of graduate coursework. The 2-year track is a 60-credit degree program for students who earn Temple University’s Bachelor of Science in Architecture (B.S.Arch.) degree and for students from other four-year pre-professional degree programs with equivalent course content. The 3-year track provides a curriculum of up to 90 credits for students without a pre-professional degree in architecture. The first year of this program provides a rigorous introduction to architectural design that consists of up to 30 credits of pre-professional studies, including building technology courses, design studios, and history and theory seminars. Each student’s prior academic record is evaluated to determine program and course placement. The number of credits students need to take varies depending on the amount of pre-professional architectural course content previously satisfied by the candidate. Students who have little or no architectural content at the undergraduate level will be required to take the full 30 credits of pre-professional studies in architecture. Students who have degrees in architectural studies may receive advanced standing within the 3-year track. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 5 years Campus Location: Main Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The curriculum is designed for a full-time load of 15 credits per term. Students are, however, able to complete the degree program on a part-time basis. Study Abroad: M.Arch. students in the Professional Track may choose to study at the TU Rome or TU Japan campuses in the Spring terms. Accreditation: The M.Arch. degree program is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB), which requires publication of the following statement: In the United States, most registration boards require a degree from an accredited professional degree program as a prerequisite for licensure. The National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency authorized to accredit professional degree programs in architecture offered by institutions with U.S. regional accreditation, recognizes three types of degrees: the Bachelor of Architecture, the Master of Architecture, and the Doctor of Architecture. A program may be granted an eight-year, three-year, or two-year term of accreditation, depending on the extent of its conformance with established educational standards. Doctor of Architecture and Master of Architecture degree programs may require a pre-professional undergraduate degree in architecture for admission. However, the pre-professional degree is not, by itself, recognized as an accredited degree. Temple University's Department of Architecture and Environmental Design offers the following NAAB-accredited degree programs: M.Arch. (B.S.Arch. pre-professional degree + 60 graduate credits) M.Arch. (baccalaureate degree + up to 90 graduate credits) The next accreditation visit for all programs is 2022. Job Prospects: The Master of Architecture is an accredited professional degree program that prepares students for a career as a professional architect. Because this is an urban program located centrally in Philadelphia, engagement with the local professional community is a primary characteristic of the program. During their time in the program, students are provided with many opportunities to engage with members of the profession through design critiques and mentorship initiatives. Licensure/Certification: Licensure from a U.S. jurisdiction is required to practice Architecture in the United States. Licensure for architects is state regulated and must be obtained through achievement of three necessary components: (a) education, (b) professional practice experience, and (c) examination requirements. All states require the Architect Registration Examination® (ARE®). In addition, a majority of states require a degree that is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) and the Architectural Experience Program® (AXP®), which is administered by the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB). Temple University’s Master of Architecture is accredited by NAAB. NAAB-accredited degrees meet the education requirement for registration with all 55 U.S. licensing boards which, along with obtaining the necessary and documented experience of the AXP® and passing the ARE®, qualifies a candidate for licensure. Although required in 38 jurisdictions, graduating from a NAAB-accredited program is not required in all states. States that allow an alternative educational path for licensure typically require a longer period of professional experience and/or a preliminary examination prior to taking the ARE®. Candidates who have obtained a NAAB-accredited professional degree typically complete their licensure requirements in a shorter time frame and constitute, by far, the majority of successful candidates in the United States. The following jurisdictions require a professional degree from a NAAB-accredited program: Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Connecticut (some conditions apply), Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, Wyoming, as well as Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Washington, DC. Temple University’s Master of Architecture program also prepares students for the AXP®, which students can begin while enrolled in Temple University’s undergraduate and graduate architecture programs. The process connects students with NCARB representatives and is overseen by a faculty mentor. Successful completion of both the NAAB degree and the AXP® is required to qualify for the licensing exam in most states and territories. Additional hours or years of experience may be required beyond the AXP®. Additional requirements (such as exams, questionnaires, or specialized training) may be required depending on the state in which you intend to become licensed. For more information, visit https://www.ncarb.org/get-licensed/licensing-requirements-tool. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: Non-matriculated students must contact the Department of Architecture and Environmental Design for information. A maximum of 9 graduate credits can be taken at Temple University prior to applying to the program. Financing Opportunities: The Department of Architecture and Environmental Design has a limited number of scholarships for graduate students. Students should also check the Tyler School of Art and Architecture and Student Financial Services websites for financial aid opportunities. Students should complete a FAFSA application to determine eligibility for student financial aid, work study employment within the Department of Architecture and Environmental Design, or other eligible on-campus jobs. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: January 6 Spring: November 1 Applications are reviewed as they are received after the deadline. Applicants must meet the January 6 priority deadline to be considered for financial assistance. After January 6, applications may be considered on a rolling basis. Students are normally admitted in the Fall term. In the instance when students are admitted in the Spring, they may have limited course offerings in the first term because course sequencing begins in the Fall. See the Tyler School of Art and Architecture website for the most up-to-date application information. APPLY ONLINE to this graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 3 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members and/or professionals in the field who are familiar with the applicant's academic and professional competence. The letters should be submitted with the application at https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/, along with the statement of goals and resume. Coursework Required for Admission Consideration: The M.Arch. program has three tracks: a +1 accelerated track, a two-year 60-credit track, and a three-year track, up to 90 credits. The +1 accelerated track is open to qualified students in the Temple B.S.Arch. program. Admission into the two-year track is open only to students who have completed a pre-professional degree in Architecture, i.e., either the Temple B.S. in Architecture program or a program with course content equivalent to the current Temple University B.S. in Architecture. Admission into the three-year track is open to any student who has completed a bachelor’s degree. All applicants apply directly to the M.Arch. program, not to a specific curricular track. Admitted students are placed in the appropriate track based on a thorough review of all application materials. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: A pre-professional baccalaureate degree in Architecture (or equivalent) is required for the two-year Professional Track. A baccalaureate degree in any discipline is required for the three-year Intensive Design Track. Official transcripts from all universities/colleges attended, whether or not a degree was awarded, must be sent to Tyler School of Art and Architecture, Graduate Admissions Office, 2001 N. 13th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016. Statement of Goals: Approximately 500 to 1,000 words include your reason for pursuing a degree in Architecture; your interest in Temple's program in particular; and your aspirations and future career goals. Standardized Test Scores: GRE: Due to testing limitations related to the ongoing COVID-19 situation, the Tyler School of Art and Architecture is temporarily waiving submission of GRE scores for applicants to the M.Arch. in Architecture degree program for Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 admissions. Applicants may still voluntarily submit GRE test scores, but scores will only be used as a supplement to required application materials. All other admission requirements, including submission of scores for a standardized test of English, if applicable, still need to be met. In some circumstances, the Graduate Admissions Committee may request additional supplemental application materials or an interview as part of the admissions process. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 PTE Academic: 53 Resume: Current resume required. Portfolio: All applicants must submit a portfolio of their most important and representative design, creative, and written work. Portfolios from students with prior academic experience in Architecture should include architectural design work done in academic settings. Portfolios may also include work in the visual arts or in visual communication. In addition, work completed in practice may be included but should clearly articulate the applicant’s role in the project. Papers, research, or other materials (preferably dealing with the built environment) are invited as evidence of scholarly, academic, or creative work. Work chosen for inclusion in a portfolio should best represent the applicant's knowledge, aptitudes, interests, creative ability, and experience relative to the discipline of Architecture. The portfolio should include approximately 20 images or other items. Portfolios are to be uploaded at https://temple.slideroom.com, as instructed on the website. SlideRoom requires an additional fee for this service. Original work, slides, CD-ROMs, catalogs, photographs, books, and/or binders are not acceptable substitutes for the SlideRoom portfolio and will not be reviewed or returned. Transfer Credit: The Architecture Admissions Committee recommends the awarding of graduate transfer credits on a case-by-case basis as applications are reviewed. The maximum number of graduate transfer credits a student may receive is 9. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required to Earn the Degree: 60 for the Professional Track; up to 90 for the Intensive Design Track Required Courses: Professional Track Year 1 Fall Credit Hours ARCH 5252 Str Des for Architects 1 3 ARCH 5351 Env Control Systems 1 3 ARCH 8011 Adv Arch Des Studio 1 6 ARCH 8131 Arch Research Seminar 1 3 Term Credit Hours 15 Spring ARCH 5253 Str Des for Architects 21 3 ARCH 8013 Comprehensive Architecture Design Studio 6 ARCH 8132 Arch Research Seminar 21 3 ARCH 8352 Environmental Control Systems 2 3 Term Credit Hours 15 Year 2 Fall ARCH 8012 Elect Arch Des Studio 6 ARCH 8133 Arch Research Seminar 3 3 ARCH 9991 Directed Research (OR ARCH Elective) 3 Free Elective1 3 Term Credit Hours 15 Spring ARCH 8012 or 9996 Elect Arch Des Studio1 6 ARCH 8096 Professional Practice1 3 ARCH Elective1 3 Free Elective1 3 Term Credit Hours 15 Total Credit Hours: 60 1 ROME or TOKYO OPTION: M.Arch. students in the Professional Track can choose to study abroad at the Temple Rome or Temple Japan campuses in the Spring terms. Studio course credits count toward ARCH 8012. Architecture seminar course credits count toward Architecture elective requirements, and other coursework counts toward free elective credits in the program. Intensive Design Track Up to 30 credits are taken in Year 1, with the actual number varying according to the amount of architecture pre-professional course content previously satisfied by the student. Students are required to keep a portfolio of coursework taken in Year 1 of the Intensive Design Track. Upon successful completion of Year 1, students undergo a portfolio review prior to entering the 2-year Professional Track. Courses for the Intensive Design Track include: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses ARCH 5011 Graduate Representation Intensive 1 3 ARCH 5012 Graduate Representation Intensive 2 3 ARCH 5122 Graduate Design Foundation Intensive 1 6 ARCH 5231 Graduate Design Studio 1 6 ARCH 5232 Graduate Design Studio 2 6 Building Technology ARCH 5152 Materials and Methods of Construction 3 ARCH 5251 Structural Analysis for Architects 3 History and Theory 2 ARCH 5141 Architectural History 1: Ancient through Renaissance 3 ARCH 5142 Architectural History 2: Renaissance through 20th Century 3 ARCH 5296 Movements in Modern Architecture 3 ARCH 5596 Seminar in Architectural Theory 3 Total Credit Hours 42 1 ARCH 5122 is required of students who took fewer than 8 credits of foundation or architectural design studios as undergraduates. 2 The four courses (12 credits) identified include two courses (6 credits) that may be taken in Years 2 and 3 as architecture electives. Culminating Events: Design Studio Project: In the Intensive Design Track, students are required to take up to 18 credits of design studio and 6 credits of representation courses. Placement is assessed at the time of application and is based on the student’s portfolio and transcript. In the Professional Track, students are required to complete four design studios or three design studios and a thesis. Design Thesis: Students can undertake an independent design thesis. This option is a two-term, two-course sequence: ARCH 9991 in the Fall, and ARCH 9996 in the Spring. The result is a pre-design position paper and design project analysis, culminating in a design thesis project presentation and written/graphic documentation of the work. Contacts Program Web Address: https://tyler.temple.edu/programs/architecture Department Information: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 tyleradmissions@temple.edu 215-777-9090 Mailing Address for Official Transcripts: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 Submission Address for Portfolio: https://temple.slideroom.com/ Submission Address for All Other Application Materials: https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/ Department Contacts: Architecture Graduate Curricular Head: Pablo Meninato 205 Architecture Building pablo.meninato@temple.edu 610-659-9428 Department Chairperson: Sasha W. Eisenman 201 Dixon Hall eisenman@temple.edu 267-468-8168 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel