Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / Tyler School of Art and Architecture / Facilities Planning, M.S. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Architecture, M.Arch. Architecture, M.S. Art Education, M.Ed. Art History, M.A. Art History, Ph.D. Ceramics, M.F.A. City and Regional Planning, M.S. Facilities Planning, M.S. Fibers and Materials Studies, M.F.A. Glass, M.F.A. Graphic and Interactive Design, M.F.A. Landscape Architecture, M.L.Arch. Metals/Jewelry/CAD-CAM, M.F.A. Painting, M.F.A. Photography, M.F.A. Printmaking, M.F.A. Sculpture, M.F.A. Graduate Certificate: Community Arts Practices Graduate Certificate: Health Facilities Planning Graduate Certificate: Sustainable Community Planning Graduate Certificate: Teaching Art Education Graduate Certificate: Transportation Planning Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Facilities Planning, M.S. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts TYLER SCHOOL OF ART AND ARCHITECTURE About the Program The Master of Science in Facilities Planning is designed for those with an academic background in facilities management at the undergraduate level or those with experience through practice who want to pursue an advanced degree that focuses on further specialization in their profession. The M.S. in Facilities Planning utilizes a workshop- and seminar-based curriculum. Group work that is part of the degree program takes place in the Facilities Management Lab in Tyler’s Architecture Building, a shared group work environment for all facilities management students. Students undertaking this degree program: add to their general knowledge base and/or develop a specialized knowledge base within the facilities management profession; develop a knowledge, appreciation, and working relationship with other professionals to understand the management of facilities from the user’s needs; increase their collaborative practice skills to be better prepared for the complex working environment in the facilities management industry; and learn to better articulate facility management needs. Tyler School of Art and Architecture is committed to an interdisciplinary approach toward improving planning, design, construction, operation, and management of appropriate facilities as a way forward in education and research. As much as possible in the classroom, students work in interdisciplinary teams to address problems of facilities, replicating, to some extent, the work environment in which they will engage. A concentration in Health Facilities, which is a collaborative effort between Tyler and the College of Public Health, is available to students who want to pursue health facilities management. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 5 years Campus Location: Main Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The degree program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis. Areas of Specialization: Students may choose a concentration in Health Facilities, which is a collaborative effort between Tyler and the College of Public Health. Job Prospects: The post-professional Master of Science in Facilities Planning offers working facilities management professionals and those seeking advancement in the field the opportunity to build on their professional skills and toolsets to elevate their competency. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: Non-matriculated students must contact the Department of Architecture and Environmental Design for information. A maximum of 9 graduate credits can be taken at Temple University prior to applying to the program. Financing Opportunities: The Department of Architecture and Environmental Design has a limited number of scholarships for graduate students. Students should also check the Tyler School of Art and Architecture and Student Financial Services websites for financial aid opportunities. Students should complete a FAFSA application to determine eligibility for student financial aid, work study employment within the Department of Architecture and Environmental Design, or other eligible on-campus jobs. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: January 6 Spring: November 1 Applications are reviewed as they are received after the deadline. Applicants must meet the January 6 priority deadline to be considered for financial assistance. After January 6, applications may be considered on a rolling basis. Students are normally admitted in the Fall term. In the instance when students are admitted in the Spring, they may have limited course offerings in the first term because course sequencing begins in the Fall. See the Tyler School of Art and Architecture website for the most up-to-date application information. APPLY ONLINE to this graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 3 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members and/or professionals in the field who are familiar with the applicant's academic and professional competence. The letters should be submitted with the application at https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/, along with the statement of goals and resume. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: A baccalaureate degree is required. Applicants are expected to hold a degree in built environment professions, healthcare management, or related fields. Candidates who studied in other disciplines as an undergraduate but who have gained knowledge of facilities or healthcare management as working professionals are also considered for admission. Official transcripts from all universities/colleges attended, whether or not a degree was awarded, must be sent to Tyler School of Art and Architecture, Graduate Admissions Office, 2001 N. 13th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016. Statement of Goals: Approximately 500 to 1,000 words include your interest in Temple's program, your educational and research goals, your future career goals, and your academic and research achievements. Standardized Test Scores: GRE: Due to testing limitations related to the ongoing COVID-19 situation, the Tyler School of Art and Architecture is temporarily waiving submission of GRE scores for applicants to the M.S. in Facilities Planning degree program for Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 admissions. Applicants may still voluntarily submit GRE test scores, but scores will only be used as a supplement to required application materials. All other admission requirements, including submission of scores for a standardized test of English, if applicable, still need to be met. In some circumstances, the Graduate Admissions Committee may request additional supplemental application materials or an interview as part of the admissions process. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 PTE Academic: 53 Resume: Current resume required. Portfolio: All applicants must submit work samples of their most important and representative academic and/or professional work. Work samples can include analytical assessments, research reports, and/or other planning, design, creative, and written work. Work samples from applicants who have been in a professional setting for a period of six years or more can include student work, but the applicant should instead emphasize work done in a professional setting and clearly articulate the applicant's role in the project. Papers, research, or other materials (preferably dealing with the built environment) are invited as evidence of scholarly, academic, or creative work. As much as possible, work samples should best represent the applicant's knowledge, aptitudes, interests, creative ability, and experience relative to the program. As a guideline, the applicant should include approximately 20 images or other items. Work samples are to be uploaded at https://temple.slideroom.com, as instructed on the website. SlideRoom requires an additional fee for this service. Original work, slides, CD-ROMs, catalogs, photographs, books, and/or binders are not acceptable substitutes for the SlideRoom portfolio and will not be reviewed or returned. Transfer Credit: The Architecture Admissions Committee recommends the awarding of graduate transfer credits on a case-by-case basis as applications are reviewed. The maximum number of graduate transfer credits a student may receive is 9. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required to Earn the Degree: 30, whether or not the concentration is pursued Required Courses: M.S. with No Concentration Course List Code Title Credit Hours Facilities Workshop Course 3 Select one of the following: ARCH 5013 Facilities for Health Workshop 1 ARCH 5015 Facilities for the Arts Workshop 1 ARCH 5017 Facilities Workshop 1 Advanced Facilities Workshop Course 3 Select one of the following: ARCH 5014 Facilities for Health Workshop 2 ARCH 5016 Facilities for the Arts Workshop 2 ARCH 5018 Facilities Workshop 2 Practice and Management Course 3 Select one of the following: ARCH 5096 Health Facilities Practice and Management ARCH 8000 Spec Top Sem in Practice ARCH 8096 Professional Practice Planning and Programming Course 3 Select one of the following: ARCH 5033 Project Planning and Programming ARCH 5131 Form and Function in Health and Environments Current Topics Courses 1 3 Select three of the following: ARCH 5132 Current Topics in Health Facilities Planning and Design ARCH 5133 Current Topics in Healthy Communities and Design ARCH 5134 Current Topics in Resilience and Design ARCH 5135 Current Topics in Energy and Performance ARCH 5136 Current Topics in Fabrication and Making ARCH 5137 Current Topics in Visualization ARCH 5138 Current Topics in Materials and Design Architecture Electives 2 6 Additional Electives 2 9 Total Credit Hours 30 1 Multiple sections with different speakers are offered throughout the year. Course numbers may be taken more than once. 2 Electives are selected in consultation with an advisor. OR M.S. with Optional Concentration in Health Facilities Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses ARCH 5013 Facilities for Health Workshop 1 3 ARCH 5014 Facilities for Health Workshop 2 3 ARCH 5096 Health Facilities Practice and Management 3 ARCH 5131 Form and Function in Health and Environments 3 HIM 5112 Health Information Systems: Design and Decision Making 3 SBS 5001 Fundamentals of Public Health 3 Architecture Current Topics Courses 1 3 Select three of the following: ARCH 5132 Current Topics in Health Facilities Planning and Design ARCH 5133 Current Topics in Healthy Communities and Design ARCH 5134 Current Topics in Resilience and Design ARCH 5135 Current Topics in Energy and Performance ARCH 5136 Current Topics in Fabrication and Making ARCH 5137 Current Topics in Visualization ARCH 5138 Current Topics in Materials and Design College of Public Health Courses Select three of the following: 2 9 HIM 5101 Fundamentals of Health Informatics HIM 5111 Technology for Healthcare Financial Management HIM 5128 Health Data: Standards and Interoperability HPM 5014 Leadership and Management in Non-Profit Organizations HPM 5122 Healthcare Quality and Safety Total Credit Hours 30 1 Multiple sections with different speakers are offered throughout the year. Course numbers may be taken more than once. 2 Courses are selected in consultation with an advisor. Culminating Event: Successful completion of coursework earns the student the M.S. degree in Facilities Planning. Contacts Program Web Address: https://tyler.temple.edu/programs/architecture Department Information: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 tyleradmissions@temple.edu 215-777-9090 Mailing Address for Official Transcripts: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 Submission Address for Portfolio: https://temple.slideroom.com/ Submission Address for All Other Application Materials: https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/ Department Contacts: Architecture Graduate Curricular Head: Pablo Meninato 205 Architecture Building pablo.meninato@temple.edu 610-659-9428 Department Chairperson: Sasha W. Eisenman 201 Dixon Hall eisenman@temple.edu 267-468-8168 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel