Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / School of Pharmacy Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy Global Clinical and Pharmacovigilance Regulations, M.S. Pharmaceutical Regulatory Sciences, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, Ph.D. Pharmacy, Pharm.D. Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, M.S. Graduate Certificate: Advanced Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing and Regulatory Affairs Graduate Certificate: Food Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Labeling, Advertising and Promotions Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Manufacturing: Process Development and Analysis Graduate Certificate: Sterile Process Manufacturing Graduate Certificate: Validation Sciences School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty School of Pharmacy About Programs Graduate Faculty Located on Temple University's bustling Health Sciences Center campus, the School of Pharmacy strives to bridge the gaps between drug discovery, preclinical basic research, and translation medicine. We are positioned to continue to provide leadership in our educational mission, while also pursuing innovative research. In conjunction with both of these efforts, we train future researchers in pharmaceutical sciences, drug discovery and development, and basic preclinical and translational research. In recent years, the School of Pharmacy has enjoyed tremendous growth in our research enterprise. We have established several centers of excellence for scientific study across a wide range of disciplines. The Temple University Drug Discovery Initiative, launched in 2010, has resulted in a substantial expansion of our research facilities and an increase in the number of talented and accomplished researchers joining our faculty and staff. Efforts by the faculty and research staff of the School of Pharmacy are focused on multidisciplinary approaches to complex scientific problems associated with a number of important disease states. Funding for our research has been generously provided by several foundations, federal and state-funded grants, contract research programs, and Temple University research awards. Members of our faculty have been recognized by outside scientific organizations with numerous honors, awards, and invited lectureships. The School of Pharmacy offers students the ideal combination of a high-quality education, dedicated faculty, active research programs, and a supportive atmosphere enlivened by diversity and community service. Programs Degree Programs and Select Certificates Global Clinical and Pharmacovigilance Regulations, M.S. Pharmaceutical Regulatory Sciences, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, Ph.D. Pharmacy, Pharm.D. Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, M.S. Graduate Certificate: Advanced Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing and Regulatory Affairs Graduate Certificate: Food Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Labeling, Advertising and Promotions Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Manufacturing: Process Development and Analysis Graduate Certificate: Sterile Process Manufacturing Graduate Certificate: Validation Sciences Certificates Basic Pharmaceutical Development Biosimilars and Generic Drugs Clinical Trial Management Drug Development Global Pharmacovigilance/Benefit-Risk Management Medical Device Pharmaceutics Post-Master's Certificates Biosimilars and Generic Drugs Clinical Trial Management Global Pharmacovigilance/Benefit-Risk Management Medical Device Graduate Faculty Magid Abou-Gharbia, Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania. Carlos Barrero, Assistant Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; M.D., Universidad de Caldas. Benjamin E. Blass, Assistant Professor (Research), Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., University of Rochester. Michael R. Borenstein, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., Temple University. Daniel J. Canney, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., Temple University. Wayne E. Childers, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., University of Georgia. A. Reza Fassihi, Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., Brighton University. Marc A. Ilies, Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., University of Bucharest. Kenneth R. Korzekwa, Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., University of Washington. David B. Lebo, Professor (Teaching/Instructional), Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D. Salim Merali, Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., City University of New York. Swati V. Nagar, Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., University of Minnesota. Jayanth Panyam, Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., University of Nebraska Medical Center. Oscar Perez-Leal, Assistant Professor (Research), Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; M.D., Universidad del Norte. Tina Tran, Assistant Professor, Department of Pharmacy Practice, School of Pharmacy; Pharm.D., University of California San Francisco. Ellen A. Walker, Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., University of Michigan. Ho-Lun Wong, Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy; Ph.D., University of Toronto. Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel