Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / Tyler School of Art and Architecture / Graphic and Interactive Design, M.F.A. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Architecture, M.Arch. Architecture, M.S. Art Education, M.Ed. Art History, M.A. Art History, Ph.D. Ceramics, M.F.A. City and Regional Planning, M.S. Facilities Planning, M.S. Fibers and Materials Studies, M.F.A. Glass, M.F.A. Graphic and Interactive Design, M.F.A. Landscape Architecture, M.L.Arch. Metals/Jewelry/CAD-CAM, M.F.A. Painting, M.F.A. Photography, M.F.A. Printmaking, M.F.A. Sculpture, M.F.A. Graduate Certificate: Community Arts Practices Graduate Certificate: Health Facilities Planning Graduate Certificate: Sustainable Community Planning Graduate Certificate: Teaching Art Education Graduate Certificate: Transportation Planning Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Graphic and Interactive Design, M.F.A. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts TYLER SCHOOL OF ART AND ARCHITECTURE About the Program The Graphic and Interactive Design (GAID) program at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture is a two-year, 60-credit program. It offers intensive, research-driven immersion in the practice of design, with mentorship from passionate, award-winning faculty members who push students to hone their visual voices and use their talents to change the world. GAID M.F.A. students are a close-knit cohort of thinkers and makers who drive original concepts through interdisciplinary collaboration in Tyler’s state-of-the-art facilities with the specialists, technology, and resources of Temple, a leading research university. Tyler students have unique opportunities to apply their socially conscious designs across Philadelphia. This is a city that’s a living laboratory for design-driven solutions with a booming design community that hosts one of the largest national chapters of the American Institute of Graphic Arts (AIGA) and offers easy access to other major design hubs, like New York and Washington, D.C. Tyler GAID M.F.A. graduates find jobs in top studios; start their own advertising agencies; work in the film, television, and music industries; teach in leading colleges and universities; and improve society with the understanding that good design has the power to make a real difference. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 4 years Campus Location: Main Full-Time/Part-Time Status: Full-time status is required. Interdisciplinary Study: Through Art History classes, electives, and seminars, students are engaged in emerging topics in the field and the broader art world. Accreditation: This degree program is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD). Areas of Specialization: The design faculty at Tyler is made up of practicing graphic and interactive designers with established reputations in the field. It is the goal of the design faculty to challenge students to achieve the highest level of excellence in their work. Job Prospects: Graduates from the M.F.A. program have been extremely successful in the field. They work for print and web design companies, advertising agencies, publishing companies, and design departments of major corporations. They also work in film and television, music packaging and promotion, product design and packaging, and as freelance illustrators. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: M.F.A. courses are restricted to matriculated students. Financing Opportunities: In addition to federal student aid, teaching assistantships and fellowships are available on a competitive basis to support Tyler M.F.A. students. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: January 6 Applications are evaluated together after the deadline date. APPLY ONLINE to this graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 3 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members, art directors, and/or designers familiar with the applicant's academic and artistic competence. The letters should be submitted with the application at https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/, along with the statement of goals and resume. Coursework Required for Admission Consideration: 40 undergraduate studio credits and 12 art history credits are required. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: A baccalaureate degree and a portfolio specific to Graphic and Interactive Design are required. Official transcripts from all universities/colleges attended, whether or not a degree was awarded, must be sent to the Tyler School of Art and Architecture, Graduate Admissions Office, 2001 N. 13th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016. Statement of Goals: Approximately 500 to 1,000 words include your interest in Tyler's program, your research goals, your future career goals, and your academic and artistic achievements. Standardized Test Scores: Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 PTE Academic: 53 Portfolio: As a Master of Fine Arts applicant, you must submit a portfolio that consists of 20 images representative of the immediate direction of your work. Portfolios are to be uploaded at https://temple.slideroom.com, as instructed at the website. SlideRoom requires an additional fee for this service. Original work, slides, CD-ROMs, catalogs, photographs, books, and/or binders are not acceptable substitutes for the SlideRoom portfolio and will not be reviewed or returned. Resume: Current resume required. Transfer Credit: Upon approval of the Department Coordinator, the student's advisor, and the Vice Dean, up to 9 credits of graduate work completed at Temple University within a five-year period may be transferred into the program. Up to 6 credits of graduate coursework taken at other accredited institutions within the prior five years before matriculation may be considered for transfer into the program after the student has enrolled. No decisions are made until students have successfully completed 15 matriculated credits at Tyler. The maximum number of credits a student may transfer is 9. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required to Earn the Degree: 60 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Project and Seminar Courses ART 8001 Graduate Professional Practices 3 GAD 8001/8002 Visual Design Graduate Seminar (4 terms) 1 12 GAD 8083 Graphic Design Graduate Projects (3 terms) 9 GAD 8095/8096 Visual Design Thesis (4 terms) 1 12 Art History Courses 2 12 Studio Electives 3 12 Total Credit Hours 60 1 Courses are sequenced to be taken in the Fall and Spring terms. The sequence is repeated a second year for a total of four courses taken over four terms. 2 Of the four required courses, two must be Art History Seminars chosen from a range of graduate ARTH offerings (5000 to 5800 or 8000 to 9980). 3 Course descriptions can be viewed on the Class Schedule. Note that enrolling in any course under 5000 for graduate credit requires prior approval from the studio area head. Culminating Events: Thesis Exhibition with Slide Show: An approved thesis exhibition, written statement, and slide portfolio are required at the final review in order to meet M.F.A. requirements. Approval of the student's graduate committee is required. Contacts Program Web Address: https://tyler.temple.edu/programs/graphic-interactive-design Department Information: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 tyleradmissions@temple.edu 215-777-9090 Mailing Address for Official Transcripts: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 Submission Address for Portfolio: https://temple.slideroom.com/ Submission Address for All Other Application Materials: https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/ Department Contacts: M.F.A. Program Director: Kelly Holohan kholohan@temple.edu 215-777-9733 Department Chair: Dermot Mac Cormack dermot@temple.edu 610-653-8227 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel