Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / School of Pharmacy / Graduate Certificate: Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing and Regulatory Affairs Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy Global Clinical and Pharmacovigilance Regulations, M.S. Pharmaceutical Regulatory Sciences, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, Ph.D. Pharmacy, Pharm.D. Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, M.S. Graduate Certificate: Advanced Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing and Regulatory Affairs Graduate Certificate: Food Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Labeling, Advertising and Promotions Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Manufacturing: Process Development and Analysis Graduate Certificate: Sterile Process Manufacturing Graduate Certificate: Validation Sciences School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Graduate Certificate: Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing and Regulatory Affairs About Admission Program Requirements Contacts SCHOOL OF PHARMACY About the Certificate The graduate and post-master's certificate in Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing and Regulatory Affairs is intended to enable Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance (RAQA) students to receive formal recognition for studying the highly specialized, rapidly growing field of pharmaceutical biotechnology, which includes the manufacturing techniques and applicable regulations used in the development and production of biotechnology products. The first biopharmaceutical product, namely, recombinant human insulin, was approved in 1982. Since then, products derived through biotechnology have provided advances in medicine that include therapeutic monoclonal antibodies, cancer vaccines, cytokines, antisense technology, interference RNA, and growth factors. The regulatory framework required for the approval of biotechnology-derived products (or biologics) is lengthy, rigorous, and highly complicated. This certificate delves into the complex regulations governing the development, manufacturing, and distribution of such products. Through completion of the certificate, whether post-baccalaureate or post-master's, students understand the following: the pharmaceutical science behind the discovery of biotechnology products, including biologics, biosimilars, and biopharmaceuticals; the requirements for sourcing and testing materials used in the production of biotechnology products; the technologies and unique considerations associated with the manufacturing and distribution of biotechnology products; the applicable regulations involved with biotechnology products; and the processes used to sterilize biotechnology products, including regulatory requirements for thermal, gaseous, radiation, filtration, and aseptic processing. Time Limit for Certificate Completion: 3 years Campus Location: Fort Washington Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The certificate may be completed on a part-time basis. NOTE: International students may not be eligible to apply for a student visa based on admission to the certificate program. Please contact the School of Pharmacy's program coordinator for more information. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: Non-matriculated students may take up to 9 credits of coursework before applying to the certificate program. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall and Spring admissions are on a rolling basis. Interested students should contact the School of Pharmacy for permission to enroll in coursework. Master's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: Applicants completing the certificate program to earn a post-master's certificate must hold a master's degree in a Pharmacy-related field. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: Applicants completing the certificate program to earn a post-baccalaureate certificate must hold a B.S. degree in Biochemistry, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, or a health-related discipline. Certificate Requirements Number of Credits Required to Complete the Certificate: 15 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses QARA 5471 Biotechnology: Bioprocess Basics 3 QARA 5475 Pharmaceutical Biotechnology 3 QARA 5515 Biologics/Biosimilars: A Regulatory Overview 3 QARA 5577 Global CMC Regulatory Compliance for Biopharmaceuticals and Other Biologics 3 Elective 3 Select one from the following: QARA 5492 Production of Sterile Parenterals QARA 5493 Sterilization Processes QARA 5501 Development of Sterile Products QARA 5512 Microbiological Concepts in Pharmaceutical Manufacturing QARA 5572 Vaccines: Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Issues Total Credit Hours 15 GPA Required to be Awarded the Certificate: 3.0 minimum Contacts Certificate Program Web Address: https://www.temple.edu/pharmacy_qara/certificates.htm Department Information: Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Program 425 Commerce Drive, Suite 175 Fort Washington, PA 19034-2728 qara@temple.edu 267-468-8560 Mailing Address for Application Materials: Temple University Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Program 425 Commerce Drive, Suite 175 Fort Washington, PA 19034-2728 Department Contacts: Admissions: Wendy Lebing, MALD, M.S. Program Coordinator qara@temple.edu 267-468-8560 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel