Skip to Content Apply Support TU Login People Finder Maps Social Media Contact ﻿ About TU Admission Academics Campus Life Research Athletics Academics Kendall College of Arts & Sciences Collins College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Continuing Education Departments & Schools Offices & Services Admission and Financial Aid Alexander Health Center Business Office Collins Fitness Center Financial Aid McFarlin Library Office of the Registrar Offices Explore A-Z Index Arts @ TU Courses Degrees Employment Faculty Directory Maps Virtual Tour Resources Academic Calendar Campus Security Contact Events Calendar Information Technology TU Portal Web Site Issue Report Connect With TU ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ Social Media Directory University of Tulsa May 31, 2022 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Select a Bulletin 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Graduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Law Bulletin 2020-2021 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] Global Search Bulletin Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Academic Units Other Content Entire Bulletin Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Bulletin Home All Programs All Courses The Henry Kendall College of Arts and Sciences The Collins College of Business The College of Engineering and Natural Sciences The Oxley College of Health Sciences The College of Law Undergraduate Interdisciplinary and Pre-professional Programs Academic Calendar Accreditation and Assessment Admission Undergraduate Education at The University of Tulsa Academic Policies Tuition and Fees Student Services Student Rights, Freedoms and Responsibilities Resident Faculty My Bulletin HELP 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin The Collins College of Business Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Kathy Taylor, Interim Dean Vision and Mission Accreditation Undergraduate Academic Programs Collegiate Academic Policies Academic Units and Programs The Collins College of Business educates skilled and inspired business professionals. Our emphasis on practical application and professional depth has helped our graduates become leaders in their professions, organizations, and communities. Today, as business evolves under the forces of globalization and technology, we are keeping pace with a variety of degree programs that prepare students for success. We emphasize academic rigor, practical problem-solving, hands-on experience, and teamwork. We have tailored degree programs to support full-time and part-time enrollment while maintaining the highest accreditation levels. Vision and Mission Our Vision: To be an internationally respected business college known for excellence in education and research. Our Mission: Through creating and disseminating knowledge, we educate, mentor, and prepare students for successful careers as professionals and leaders. Accreditation The Collins College of Business is accredited at both the graduate and undergraduate levels by AACSB International–The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. AACSB International accreditation represents the highest standard of achievement for business schools worldwide. Institutions that earn accreditation confirm their commitment to quality and continuous improvement through a rigorous and comprehensive peer review. The TU undergraduate and graduate energy management programs are accredited by the American Association of Professional Landmen (AAPL). Undergraduate Academic Programs The Collins College of Business offers one undergraduate degree, the Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (B.S.B.A.) . Program Objectives Students who complete the B.S.B.A. program will be: effective and professional communicators; knowledgeable of ethical, global, and social environmental factors and how they relate to business decisions; and knowledgeable of the functional areas of business. More information on learning goals and objectives for the B.S.B.A. program may be found on the B.S.B.A. Learning Goals and Objectives page. Experiential Learning Student internships are jointly planned and administered by faculty of the Collins College of Business and participating public or private organizations. Internships provide the opportunity to reinforce knowledge of principles and concepts introduced in the classroom through application in actual professional situations. Internships include working arrangements with Tulsa-area organizations as well as opportunities nationally and in international locations. For the best internship opportunities and information concerning career development, students should consult their faculty advisor and Cane Careers. Human, Cultural and Gender Diversity To support and emphasize the commitment of the Collins College of Business and The University of Tulsa to human, cultural and gender diversity as outlined in the university’s mission, the Collins College of Business requires students completing a B.S.B.A. degree to take one block or elective course that addresses human/cultural/gender diversity. Courses that are approved to meet this requirement may be found here . Collegiate Academic Policies Students enrolled in the Collins College of Business must follow all University academic policies as well as College-specific academic policies . School of Accounting and Computer Information Systems Go to information for this department. Programs • Accounting Minor • Accounting, B.S.B.A. • Computer Information Systems Minor • Computer Information Systems, B.S.B.A. Department of Economics Go to information for this department. Programs • Economics, B.S.B.A. School of Energy Economics, Policy and Commerce Go to information for this department. Programs • Energy Business Minor • Energy Management, B.S.B.A. School of Finance and Operations Management Go to information for this department. Programs • Finance Minor • Finance, B.S.B.A. Department of Management, Marketing and International Business Go to information for this department. Programs • Innovation, Change and Entrepreneurship Minor • International Business and Language, B.S.B.A. • International Business Minor • Management, B.S.B.A. • Marketing Minor • Marketing, B.S.B.A. • Sport Management Minor Business Interdisciplinary Programs Go to information for this department. Programs • Business Administration Minor • Business Analytics Minor • Business and Law Accelerated Program Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All bulletins © 2022 University of Tulsa. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).