Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Temple Bulletins 2021-2022 The Bulletin provides enrolled students with the information they need regarding their chosen academic path and helps prospective students make important enrollment decisions. The information in this bulletin is subject to change by Temple University at any time. Neither this bulletin nor any parts of it may be relied upon as a contract between Temple University and any student, applicant, or other user of this site. All prospective and current students should consult with appropriate University Offices to verify current information and the status of policies, programs, descriptions of curricula, or other information in this bulletin. Undergraduate Bulletin The current Undergraduate Bulletin is for students who began school in Fall 2021. For students who began prior to Fall 2021, see the Archives. 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Archived Undergraduate Bulletins Graduate & Professional Bulletin The current Graduate and Professional Bulletin is for students who began school in Fall 2021. For students who began prior to Fall 2021, see the Archives. 2021-2022 Graduate & Professional Bulletin Archived Graduate & Professional Bulletins Other Resources Admissions Courses DARS Fly In 4 Class Schedule Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel