Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management / Graduate Certificate: Destination Management Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Hospitality Management, M.S. Sport Business, M.S. Sport Business Executive Program, M.S. Travel and Tourism, M.S. Graduate Certificate: Destination Management Graduate Certificate: Event Management Graduate Certificate: Global Tourism Graduate Certificate: Service Excellence Graduate Certificate: Tourism Analytics Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Graduate Certificate: Destination Management About Admission Program Requirements Contacts SCHOOL OF SPORT, TOURISM AND HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT About the Certificate The graduate certificate in Destination Management is designed for those who are looking to coordinate the powerful experiences afforded by a destination that individuals cannot get anywhere else. Campus Location: Online Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The graduate certificate can be completed on a part-time basis. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: All applicants must present credentials that are the equivalent of the appropriate baccalaureate degree at Temple University. Apply for this certificate program at https://sthm.temple.edu/certificates/destination-management-graduate-certificate/. Certificate Requirements Number of Credits Required to Complete the Certificate: 9 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Select three from the following courses: 9 THM 5323 Sustainable Tourism Development THM 5328 Tourism Economics and Policy THM 5342 Destination Management and Marketing THM 5344 Crisis, Risk and Disaster Management Total Credit Hours 9 GPA Required to be Awarded the Certificate: 3.0 minimum Contacts Certificate Program Web Address: https://sthm.temple.edu/certificates/destination-management-graduate-certificate/ Department Information: School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management 111 Speakman Hall 1810 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6083 sthm@temple.edu 215-204-8701 Submission Address for Application Materials: https://foxgraduate.force.com/ERx_Forms__Portal_Login?type=sthm Department Contacts: Assistant Director of Graduate Enrollment: Michelle Siporin michelle.siporin@temple.edu 215-204-8701 Manager of Student Services: James Alton, M.S.Ed. james.alton@temple.edu 215-204-7140 Academic Director: Ben Altschuler, Ph.D. benjamin.altschuler@temple.edu 215-204-8924 Chairperson: Xiang Li, Ph.D. Department of Tourism and Hospitality Management robertli@temple.edu Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel