Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home Columbia College Toggle Navigation About the College Mission History News and Updates Strategic Plan Annual Report Events Columbia to the Core Dean of the College Visit Columbia College Staff & Administration The Core Curriculum Contemporary Civilization Literature Humanities Art Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Frontiers of Science Global Core Requirement Center for the Core Curriculum Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Majors, Concentrations, and Programs of Study Departments, Institutes and Centers Academic Advising Resources Fellowships Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Academic Honors, Awards, and Prizes Policies and Procedures Academic Integrity Academic Planning and Administration Admissions Financial Aid Learn About Columbia Visit Columbia Apply to Columbia Campus Life Undergraduate Student Life Student Resources Supporting the College More Faculty Parents Alumni Search Bulletin 2021-22 Bulletin Home / Columbia College Bulletin / Departments, Programs, and Courses / Jazz Studies Print Options Toggle Navigation Toggle Navigation The Administration and Faculty of Columbia College Academic Requirements Core Curriculum Departments, Programs, and Courses Search the Course Listings African American and African Diaspora Studies American Studies Ancient Studies Anthropology Archaeology Architecture Art History and Archaeology Astronomy Biological Sciences Business Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Colloquia, Interdepartmental Seminars, and Professional School Offerings Comparative Literature and Society Computer Science Creative Writing Dance Drama and Theatre Arts Earth and Environmental Sciences East Asian Languages and Cultures Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Economics Education English and Comparative Literature Ethnicity and Race Studies Film and Media Studies French and Romance Philology Germanic Languages History History and Philosophy of Science Human Rights Italian Jazz Studies Jewish Studies Language Resource Center Latin American and Caribbean Studies Latin American and Iberian Cultures Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies Music Philosophy Physical Education and Intercollegiate Athletics Physics Political Science Psychology Public Health Regional Studies Religion Slavic Languages Sociology Statistics Sustainable Development Urban Studies Visual Arts Women's and Gender Studies Academic Calendar Registration Academic Regulations Study Abroad Special Programs Academic Honors, Prizes, and Fellowships Standards and Discipline Columbia University Policies Admission Fees, Expenses, and Financial Aid Jazz Studies Overview Faculty Requirements Courses The Center for Jazz Studies: Prentis Hall, 4th floor (632 W. 125th Street); 212-851-9270 http://www.columbia.edu/cu/cjs Jazz at Columbia: https://mpp.music.columbia.edu/louis-armstrong-jazz-performance-program Director: Prof. Robert G. O'Meally, 611 Philosophy; 212-851-9270; rgo1@columbia.edu Director of Jazz Performance: Prof. Ole Mathisen, 621 Dodge Hall; 212-854-3825; om2141@columbia.edu Program Administrator: Yulanda Mckenzie, 602 Philosophy; 212-851-9270; ym189@columbia.edu The special concentration in jazz studies is an interdisciplinary liberal arts course of study that uses jazz music—and the jazz culture from which the music emanated—as a prism through which to study jazz culture during what might be termed the long jazz century, the Sprawling 20's. The curriculum in this new field guides students in developing a firm grounding in the traditions and aesthetic motives of jazz music, viewed through the perspectives of music history and ethnomusicology as well as literary theory and cultural studies. The program also explores in depth the development of jazz-oriented art works in the music’s sister arts—literature, dance, painting, photography, and film. While a U.S. focus is highly appropriate, considering the many ways in which jazz is a definitive music of this nation, students also explore jazz’s geographical history beyond these shorelines, including complex, ongoing interactions with Africa, the Caribbean, Europe, and Asia. The special concentration in jazz studies is designed for music majors as well as for those majoring in other fields. The main difference between music majors and non-music majors is that while music majors take advanced courses in arranging, composition, and transcription, non-music majors are required to take an introduction to music fundamentals. While there are some fields where the fit with jazz studies is very obvious—music, American studies, African-American studies, English, comparative literature, and history—special concentrators can major in any field whatsoever. Is there a jazz or improvisatory philosophy? What might be its relation to studies of aesthetics or American pragmatism? And what are jazz’s implications for the student of law? How does one protect the intellectual property rights of an improvised jazz solo? What about business? What economic and political forces have shaped jazz? Who buys jazz? What is its audience? What is a jazz painting? A jazz novel? What is jazz poetry? What is jazz dance? What is a jazz film? What are the sources and meanings of art? What work does the music do for the whole community? Along with problems of musical history, form, and definition, our special courses explore jazz as a culture. Students not only study individual jazz artists but also explore the immeasurably variegated worlds through which such artists moved, and which they helped to shape. As cultural historians-in-training—focused on questions of nationality, race, sexuality, gender, economics, and politics—students explore the extraordinarily complicated terrains of the New Orleans of Bunk Johnson, for example, or the Baltimore of Billie Holiday (born in Philadelphia, reared in Baltimore). They explore such artists’ other geographical travels. What did their images, including mistaken conceptions of who they were, tell us about the cultures that mythologized them? How did these jazz musicians influence not only musicians but other artists of their era and milieu: the poets and novelists, painters and sculptors, photographers and filmmakers, dancers and choreographers who regularly heard them play and often shared with them a sense of common project? One thinks of Tito Puente, working with singers and dancers at the Palladium; Jackson Pollack dancing to the music as he spun drips of paints on canvasses placed on the studio floor; Langston Hughes writing detailed instructions to the musicians he hoped would accompany performance of his poetry; Romare Bearden’s beautifully turned stage and costume designs for Alvin Ailey and Dianne McIntyre, whose improvisatory jazz dance workshop was called Sound in Motion; the drummer Jo Jones in an interview naming as key influences a series of tap dancers he admired; Stanley Crouch, stirring in his high-powered essays in a room where jazz drums stand at the center, the old dream-kit inspiration; Ralph Ellison, who kept in touch with his beginnings as a musician in Oklahoma City through hour-long conversations with his childhood friend, the singer Jimmy Rushing; Toni Morrison reading her magical prose to improvisations by Max Roach and the dancer Bill T. Jones; and the pianist Jason Moran playing at the Studio Museum in Harlem, where he introduced his group as including Beauford Delany, whose paintings hung on the wall near the bandstand—vigorous all and recall across the art forms. Perhaps above all, the special concentration in jazz studies is designed to prepare students to be well-prepared and flexible improvisers in a universe of change and possibility. Interdepartmental Committee on Jazz Studies Ann Douglas (English and Comparative Literature) Brent Hayes Edwards (English and Comparative Literature) Kevin A. Fellezs (Music and African American and African Diaspora Studies) Aaron Fox (Music) Farah Jasmine Griffin (English and Comparative Literature) George Lewis (Music) Robert G. O’Meally (English and Comparative Literature) Christopher Washburne (Music) Adjunct Lecturers in Jazz Performance Paul Bollenbeck Christine Correa Krin Gabbard David Gibson Brad Jones Victor Lin Ole Mathisen Tony Moreno Ugonna Okegwa Adriano Santos Don Sickler Leo Traversa Ben Waltzer Guidelines for all Jazz Studies Special Concentrators Students interested in a special concentration in jazz studies should speak with the director no later than the fall semester of the sophomore year. In addition to the requirements of the special concentration, students must complete a major or a full concentration. Students interested in declaring a special concentration in jazz studies will be assigned an adviser. The program of study is to be planned with the adviser as early as possible. In addition to the requirements of the special concentration, students must complete a major. Students interested in declaring a special concentration in jazz studies will be assigned an adviser. The program of study is to be planned with the adviser as early as possible. Special Concentration in Jazz Studies Please read Guidelines for all Jazz Studies Special Concentrators above. The special concentration in jazz studies requires a total of seven courses (22 points minimum), distributed as follows: Requirements for Non-Music Majors/Concentrators Course List Code Title Points ENGL GU4612 JAZZ AND AMERICAN CULTURE MUSI UN2016 Jazz MUSI UN1002 FUNDAMENTALS OF MUSIC Three interdisciplinary courses as approved by the director A senior independent study project Requirements for Music Majors/Concentrators Course List Code Title Points ENGL GU4612 JAZZ AND AMERICAN CULTURE MUSI UN2016 Jazz MUSI GU4505 Jazz Arranging and Composition MUSI GU4500 Jazz Transcription and Analysis MPP UN1541 Columbia University Jazz Ensemble Private music lessons (strongly recommended but not required) Three interdisciplinary courses as approved by the director A senior independent study project JAZZ GU4900 Jazz and the Literary Imagination. 3 points. (Lecture). This course will focus on the ways that jazz has been a source of inspiration for a variety of twentieth-century literatures, from the blues poetry of the Harlem Renaissance to contemporary fiction. We will consider in detail the ways that writers have discovered or intuited formal models and political implications in black music. Rather than simply assume that influence only travels in one direction, we will also take up some literary efforts (including autobiography, poetry, historiography, and criticism) by musicians themselves. What are the links between musical form and literary innovation? How can terms of musical analysis (improvisation, rhythm, syncopation, harmony) be applied to the medium of writing? How does music suggest modes of social interaction or political potential to be articulated in language? How does one evaluate the performance of a poem (in an oral recitation or musical setting) in relation to its text? Materials may include writings and recordings by Jacques Attali, James Weldon Johnson, Langston Hughes, Louis Armstrong, Zora Neale Hurston, Sterling Brown, Kurt Schwitters, Ralph Ellison, Amiri Baraka, Ella Fitzgerald, William Melvin Kelley, Edward Kamau Brathwaite, Gayl Jones, Michael Ondaatje, Ed Pavlic, Joseph Jarman, Nathaniel Mackey, and Harryette Mullen, among others. Requirements: weekly response papers, a 5-7 pg. midterm paper and a 9-12 pg. final paper. JAZZ GU4920 Jazz and Cinema. 3 points. Because the beginnings of jazz and film both date to the last years of the nineteenth century, the two art forms essentially grew up together. The history of both is inseparable from the technological revolutions of the twentieth century, and at least in the United States, from histories of racial representation. We will explore the racial issues raised by American films along with how filmmakers represent gender, American humor, discourses of art and the popular, and the conventions of narrative. We will pay special attention to how all of this changes dramatically throughout the twentieth and early twenty-first centuries. After establishing what is most American about jazz and cinema, we will move on to documentary films as well as to films from Europe where many of the dominant American myths about jazz are both perpetuated and transformed. The goal of the course is to understand jazz as a music as well as a cultural practice that has been in constant flux during the last 120 years. The representation of the music and its practitioners in cinema is crucial to an understanding of the music at each of its many cultural moments. Of Related Interest Course List Code Title Points African American Studies AFAS UN3030 African-American Music AFAS UN3930 Topics in the Black Experience Dance (Barnard) DNCE BC1247 - DNCE BC1248 Jazz, I: Beginning and Jazz, I: Beginning DNCE BC1445 - DNCE BC1446 TAP I and Tap, I: Beginning DNCE BC2248 - DNCE BC2249 Jazz, II: Intermediate and Jazz, II: Intermediate DNCE BC2447 - DNCE BC2447 Tap, II: Intermediate and Tap, II: Intermediate English and Comparative Literature ENGL GU4621 Harlem Renaissance ENGL GU4612 JAZZ AND AMERICAN CULTURE Music MPP UN1541 Columbia University Jazz Ensemble MUSI UN2016 Jazz MUSI UN2020 Salsa, Soca, and Reggae: Popular Musics of the Caribbean MUSI GU4500 Jazz Transcription and Analysis MUSI GU4505 Jazz Arranging and Composition MUSI GU4507 The New Thing: Jazz 1955-1980 MUSI GU4540 Histories of Post-1960's Jazz Columbia College Columbia University in the City of New York 208 Hamilton Hall, Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 ColumbiaCollege@columbia.edu Phone: 212-854-2441 College Offices Alumni Affairs and Development Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Center for the Core Curriculum Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Double Discovery Center Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights Financial Aid & Educational Financing Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Student Life Follow Us Columbia College on Facebook Columbia College on Twitter Columbia College on Instagram © 2021-22 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page including tabs. Cancel