Javascript is currently not supported, or is disabled by this browser. Please enable Javascript for full functionality. Skip to Content Acalog ACMS™ Online Help Close Window This document contains help on the following topics: Selecting a Different Bulletin Searching the Bulletin Search Options Browsing the Bulletin Printing Pages of the Bulletin Using the Bulletin Feature Create a Bulletin Account Login and Logout of Bulletin Feature Edit Your Bulletin Profile For additional help, please contact bulletinhelp@utulsa.edu. 1. Selecting a Different Bulletin BACK TO TOP There may be more than one bulletin available from the University of Tulsa system e-catalog Gateway at a time. If there is more than one, you will see a dropdown box toward the top of the page with the name of the current bulletin. Clicking the dropdown box provides access to other available bulletins. Selecting an alternate bulletin will load it into the Gateway. If you do not see the dropdown box, then only a single bulletin is currently published. You may add information from any of the available bulletins to your own personal Bulletin. See below to learn more about Using the Bulletin Feature. 2. Searching the Bulletin BACK TO TOP The Bulletin Search (shown at the top of the navigation) allows quick retrieval of bulletin content that matches your interests. To use the Bulletin Search, simply enter a search keyword or phrase and press ENTER. The search will find any matching content in the bulletin including courses, programs, school/colleges, departments or other narrative content. 2.1. Search Options BACK TO TOP Search options are available by clicking on the Advanced Search link below the regular search form or by clicking the Modify Search Options link after performing a search. The search options offer more precise searching of the bulletin content. To limit your search to only specific types of bulletin content, check only the checkboxes for content categories you wish to include in your search. Check the "Whole Word/Phrase" check box to search for an exact match for a keyword or phrase. For instance, entering "bio" will only return hits in which the term "bio" stands alone; it will not return any instances of the term "biology". The same is true if you enter a phrase. Click "Show Prefix List" to display a list of all course prefixes available in the bulletin. You may enter a keyword phrase that includes a course prefix and code (like "ENG 101") to better locate a specific course. The closest available matches will be returned first. Click the Search button to perform the search. 3. Browsing the Bulletin BACK TO TOP Overview You may easily browse through the bulletins by using the different navigation links on the left side of the page. Each bulletin may have its own distinct set of navigation links. Some links may display pages about the bulletin or other related information. Other links may display listings of courses or programs within the bulletin. These navigation links may display other information that is broken down by various methods such as by school/colleges, by departments, or by program, or course types. Some pages may show "Go to Information..." links following a school/college or department which, when clicked, will display more information about that school/college or department. Course and program titles are almost always shown as links. Clicking on a course title will display course information below the course title about the course and a link to Add to Bulletin (course information may be shown in a pop up window if you have an older browser). Clicking on a program title will display all the related information for the program as well as the Add program to Bulletin link. Clicking on the Add to Bulletin link will add information to your Bulletin for later retrieval. See below to learn more about Using the Bulletin Feature. FlashPoint™ Links Some school/colleges, departments, programs, and courses may have FlashPoint Links associated with them that may be a text link or a click-able graphic. These FlashPoint Links are links to an additional digital resource. The digital resource may be another web page, a text document, audio, video, or many other types of media and may require a special browser plug-in. To view a FlashPoint Link, simply click on it. All FlashPoint Links will be displayed in a new pop up window. 3.1. Printing Pages of the Bulletin BACK TO TOP To print a page click the print link. The "Print Friendly" version will open up with just the content of the page in it (no navigation or header). If you click the print link on a "Print Friendly" page the browser will popup with the print dialog allowing you to print that page. Problems with Gateway Print Links If your browser does not support the print link you may need to use the operating system or web browser's built in print functions instead. 4. Using the Bulletin Feature BACK TO TOP You may add items to your own personal Bulletin as you browse through the online bulletins. The Bulletin feature will retain a list of courses, programs, pages, divisions and saved searches that you have found interesting and wish to save for future visits to the online University of Tulsa bulletins. To add items click the Add to Bulletin link or star icon next to the item in which you are interested. This will open a new popup window that displays all items currently in your Bulletin. You may remove items from your Bulletin by selecting the checkboxes next to them and clicking the Remove button. Note: Items suffixed with the text [From Previous Bulletin] are from older, outdated bulletins that are no longer available. You will need to search within newer bulletins to find alternative information to replace them. The Bulletin feature is based on an account system. You must sign up in order to permanently store items in the Bulletin feature. The Bulletin feature will store your favorite items using a combination of temporary and permanent storage in a database. This method requires that you register an account and login to permanently save information in the Bulletin. Items are still stored temporarily in the database until you login to your Bulletin. Once you login, any temporary information will be saved into your account for permanent storage. 4.1. Create a Bulletin Account BACK TO TOP To create a Bulletin account, simply choose My Bulletin from the left hand navigation and click on the create an account link. Now enter a valid e-mail address and a password. If you wish to have an admissions advisor contact you, select the contact checkbox. You may enter your name and a message to send along with your contact request. An advisor will contact you via e-mail. When done, click the Create Account button to create the account. Note: it is important to use a valid e-mail address in case you ever forget your password. The account will be created and you will be logged in automatically. Any items you had already added to your Bulletin will now be stored permanently in your account. 4.2. Login and Logout of the Bulletin Feature BACK TO TOP To login to your Bulletin account, simply choose My Bulletin from the left hand navigation, enter your e-mail address and password and click the Login button. If you have forgotten your password, just enter your e-mail address and click the Reset Password button. An email will be sent to the email address you used to sign up for your My Bulletin account with a link that will enable you to reset your password. To logout, simply view your Bulletin and click the Logout link at top right. 4.3. Edit Your Bulletin Profile BACK TO TOP To edit your Bulletin account information, login to your Bulletin account and click on the Edit Profile link at the top right of the Bulletin feature. You may change your account login by entering a new e-mail address and clicking the Send button. If you have requested contact you may update your name and the message to send along with your contact request. To change your password, click on the Change Password link. A pop up window will prompt you for a new password. Enter a new password and confirmation and click the Reset button. When you are finished, you may close the pop up window. Print this page. All bulletins © 2022 University of Tulsa. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).