Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / Tyler School of Art and Architecture / City and Regional Planning, M.S. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Architecture, M.Arch. Architecture, M.S. Art Education, M.Ed. Art History, M.A. Art History, Ph.D. Ceramics, M.F.A. City and Regional Planning, M.S. Facilities Planning, M.S. Fibers and Materials Studies, M.F.A. Glass, M.F.A. Graphic and Interactive Design, M.F.A. Landscape Architecture, M.L.Arch. Metals/Jewelry/CAD-CAM, M.F.A. Painting, M.F.A. Photography, M.F.A. Printmaking, M.F.A. Sculpture, M.F.A. Graduate Certificate: Community Arts Practices Graduate Certificate: Health Facilities Planning Graduate Certificate: Sustainable Community Planning Graduate Certificate: Teaching Art Education Graduate Certificate: Transportation Planning Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty City and Regional Planning, M.S. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts TYLER SCHOOL OF ART AND ARCHITECTURE About the Program The M.S. in City and Regional Planning is the terminal degree for the planning profession. The primary purpose of the program is to develop skilled practitioners for dynamic career opportunities in the government, non-profit, and private sectors. The program’s areas of strength are in sustainability, environmental planning, and community engagement. The program provides a broad-based understanding and awareness of the physical and economic aspects of planning, sensitivity to the social and environmental impact of planning decisions, and a knowledge of governmental structures as they apply to planning. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 5 years Campus Location: Main Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The degree program is designed for full-time study, allowing students to complete the program in two years. Students may elect, however, to complete the program on a part-time basis. Affiliation(s): The Department of Architecture and Environmental Design is a member of the American Planning Association (APA) and Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning (ACSP). Study Abroad: The department has a formal agreement with Beijing Forestry University, where study abroad is possible. Accreditation: The M.S. program in City and Regional Planning is accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board (PAB). The PAB accredits university programs in North America leading to bachelor’s and master’s degrees in planning. The accreditation process is based on standards approved by the PAB with input from the public and our sponsoring organizations: the American Planning Association (APA); the American Institute of Certified Planners (AICP), which is the professional planners’ institute within the American Planning Association; and the Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning (ACSP). The M.S. in City and Regional Planning is currently accredited through December 2021. Areas of Specialization: Two optional concentrations are available to students in the M.S. in City and Regional Planning degree program: Sustainable Community Planning Transportation Planning Graduate certificates in Sustainable Community Planning and Transportation Planning are available to non-matriculated students and students in other Temple University graduate programs, with the approval of their graduate advisor. For more information, see the certificate descriptions on the Department of Architecture and Environmental Design website. Job Prospects: A graduate degree in city planning is recognized by the profession as the terminal degree. The majority of students graduating from the program find employment in the greater Philadelphia region, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and beyond. The majority of the program’s graduates have found employment in planning or a related field within one year of graduation. Private, public, and non-profit employment opportunities in planning are strong for graduate degree holders based on current need and projected growth over the next decade. Licensure/Certification: The American Institute of Certified Planners (AICP) provides nationwide, independent verification of planners’ qualifications. While not required to practice, AICP certification ensures academic qualifications, work experience, mastery of essential skills, and commitment to a professional code of ethics. As a Planning Accreditation Board (PAB) accredited program, Temple University’s Master of Science in City and Regional Planning provides the fastest path to AICP certification, with two years' professional planning experience required. To be eligible for the certification exam, graduates must also be a current member of the American Planning Association (APA) and be engaged in professional planning, either currently or in the past, as defined by AICP. For more information, visit https://www.planning.org/certification/eligible/. New Jersey offers its own license for professional planners. This is in addition to, not instead of, the national AICP. Graduates who plan on working in New Jersey can opt to sit for the Professional Planner (PP) exam. Details can be found at https://njplanning.org/professional-development/exam-prep/pp-pit/. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: Non-matriculated students are permitted to take a maximum of 9 graduate credits at Temple University prior to applying to the program. Please contact the Department of Architecture and Environmental Design for details. Financing Opportunities: The Department of Architecture and Environmental Design has a limited number of scholarships for graduate students. Students should also check the Tyler School of Art and Architecture and Student Financial Services websites for financial aid opportunities. Students should complete a FAFSA application to determine eligibility for student financial aid, work-study employment within the department, or other on-campus jobs. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: January 6 Spring: November 1 Applications are reviewed as they are received up through the priority deadline. Applications received after these dates may be considered for admission. See the Tyler School of Art and Architecture website for the most up-to-date application information. APPLY ONLINE to this graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 3 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members, planning professionals, and others in a position to evaluate the applicant's past work and/or ability to do graduate work. The letters should be submitted with the application at https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/, along with the statement of goals. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: All applicants must hold a baccalaureate degree from an accredited college or university, but the bachelor's degree need not be in a related field of study. Official transcripts from all universities/colleges attended, whether or not a degree was awarded, must be sent to the Tyler School of Art and Architecture, Graduate Admissions Office, 2001 N. 13th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016. Statement of Goals: Approximately 500 to 1,000 words include your reason for pursuing a degree in City and Regional Planning; your interest in Temple's program in particular; and your future career goals. Standardized Test Scores: GRE/GMAT: Due to testing limitations related to the ongoing COVID-19 situation, the Tyler School of Art and Architecture is temporarily waiving submission of GRE scores for applicants to the M.S. in City and Regional Planning degree program for Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 admissions. Applicants may still voluntarily submit GRE test scores, but scores will only be used as a supplement to required application materials. All other admission requirements, including submission of scores for a standardized test of English, if applicable, still need to be met. In some circumstances, the Graduate Admissions Committee may request additional supplemental application materials or an interview as part of the admissions process. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 PTE Academic: 53 Resume: Current resume required. Transfer Credit: The City and Regional Planning Admissions Committee recommends the awarding of transfer credits on a case-by-case basis as applications are reviewed. The student may not receive transfer credit for coursework taken as part of any other awarded graduate degree. The maximum number of credits a student may transfer is 9. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required to Earn the Degree: 45 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses CTRP 5014 Planning Politics and Administration 3 CTRP 5413 Planning Communications 3 CTRP 5513 Planning Analysis 3 CTRP 5524 Spatial Analysis Techniques/Geographic Information Systems 1 3 CTRP 8013 Planning History and Theory 3 CTRP 8016 Planning Law 3 CTRP 8213 Environmental Planning 3 Electives 2 18 Capstone Course CTRP 9889 Planning Studio 6 Total Credit Hours 45 1 Students who have had significant training in geographic information systems may be allowed to substitute an elective for the required course CTRP 5524 with permission of the graduate advisor or chair of the Department of Architecture and Environmental Design. 2 CTRP or related courses are selected in consultation with a department advisor. Students may undertake one of two transcripted optional concentrations in fulfilling the coursework requirements for the M.S. degree: Sustainable Community Planning Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Concentration Courses CTRP 5256 Sustainable Community Design and Development 3 CTRP 8276 Regional Development 3 Electives Select two of the following: 1 6 CTRP 8155 Ecological Planning and Development CTRP 8156 Neighborhoods, Cities, and Regions CTRP 8255 Sustainability in Suburban Communities CTRP 8257 Environmental Policy CTRP 8266 Sustainable Business Practices CTRP 8355 Environmental Infrastructure Planning and Management CTRP 8476 Collaborative Planning CTRP 8755 Introduction to Emergency Management Planning Total Credit Hours 12 1 Students may substitute one relevant 3-credit CTRP graduate course selected in consultation with a department advisor or chair as an elective. Transportation Planning Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Concentration Course CTRP 8655 Transportation Planning 3 Electives Select three of the following: 1 9 CTRP 8276 Regional Development CTRP 8656 Integrated Transportation and Land-Use Planning: Context-Sensitive Design Solutions CTRP 8657 Non-motorized Transportation Planning CTRP 8666 Travel Demand Modeling Total Credit Hours 12 1 Students may substitute one relevant 3-credit graduate course selected in consultation with a department advisor or chair as an elective. Internship: A supervised 180-hour internship is required. The internship emphasizes the acquisition and application of practical skills in planning. Placements are made at public agencies, non-profit institutions, and private firms, with designated onsite and Planning and Community Development faculty supervisors. Internships may require interim reports and must culminate in a written report regarding the experience. Students have the option of registering for CTRP 9885 Internship in Planning for 3 elective credits. If the student has relevant professional experience, the internship requirement is waived and CTRP 9885 may not be taken for credit toward the degree. Culminating Events: Capstone Course: All students must complete CTRP 9889 Planning Studio (6 credits), which involves undertaking a planning project in cooperation with a local or regional client. Students synthesize the knowledge gained from previous courses in the development of an integrated approach that is appropriate to their project. Thesis Option: The master's thesis is substantial in length and follows a knowledge-enhancement model, based on planning theory, methodology, and history. Requirements are specified in the Graduate School’s Dissertation and Thesis Handbook, found at https://grad.temple.edu/resources/dissertation-thesis-handbook. Up to 6 elective credits may be earned for taking CTRP 9995 Thesis in Planning. The student's Master's Committee is responsible for evaluating the thesis and its defense. No thesis should go to defense unless it is ready for public scrutiny. The committee evaluates the student's ability to express in writing and orally her/his research question, methodological approach, primary findings, and implications. Committee members vote to pass or fail the thesis upon conclusion of the public defense. If the student must make revisions, those changes must be approved as arranged by the Master's Committee. Contacts Program Web Address: https://tyler.temple.edu/programs/planning-community-development Department Information: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 tyleradmissions@temple.edu 215-777-9090 Mailing Address for Official Transcripts: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 Submission Address for All Other Application Materials: https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/ Department Contacts: Graduate Admissions Office: Tyler School of Art and Architecture tyleradmissions@temple.edu 215-777-9090 Planning and Community Development Program Head: Jeffrey Doshna 213 Architecture Building doshna@temple.edu 215-204-1213 Department Chairperson: Sasha W. Eisenman 201 Dixon Hall eisenman@temple.edu 267-468-8168 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel