Current Past Topics Contact Advertise Subscribe Current Past Topics Contact Advertise Subscribe Select Page The Obsidian Mirror: Mexican Archaeology and Literature in Dialogue Narratives by Mexican authors focus on combining and confronting the different eras of our history, while poetry captures singular moments that are both archaic and recent. By Juan Villoro Autumn/Winter 2021 Featured ‘My Dreams Will Never be the Same’ Neris Gonzalez’s love of her community and faith in a just God enable her to keep pushing for the Salvadoran generals responsible for her imprisonment and torture to be held accountable. By Julia Lieblich Oases of Friendship Hannah Arendt conceived of thinking as an expression of “the visiting imagination,” in which one puts oneself in the place of another and sees the world from a displaced standpoint. By Michael D. Jackson God and Caesar: A Never-ending Competition The preconceived idea that modernity is based on the separation of religion and politics prevents us from observing their inherent mutual influence. By Jocelyne Cesari Dialogue The Dharma of Racial Justice Mindfulness can help us lean into our subjective, embodied experiences of race, racism, and white supremacy so we might begin to disrupt these harmful legacies. By Rhonda V. Magee Carrying Guns to Synagogue? Increasing anti-Semitic attacks against synagogues and Jewish centers have led some rabbis to advocate for stronger security measures. By Robert Israel Paying Homage to the Wounds After serving in Afghanistan, a veteran struggles with trauma and wrestles with his faith, but volunteering at the Kalighat Home for the Dying connects him to a deeper truth. By Marcus Seymour Listening to Silence Reflecting on John Cage’s famous composition and how silence can be a form of care. By Jacqueline Houton In Review Books Religion, Economics, and the Stories We Tell Benjamin Friedman’s Religion and the Rise of Capitalism challenges scholarly truisms by showing how a set of Protestant theological claims influenced economic thought and practice. By Devin Singh Books Calvin, Capitalism, and Predestination Benjamin Friedman’s Religion and the Rise of Capitalism prompts us to consider the conditions under which the idea of divine chosenness might appear in our social landscapes. By Michelle Sanchez Syllabus Selected Works of Twentieth-Century Jewish Theology A reading list from Jon D. Levenson’s course. Film Without Why: Religion without Purpose in Soul Pixar’s Soul asks fundamental questions about existence and challenges the idea that life is reducible to purpose, religious or otherwise. By Matthew C. Kruger Books Encounters with the Possible A Q&A with Charles Hallisey on his new book, Poems of the First Buddhist Women: A Translation of the Therigatha. By Sarah Fleming Poetry Two Poems Sharing Heat Cornerstones By Jonathan Rowe Two Poems Reformation Sonnet for Andrea By Daisy Bassen Perspective Trauma, Friendship, and Awakened Possibilities This issue is not for the faint of heart, and yet I find the pieces here to be uplifting because they provide us with models and methods for endurance, reparation, and the awakening of new possibilities. By Wendy McDowell Repose ‘It Felt Like a Community Was On My Wall’ A Q&A with Artist Ellen Elmes, about painting portraits of the 23 victims of the 2019 El Paso shooting. By Wendy McDowell SUBSCRIBE Harvard Divinity Bulletin is eclectic, challenging, and vital. Subscribe today! Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 About | Commentary Guidelines | Harvard University Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Admin Login