Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / College of Liberal Arts / Decision Neuroscience, Ph.D. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Africology and African American Studies, M.A. Africology and African American Studies, Ph.D. Anthropology, M.A. Anthropology, Ph.D. Applied Sociology, P.S.M. Creative Writing, M.F.A. Criminal Justice, M.A. Criminal Justice, Ph.D. Decision Neuroscience, Ph.D. Economics, M.A. Economics, Ph.D. English, M.A. English, Ph.D. Geographic Information Systems, P.S.M. Geography and Urban Studies, M.A. Geography and Urban Studies, Ph.D. Geospatial Data Science, P.S.M. History, M.A. History, Ph.D. Liberal Arts, M.L.A. Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity, M.S. Philosophy, M.A. Philosophy, Ph.D. Political Science, M.A. Political Science, Ph.D. Psychological Research, M.S. Psychology, Ph.D. Public Policy, M.P.P. Religion, M.A. Religion, Ph.D. Sociology, M.A. Sociology, Ph.D. Spanish, M.A. Spanish, Ph.D. Graduate Certificate: Crime Science Graduate Certificate: Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies Graduate Certificate: Geographic Information Systems Graduate Certificate: Geospatial Data Science Graduate Certificate: Neuroscience Graduate Certificate: Non-Profit Management Graduate Certificate: Police Leadership Graduate Certificate: Public Policy Graduate Certificate: Spanish for Health Professions Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Decision Neuroscience, Ph.D. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts COLLEGE OF LIBERAL ARTS Learn more about the Doctor of Philosophy in Decision Neuroscience. About the Program The field of decision neuroscience provides new insights into the mechanisms that underlie a wide range of economic and social phenomena, from risky choice and consumer behavior to altruism and cooperation. It is also a primary example of truly interdisciplinary research, with people from such diverse fields as business administration, economics, engineering, neuroscience, philosophy, physics, and psychology working together to advance knowledge of mechanisms underlying decision making and decision preferences. The interdisciplinary Ph.D. program in Decision Neuroscience in the Department of Psychology in the College of Liberal Arts is a collaborative effort with the Fox School of Business and Management. Temple University's Psychology Department has long been a leader in brain and cognitive science research. Similarly, through the efforts of its Center for Applied Research in Decision Making, Fox School has been at the forefront of the field of decision neuroscience over the past six years. Students enrolled in the program gain a thorough understanding of the intellectual issues in the rapidly growing field of decision neuroscience and its subfields of neuroeconomics and neuromarketing. The program has the unique vision of integrating scientific findings with everyday real-world problems. It is designed for students who want to work at the intersection of neuroscience and business. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 7 years Campus Location: Main Full-Time/Part-Time Status: Full-time study is required. Interdisciplinary Study: The program is inherently interdisciplinary. Ranking: Over the years, the Department of Psychology's Ph.D. program has been consistently ranked among the very best by all evaluating agencies. Job Prospects: Graduates of the program are prepared to seek tenure-track appointments either in business schools or psychology departments, depending on their approach to the program's curriculum. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: Non-matriculated students are not permitted to take 8000-level Psychology courses. Financing Opportunities: Both Teaching and Research Assistantships carry a stipend, full tuition remission (up to 12 credits per term depending on year and specialization), and health insurance benefits. The principal duties of a Teaching Assistant (TA) include assisting faculty members in classroom (field and observatory) instruction, conducting tutorials and discussion sections, and grading quizzes. A Research Assistant (RA) is expected to devote 20 hours per week on average to research obligations. An RA is assigned to a faculty member or principal investigator who is working on a specific research project. The appropriate subjects are determined by consultation between the student and the student's research and academic advisors. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: December 1 Applications are not evaluated until after the deadline has passed. APPLY ONLINE to this graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 3 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members familiar with the applicant's academic competence. Master's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: A master's degree is not required. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: All applicants must present credentials that are the equivalent of the appropriate baccalaureate degree at Temple University. Statement of Goals: In approximately 500 to 1,000 words, state your interest in Temple's program, your research goals, your future career goals, and your academic and research achievements. Standardized Test Scores: GRE: Optional. Scores may be submitted if available. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 105 IELTS Academic: 7.0 PTE Academic: 72 Resume: Current resume required. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required Beyond the Baccalaureate: 42 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses BA 9813 Problem Solving using Quantitative Research Methods 3 MKTG 9090 Sem-Sel Topics in Mktg 1 3 PSY 8310 Topical Seminar in Cognitive Psychology (2 courses) 2 6 Course in decision neuroscience 3 Proseminar in decision neuroscience 3 Methods Electives 6 Select two from the following: BA 9806 Integrative Perspectives on Business Knowledge BA 9814 Advanced Quantitative Research Methods BA 9815 Problem Solving using Qualitative Research Methods PSY 8033 Hierarchical Linear Modeling Other Electives 12 Select four from the following: MKTG 9001 Sem-Marketing Theory Dev MKTG 9002 Sem-Behavior Res-Mktg MKTG 9003 Sem-Quant Research-Mktg PSY 8310 Topical Seminar in Cognitive Psychology PSY 8312 Core Course in Cognitive Psychology PSY 8712 Core Course in Behavioral Neuroscience Research Courses PSY 9994 Preliminary Examination Preparation 1 PSY 9998 Pre-Dissertation Research 2 PSY 9999 Ph.D. Dissertation Research 3 Total Credit Hours 42 1 The select topic for this course is an introduction to research in judgment and decision making and their applications. 2 PSY 8310 Topical Seminar in Cognitive Psychology is taken twice for credit. One course topic provides an introduction to the biological bases of higher brain function, including attention, consciousness, emotion, executive functions, language, memory, and perception. The other provides an overview of the use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) in the investigation of human sensory, motor, and cognitive function. Additional Requirements: Research Rotations: In addition to undertaking specially designed interdisciplinary coursework, students complete research rotations during the first year of study that prepare them for independent research in the field of decision neuroscience. Students are required to complete two laboratory rotations in their first year (Fall and Spring) that would ideally be in different subfields with different mentors. Students also have the option to complete a third rotation during the Summer if they require additional exposure. Research rotations are designed to give students a wide range of knowledge in the area of decision neuroscience by being engaged in the research of an assigned lab. When rotating through a lab (or with a research mentor), students are often paired with a senior lab member (e.g., a postdoctoral fellow or senior graduate student) to work on an ongoing research project. In some cases, they may be given a new project based on their knowledge and skill levels. Students are not, however, expected to complete a full project within an academic term. Research Meetings: Students are expected to attend research meetings and to be fully engaged in the research culture. Publications: It is expected that students will write, submit, and publish articles. Grant Proposals: Students are expected to prepare a grant proposal for submission to a government funding agency. Eligible students are also required to write and submit a National Research Service Award (NRSA) proposal at the end of their third year. International students who are not eligible for federal grants are encouraged to work on submissions with faculty members. Culminating Events: Comprehensive Examination: The comprehensive examination is taken at the end of the second year of study. Each student must propose and defend a major area paper in her/his proposed field of research. Upon passing the exam, students choose a faculty member from either the College of Liberal Arts or Fox School as their primary mentor. Dissertation: The doctoral dissertation is an original empirical study that makes a significant contribution to the field. It should expand the existing knowledge and demonstrate both the student's grasp of research methods and a mastery of her/his primary area of interest. Dissertations should be rigorously investigated; uphold the ethics and standards of the field; demonstrate an understanding of the relationship between the primary area of interest and the broader field of psychology; and be prepared for publication in a professional journal. The Dissertation Examining Committee evaluates the student's dissertation and oral defense, including the student's ability to express verbally her/his research question, methodological approach, primary findings, and implications. The Dissertation Examining Committee consists of the Doctoral Advisory Committee plus at least three additional doctorally prepared individuals. The majority of the individuals on the Committee must be members of the Temple University Graduate Faculty. The Dissertation Examining Committee votes to pass or fail the dissertation and the defense at the conclusion of the public presentation. If a student needs to change a member of either the Doctoral Advisory Committee or the Dissertation Examining Committee, the new member must be approved by the Departmental Chair and registered with the department's Graduate Secretary and the Graduate School. Students who are preparing to defend their dissertation should confirm a time and date with their Dissertation Examining Committee and register with the Graduate Secretary at least 15 days before the defense is to be scheduled. The Graduate Secretary arranges the time, date, and room within two working days, and forwards to the student the appropriate forms. After the Graduate Secretary has arranged the time, date, and room for the defense, the student must send to the Graduate School a completed "Announcement of Dissertation Defense" form, found in TUportal under the Tools tab within “University Forms,” at least 10 working days before the defense. The Department posts announcements of the defense, and the Graduate School lists the defense on its website. Contacts Department Web Address: https://www.temple.edu/academics/degree-programs/decision-neuroscience-phd-la-dns-phd Department Information: Dept. of Psychology 659 Weiss Hall 1701 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6085 deborah.drabick@temple.edu 215-204-7321 Submission Address for Application Materials: https://apply.temple.edu/CLA/ Department Contacts: Director of Graduate Studies: Dr. Deborah Drabick deborah.drabick@temple.edu 215-204-0957 Chairperson: Dr. Peter Marshall peter.marshall@temple.edu 215-204-7360 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel