Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Undergraduate / Schools, Colleges, and Divisions / Fox School of Business and Management / All Business Minors & Certificates / Corporate Social Responsibility Minor Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate About This Bulletin Academic Calendar About Temple University Academic Policies Campuses Tuition and Fees Student Financial Aid Academic Programs General Education Intercollegial Programs Temple University, Japan Campus Schools, Colleges, and Divisions Tyler School of Art & Architecture Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts Boyer College of Music & Dance School of Theater, Film and Media Arts College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Fox School of Business and Management All Business Minors & Certificates Corporate Social Responsibility Minor Accounting Actuarial Science Business Management Economics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Management Finance Financial Planning Human Resource Management International Business Legal Studies Management Information Systems Marketing Real Estate Risk Management & Insurance Statistical Science and Data Analytics Supply Chain Management College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication College of Public Health School of Social Work College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management University College Division of University Studies Course Descriptions Graduate and Professional Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Corporate Social Responsibility Minor Open to business or non-business students. Understand how to incorporate economics, the environment, and social responsibility into corporate decision-making. A placement with a community organization practicing sustainability is required as part of BA 3531. Six courses required (five of the courses must be taken at Temple University): Course List Code Title Credit Hours Required Foundation Courses HRM 2511 Corporate Sustainability: People, Profits & Planet 1 3 LGLS 3511 Environmental Law and Sustainability 1 3 BA 3531 Sustainability on the Ground 2 3 Electives Select three of the following: 9 BA 3102 Business Society and Ethics (non-business students only) ECON 3596 Energy, Ecology, and Economy HRM 3505 Sustainable Organizational Leadership MKTG 2511 Marketing for the Sustainable Enterprise SGM 3511 Doing Well by Doing Good: Where Innovation and Entrepreneurship Meet Social Impact CDEV 2354 Cooperatives CTRP 0807 People, Places, and Environment ENVT 0845 The Environment GUS 0842 Sustainable Environments LARC 0841 Sustainable Design Total Credit Hours 18 1 HRM 2511 & LGLS 3511 must be completed prior to BA 3531. 2 Students must contact Debbie Campbell (dcampbell@temple.edu) in spring for permission. This course includes both field study and an academic component. Some courses are only offered once a year depending on demand for the course. A cumulative grade point average of 2.0 in the minor is required as well as a minimum grade of C- in each course. Courses cannot be used to meet minor requirements if already used to meet the requirements for a major or a different minor or certificate. Courses for the minor must be completed prior to graduation; if completed, the minor will be recorded on the final transcript upon graduation. To declare or rescind this minor, visit the Fox School of Business and Management. Interested students should discuss with their home college advisors how the courses in the minor will fit into their overall degree plan and are strongly encouraged to declare the minor early in their academic career. Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel