Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home Brown University Bulletin Home The College Undergraduate Concentrations Chemical Physics Search Bulletin Login | You're logged in as | 2022-23 Course Announcement Bulletin 2022-23 University Bulletin Courses @ Brown Chemical Physics Toggle Navigation Toggle Navigation Back to top Your Concentration(s) Foreword Leadership Faculty General Regulations Academic Calendar The College Curricular Programs Undergraduate Concentrations Chemical Physics Undergraduate Certificates The Graduate School The Division of Biology and Medicine The School of Engineering The School of Public Health School of Professional Studies Departments, Centers, Programs and Institutes University Courses Independent Study Plans Financial Information Academic Facilities and Educational Resources Summary of Enrollment & Degrees Prizes, Premiums, and Honors The Brown Alumni Association Bulletin Archive Print Options Chemical Physics is an interdisciplinary field at the crossroads of chemistry and physics and is administered jointly by the two departments. The concentration provides students with a broad-based understanding in fundamental molecular sciences, as well as a background for graduate studies in physical chemistry, chemical physics, or molecular engineering. Concentrators are required to take twenty courses in chemistry, physics, and mathematics, although approved courses in applied mathematics, biology, computer science, geological sciences, or engineering may be substitutes. Chemical Physics concentrators are also advised to take at least six courses in the humanities and social sciences. Chemical Physics concentrators at all levels (first-year through seniors) are actively involved in research with faculty members in both departments. Standard program for the Sc.B. degree Twenty-one semester courses1 in chemistry, physics, and mathematics, with a minimum of four semester courses in mathematics. The expectation is that courses required for a concentration in Chemical Physics will be taken for a letter grade. Core courses are: CHEM 0330 Equilibrium, Rate, and Structure 1 CHEM 0350 Organic Chemistry 1 CHEM 0500 Inorganic Chemistry 1 CHEM 1140 Physical Chemistry: Quantum Chemistry 1 PHYS 0070 Analytical Mechanics 1 PHYS 0160 Introduction to Relativity, Waves and Quantum Physics 1 PHYS 0470 Electricity and Magnetism 1 Select one of the following laboratory courses: 1 CHEM 1160 Physical Chemistry Laboratory PHYS 0560 Experiments in Modern Physics PHYS 1560 Modern Physics Laboratory Select one course in statistical mechanics: 1 CHEM 1150 Physical Chemistry: Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics PHYS 1530 Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics MATH 0190 Advanced Placement Calculus (Physics/Engineering) 1 MATH 0200 Intermediate Calculus (Physics/Engineering) 1 MATH 0520 Linear Algebra 1 Seven courses, primarily at the 1000 or 2000 level, in chemistry or physics. 7 Select two semesters of independent study: 2 CHEM 0970/0980 Undergraduate Research PHYS 1990 Senior Conference Course Total Credits 21 1 Other approved courses in applied mathematics, biology, computer science, geological sciences, or engineering may be substituted for some of the twenty-one. Students are advised to take at least six courses in the humanities and social sciences. Honors Requirements for Chemical Physics All Chemical Physics concentrators who have grades of A or S with distinction in a majority of their concentration courses will be considered for Honors; no separate application is necessary. The requirements for Honors in Chemical Physics are: * Grades of A or S with distinction in a majority of courses taken for the concentration. * Two semesters of Independent Study (CHEM 0970, CHEM 0980 or equivalent. Guidelines and requirements associated with Independent Study are in the Undergraduate Concentration Handbook which can be found at the department website. * A Thesis in a form approved and recommended by the research advisor. Additional information about thesis guidelines will be provided to seniors by the Concentration Advisor. * A Poster presentation at the chemistry department's spring undergraduate poster session. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022-23 Brown University Resources A to Z Index Registrar's Office Contact Admission Office Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Professional Studies Dean of the College Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download Complete PDFs 2022-23 University Bulletin 2022-23 Course Announcement Bulletin Cancel