Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Apply About Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences School of Business Administration School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link MyUM WorkDay Blackboard Employment Search Miami.edu About Give to UM Schools Alumni Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Registrar's Office Modular Building A 1307 Stanford Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Visit Website Toggle Drawer Navigation Search Home About Services Resources Contact Search Bulletin Home > Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Print Options Graduate Student Handbook for UOnline Students Bulletin Navigation General University Information Undergraduate Academic Programs Graduate Academic Programs Law Academic Programs Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students About the Graduate School Definitions General Academic Requirements and Regulations Registration Admissions New Students Technical Requirements Cost, Fees, Billing and Payment Graduate Grading Repeating Courses & Academic Progression Attendance Late Payments, Holds, Collections and Refunds Ethics, Student Rights and Responsibilities Disciplinary and Grievance Procedures for Graduate Students Honors and Awards Requirements for Commencement Graduate Student Association Graduate Council Student Resources Important Phone Numbers Special Programs Program Index Course Listing Previous Bulletin Archives Message from the Dean Graduate school at the University of Miami is a place where students gain proficiency in a specialty with the guidance of dedicated faculty in the presence of a community of world-class scholars. UM students are thought leaders and innovators whose accomplishments are showcased on a global stage. Our students represent the best and the brightest and their engagement with our faculty continues to elevate the University. University of Miami Graduate School 1252 Memorial Drive 235 Ashe Administration Bldg. Coral Gables, FL 33146 Tel: 305-284-4154 Fax: 305-284-5441 Website: grad.miami.edu University of Miami UOnline Enrollment Office P.O Box 248272 - Loc. 1610 Coral Gables, FL 33146 Tel: 1-800-411-2290 Website: www.miami.edu/online Email: onlineinfo@miami.edu The Graduate Student Handbook for UOnline Students The Graduate Student Handbook for UOnline Students is an excellent resource for graduate online students at the University of Miami. The Handbook contains all applicable policies and valuable information for graduate online students, enrolled in the programs listed in this handbook, compiled into one comprehensive manual. UOnline graduate student enrollment is governed by this Handbook. This handbook describes policies and procedures pertaining to the Graduate School and online graduate study at the University of Miami. Policies or procedures for online graduate students may vary from policies or procedures of campus-based graduate students. This Graduate Student Handbook is applicable to UOnline Students only. In the event of a conflict between this handbook for online graduate students and any other applicable University policies or procedures, the terms of this handbook shall control. It is the student’s responsibility to be aware of and comply with all policies, procedures and deadlines. Although the Handbook contains general information, students should be aware of regulations and policies that directly pertain to individual graduate programs, as many programs have additional requirements of their own, as well as a program handbook. Policies Modification This is the official University of Miami source for the enrollment, business, and financial policies associated with the University's UOnline programs. The University reserves the right to amend and update these policies at any point in the future. Amendments to these policies will be published on the University Registrar's website. Additional University of Miami Policies Please also consult these policies: Our privacy statement for our privacy and data collection polices. Technology policies Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources Use of University Computing Facilities Office of the University Registrar 1306 Stanford Drive The University Center Room 1230 Coral Gables, FL 33146 registrar@miami.edu Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram RSS Copyright 2022-2023 University of Miami. All Right Reserved. Emergency InformationPrivacy Statement & Legal Notices Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Cancel