Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / Tyler School of Art and Architecture / Art Education, M.Ed. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Architecture, M.Arch. Architecture, M.S. Art Education, M.Ed. Art History, M.A. Art History, Ph.D. Ceramics, M.F.A. City and Regional Planning, M.S. Facilities Planning, M.S. Fibers and Materials Studies, M.F.A. Glass, M.F.A. Graphic and Interactive Design, M.F.A. Landscape Architecture, M.L.Arch. Metals/Jewelry/CAD-CAM, M.F.A. Painting, M.F.A. Photography, M.F.A. Printmaking, M.F.A. Sculpture, M.F.A. Graduate Certificate: Community Arts Practices Graduate Certificate: Health Facilities Planning Graduate Certificate: Sustainable Community Planning Graduate Certificate: Teaching Art Education Graduate Certificate: Transportation Planning Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Art Education, M.Ed. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts TYLER SCHOOL OF ART AND ARCHITECTURE About the Program The Master of Education (M.Ed.) with a Major in Art Education at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture is a NASAD-accredited program with an option for students to pursue Pennsylvania certification in art, grades Kindergarten through 12. The program offers a pathway for K-12 teachers who want to hone a specialization in art or anyone who wants to add art teaching credentials. The program gives students access to the resources of both a world-class art school and Temple University, a large public research university. Students develop their understanding of a broad range of art learners and expand their repertoire of teaching strategies. Grounded in both research and the studio, a Tyler M.Ed. gives students the training needed to teach art at the K-12 level and cultivate arts practices beyond formal educational institutions. Tyler students take full advantage of the school’s location in Philadelphia and the city’s rich array of schools, communities, museums, galleries, and artists, opening up opportunities for artistic growth, research, networking, and jobs. The Tyler faculty is committed to urban art education and the power of collaborating with communities. Tyler students not only learn how to teach art and grow as artists, but they also learn how to affect positive change in the communities where they work. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 4 years Campus Location: Main Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The degree program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis. Accreditation: This degree program is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD). Areas of Specialization: Students are encouraged to engage in in-depth study in a specific studio area. Job Prospects: The program is primarily dedicated to producing well-trained art teachers. Licensure/Certification: Teacher certification is the process used in the United States to ensure that prospective K-12 teachers are qualified and prepared to teach at the levels and in the subjects that they intend to teach. Certification in Art Education prepares graduates to teach art to students from K-12. Certification is not always required by private institutions, but some may prefer to hire certified teachers. In order to become certified in Art Education, students must complete a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution of higher education, pass the Praxis® exams required in their state of employment, and satisfy other state-licensing examinations, as applicable. Temple University is a Pennsylvania state-approved teacher preparation program for K-12 Art. See https://www.education.pa.gov/Educators/Certification/BecomeAnEducator/Pages/ACPSpecialty.aspx. Completion of Temple University’s Master of Education in Art Education with Teaching Certification satisfies the necessary requirements for graduates to sit for the Praxis® Core Academic Skills for Educators, Praxis® Subject Assessments, and Praxis® Fundamentals. For certification in some states, students may need to take the Praxis® Principles of Learning and Teaching (PLT) exam for their desired grade levels, which they are prepared for through their field placements, classroom observations, and study of human development and pedagogy. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: Only certain courses are available to non-matriculated graduate students. Please contact the Department of Art Education and Community Arts Practices for more information. Financing Opportunities: In addition to federal student aid, graduate assistantships are available on a competitive basis to support Tyler M.Ed. students. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: January 6 Spring: November 1 All applications are evaluated together after deadline date. Applicants must meet the January 6 priority deadline to be considered for financial assistance. After January 6, applications may be considered on a rolling basis. APPLY ONLINE to this graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 3 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty, art teachers or supervisors, and curators or gallery directors familiar with the applicant's academic and artistic competence. The letters should be submitted with the application at https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/, along with the statement of goals and resume. Coursework Required for Admission Consideration: Applicants must have an undergraduate degree, 40 undergraduate studio credits, and 9 art history credits. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: A degree in Art or Art Education is required. Official transcripts from all universities/colleges attended, whether or not a degree was awarded, must be sent to the Tyler School of Art and Architecture, Graduate Admissions Office, 2001 N. 13th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016. Statement of Goals: Approximately 500 to 1,000 words include your interest in Temple's program in particular, your future career goals, and your academic and artistic endeavors and achievements. Standardized Test Scores: GRE/MAT: Waived for Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 admissions. If submitted, scores should be in the 50th percentile or higher on the verbal and/or analytical sections. Students with concerns about scores should contact the Chair of the Department of Art Education and Community Arts Practices. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 PTE Academic: 53 Portfolio: Applicants must submit a portfolio that consists of 20 images representative of their range of experience and the immediate direction of their work. Include a variety of drawings. Portfolios are to be uploaded at https://temple.slideroom.com, as instructed at the website. SlideRoom requires an additional fee for this service. Original work, slides, CD-ROMs, catalogs, photographs, books, and/or binders are not acceptable substitutes for the SlideRoom portfolio and will not be reviewed or returned. Resume: Current resume required. Transfer Credit: Upon approval of the Art Education Program Director, the student's advisor, and the Associate Dean, up to 9 credits of graduate work completed at Temple University within a five-year period may be transferred into the program. Up to 6 credits of graduate coursework taken at other accredited institutions within the prior five years before matriculation may be considered for transfer into the program after the student has enrolled. No decisions are made until a student has successfully completed 15 matriculated credits at Tyler. The maximum number of credits a student may transfer is 9. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required Beyond the Baccalaureate: 33, or 51 with Teaching Certification Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Art Education or Education Component ARTE 8001 Contemporary Issues in Art Education 3 ARTE 8002 History of Art Education 3 ARTE 8003 Art Education Research 3 One additional course 1 3 Art History Component Select two courses from a range of graduate offerings (courses 5000-5580 or 8000-8570) 6 Studio Art Component Select five studio courses 2 15 Total Credit Hours 33 1 One additional course can be taken in Art Education, Education, or any of the Liberal Arts programs offered by the University, provided it complements a particular research interest and receives prior advisor approval. 2 Select five courses from Tyler's extensive studio course listing. Since in-depth studies are encouraged, students may take as many as three courses (9 credits) in one studio area. Courses are available both in Art and in Graphic Arts and Design. Teaching Certification1 M.Ed. candidates may pursue Teaching Certification concurrently with their graduate studies. An additional 18 credits of coursework is required in Art Education and Educational Psychology coursework: Course List Code Title Credit Hours ARTE 5003 Inclusive Art Education K-12 Students in the Art Room 3 ARTE 5888 Student Teaching 6 ARTE 9187 Graduate Materials and Methods in Art 3 EDUC 8501 Motivation in Education 3 or EDUC 8506 Cognition and Learning in Education EPSY 5561 Development and Learning Over the Lifespan 3 Total Credit Hours 18 1 The M.Ed. with Teaching Certification program of 51 credits, along with successful completion of the state-required Praxis® Fundamental Subjects: Content Knowledge exam and Praxis® Art: Content Knowledge exam, fulfills all of the requirements for Pennsylvania State Certification in Art for Kindergarten through grade 12. Pennsylvania Teaching Certification is awarded to U.S. citizens only. Internship: An internship is required if seeking Teaching Certification. Culminating Events: Artwork Review: At the end of the final term's residence, the student is required to pass a graduate review of artwork conducted by a committee of Art Education and Studio Art faculty. Thesis: In lieu of a comprehensive examination, M.Ed. students produce a thesis, which is a scholarly master's paper developed through research under the guidance of an advisor. Students can complete the scholarly requirement as they pursue required coursework. The scholarly work results from the accumulation of what is learned rather than as an additional course requirement. Students who need additional time to complete the scholarly requirement, however, can register for ARTE 9995 Master's Thesis Research & Writing (1 s.h.) each term until they finish their research and produce their paper. Contacts Program Web Address: https://tyler.temple.edu/programs/art-education Department Information: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 tyleradmissions@temple.edu 215-777-9090 Mailing Address for Official Transcripts: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 Submission Address for Portfolio: https://temple.slideroom.com/ Submission Address for All Other Application Materials: https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/ Department Contacts: Graduate Program Director: Dr. Renee Jackson renee.jackson@temple.edu 215-777-9258 Department Chairperson - Art Education and Community Arts Practices: Dr. Lisa Kay lisa.kay@temple.edu 215-777-9264 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel