Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Undergraduate / Schools, Colleges, and Divisions / Fox School of Business and Management / All Business Minors & Certificates / Business Plus Certificate Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate About This Bulletin Academic Calendar About Temple University Academic Policies Campuses Tuition and Fees Student Financial Aid Academic Programs General Education Intercollegial Programs Temple University, Japan Campus Schools, Colleges, and Divisions Tyler School of Art & Architecture Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts Boyer College of Music & Dance School of Theater, Film and Media Arts College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Fox School of Business and Management All Business Minors & Certificates Business Plus Certificate Accounting Actuarial Science Business Management Economics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Management Finance Financial Planning Human Resource Management International Business Legal Studies Management Information Systems Marketing Real Estate Risk Management & Insurance Statistical Science and Data Analytics Supply Chain Management College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication College of Public Health School of Social Work College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management University College Division of University Studies Course Descriptions Graduate and Professional Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Business Plus Certificate Open only to non-matriculated students. Explore foundation courses that will apply toward B.B.A. if matriculated into this degree program. Five courses required (three of these must be taken at Temple University): Course List Code Title Credit Hours ECON 1101 Macroeconomic Principles 1 3 ECON 1102 Microeconomic Principles 1 3 ACCT 2102 Managerial Accounting 2 3 MKTG 2101 Marketing Management 2 3 RMI 2101 Introduction to Risk Management 2 3 Total Credit Hours 15 1 Appropriate math assessment or prerequisite course required prior to enrolling in Economics. 2 These courses have prerequisites. A minimum grade of C in each course is required. The certificate will be awarded upon satisfactory completion of all required courses. Business Plus courses are available 100% online. Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel