Skip to Content Apply Support TU Login People Finder Maps Social Media Contact ﻿ About TU Admission Academics Campus Life Research Athletics Academics Kendall College of Arts & Sciences Collins College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Continuing Education Departments & Schools Offices & Services Admission and Financial Aid Alexander Health Center Business Office Collins Fitness Center Financial Aid McFarlin Library Office of the Registrar Offices Explore A-Z Index Arts @ TU Courses Degrees Employment Faculty Directory Maps Virtual Tour Resources Academic Calendar Campus Security Contact Events Calendar Information Technology TU Portal Web Site Issue Report Connect With TU ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ Social Media Directory University of Tulsa May 31, 2022 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Select a Bulletin 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Graduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Law Bulletin 2020-2021 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] Global Search Bulletin Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Academic Units Other Content Entire Bulletin Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Bulletin Home All Programs All Courses The Henry Kendall College of Arts and Sciences The Collins College of Business The College of Engineering and Natural Sciences The Oxley College of Health Sciences The College of Law Undergraduate Interdisciplinary and Pre-professional Programs Academic Calendar Accreditation and Assessment Admission Undergraduate Education at The University of Tulsa Academic Policies Tuition and Fees Student Services Student Rights, Freedoms and Responsibilities Resident Faculty My Bulletin HELP 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Admission Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Degree-Seeking Status Non-Degree-Seeking Status International Student Admission The undergraduate admission policy is designed to seek students who demonstrate intellectual promise in a challenging curriculum, and who are committed to the liberal education reflected in the Mission of The University of Tulsa and to upholding the Student Code of Conduct. The University of Tulsa uses a holistic approach in evaluating candidates for admission based on available information including academic and extracurricular achievement and personal qualities. Admissibility is determined by an admission committee under the auspices of the Dean of Admission. Admission to certain degree programs may be limited and have additional academic requirements or a separate program application. The University has a rolling admission process, and applicants will be notified on an ongoing basis starting in late fall. The priority deadline for admission and scholarship consideration is January 15. The Office of Admission adheres to the national Candidate’s Reply Date, which means that applicants are not required to pay a non-refundable enrollment fee nor accept an offer of admission or financial aid/scholarships prior to May 1. Students notified after May 1 of acceptance for the fall semester, or after December 1 for the spring semester, should state their intent to enroll and pay their enrollment fee within two weeks of notification. The enrollment fee is non-refundable. As a member of the National Association for College Admission Counseling, The University of Tulsa fully subscribes to the Statement of Principles of Good Practices. Applicants should review the residency requirements for undergraduate students at The University of Tulsa. Degree-Seeking Status Freshman Application Procedures Graduating high school seniors or adults who have a high school diploma or GED and have never attended an accredited two- or four-year college should apply for admission as freshmen. High school graduates who have attended only a non-accredited postsecondary institution should follow freshman procedures. The Office of Admission reserves the right to verify the authenticity of any documents or statements provided as part of the application and to request additional materials as needed to render an admission decision. Application for Admission and Fee. The priority deadline for admission and scholarships is January 15. Application may be made using either TU’s on-line form or the Common Application. A one-time, non-refundable application fee of $50.00 is also required. In addition to the undergraduate application for admission, freshman applicants to the Energy Management program , the School of Art, Design and Art History , the School of Music , the School of Nursing , and the McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering must follow additional procedures or meet additional standards for acceptance to these programs. Details are available from the Office of Admission or from the program directors. Transcripts. Applicants may be considered for admission on the basis of official sixth semester high school transcripts; however, seventh semester transcripts may be requested by the admission committee. The final official high school transcripts of enrolling students must be submitted from the school directly to the Office of Admission upon graduation. Non-submission will preclude students from enrollment in subsequent terms. Candidates for admission who have received a high school equivalency credential based on the Test of General Educational Development (GED) or High School Equivalency Test (HiSET) must submit an official report of their GED or HiSET scores from the testing agency in addition to a final official transcript of any coursework completed in high school. Transcripts of college courses earned through dual enrollment high school credit are not required for an admission decision, but should be submitted from the credit-granting institution directly to the Office of Admission upon completion of the coursework. SAT or ACT. For the 2021-2022 admission cycle, the University is test-optional. Freshman applicants are given the choice to submit test scores and given the option to have their test scores considered for admission and scholarship. Green Card (PRA) Verification Form. Applicants who have a green card (Permanent Resident status) must submit a legible copy of both sides of the green card. Admission Appointment. Each applicant is assigned a personal admission counselor. It is our goal to meet with each student. We do not require an interview, but we do look forward to getting to know each student. Freshman Selection Freshman admission decisions are based on all available information, including performance in a college preparatory curriculum, class rank, personal accolades, community service, recommendations, and achievements in school and at work. Special talent, leadership, maturity, strength of character, perseverance, and initiative demonstrated through recommendations, extracurricular involvement, personal interviews and the application are also considered. Test scores of the middle fifty percent of the freshman class typically fall between the 80th and 95th percentile nationally and the majority of the freshman rank in the top 10% of their class. The University strongly encourages applicants to undertake a rigorous academic curriculum that includes a minimum of 16 units of college preparatory work (a unit is one year of study in a subject). Honors, Advanced Placement, and International Baccalaureate classes are strongly encouraged and are viewed favorably by the admission committee. Computer competency is expected. Freshmen who show academic promise but whose overall academic records do not fit conventional standards for admission may be considered for conditional admission. Under the terms of conditional admission, the student will be required to maintain a 2.0 cumulative grade point average during the first two semesters. Students admitted conditionally may also be referred to the Student Success Center for services to assist their transition and/or may be asked to participate in summer bridge programming or to enroll in an effective learning strategies course. Admission Revocation. TU reserves the right to withdraw an application, deny admission, revoke an offer of admission, and/or cancel enrollment if TU finds an applicant has provided false information in their application, regardless of intent, or engaged in misconduct before or after admission. The University may revoke an offer of admission and/or cancel enrollment at any time, including after matriculation. The University has full and complete discretion regarding whether to impose these or other sanctions upon any applicant for providing false information or engaging in misconduct. Transfer Application Procedures Students who have attended other accredited colleges or universities since graduating from high school must apply as transfer students. This includes students who were previously enrolled at The University of Tulsa and subsequently attended another institution. The Office of Admission reserves the right to verify the authenticity of any documents or statements provided as part of the application and to request additional materials as needed to render an admission decision. Transfer students must complete a minimum of the last 45 hours of their degree plan at The University of Tulsa. Application for Admission and Fee. An application for transfer admission is required to be considered for transfer admission, and may be made using either TU’s on-line form or the Common Application. A one-time, non-refundable application fee of $50.00 is also required. In addition to the undergraduate application for admission, transfer applicants to the Energy Management program , the School of Art, Design and Art History , the School of Music , the School of Nursing , and the McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering must follow additional procedures or meet additional standards for acceptance to these programs. Details are available from the Office of Admission or the program directors. Transcripts. Official transcripts from each college or university at which the applicant has previously enrolled are required. Official transcripts can be mailed or sent electronically to apply@utulsa.edu or through an electronic delivery service. Transcripts submitted by the applicant are not considered official. An admission decision can be made with one semester of college coursework in progress, but the University reserves the right to require final grades. Failure to disclose a college previously attended could result in withdrawal of the application or admission revocation. Applicants with fewer than 48 hours of completed college coursework (GPA hours earned) are required to submit their final official high school transcript. Applicants who have received a high school equivalency credential based on the Test of General Educational Development (GED) or High School Equivalency Test (HiSET) must submit an official report of their GED or HiSET scores from the testing agency, in addition to an official transcript of any high school work completed. SAT or ACT. For the 2021-2022 admission cycle, the University is test-optional. Transfer applicants with fewer than 30 hours and under the age of 21 are given the choice to submit test scores and given the option to have their test scores considered for admission and scholarship. The Office of Admission reserves the right to validate SAT and ACT results reported on the high school transcript by requesting an official score report from the testing agency. Green Card (PRA) Verification Form. Applicants who have a green card (Permanent Resident status) must submit a legible copy of both sides of the green card. Admission Appointment. Each applicant is assigned a personal admission counselor. It is our goal to meet with each student. We do not require an interview, but we do look forward to getting to know each student. Transfer Selection Transfer admission decisions are based on the complete academic record of the applicant, including all previous college work and, in some cases, high school transcripts and college entrance exams. Work experience, personal accolades, and volunteerism may be considered. Factors such as motivation, maturity, strength of character, perseverance, and accomplishments demonstrated through the application, personal interactions, and other documentation will also be considered. Transfer applicants must be in good standing at the institution last attended. A 2.75 (all-college) cumulative grade point average is recommended for consideration for admission. Offers of admission made to applicants who have coursework in progress at another institution will be provisional pending receipt of final official transcripts. Transfer students who show academic promise but whose overall academic records do not fit conventional standards for admission may be considered for conditional admission. Under the terms of conditional admission, credit hours may be limited and the student will be required to maintain a 2.0 cumulative grade point average during the first semester. Transfer students admitted conditionally are referred to the Student Success Center for services to assist their transition. Students who have been dismissed or suspended from any college or university may not be considered for admission to The University of Tulsa until one calendar year has elapsed. Transfer students who were dismissed from The University of Tulsa prior to attending another college must petition the dean of their college of enrollment before being considered for readmission. Credits earned at another college or university during the dismissal period may not be applied toward a degree from The University of Tulsa unless approved by the readmitting dean. Previous TU students who have not attended another institution since their last term of enrollment at The University of Tulsa are not required to reapply for undergraduate admission. They may be reinstated as a returning student by the Office of the Registrar under the same status previously accorded them by their college advising office. Continuing students who have been dismissed must petition their college dean for readmission. Transfer Credit. The college transcripts of admitted applicants are evaluated by the Office of the Registrar. Transfer applicants are notified in writing of credit that will be accepted toward their intended degree plan at The University of Tulsa. See Transfer Credit for further clarification of the awarding of credit. Admission Revocation. TU reserves the right to withdraw an application, deny admission, revoke an offer of admission, and/or cancel enrollment if TU finds an applicant has provided false information in their application, regardless of intent, or engaged in misconduct before or after admission. The University may revoke an offer of admission and/or cancel enrollment at any time, including after matriculation. The University has full and complete discretion regarding whether to impose these or other sanctions upon any applicant for providing false information or engaging in misconduct. Non-Degree-Seeking Status Non-Degree Seeking Application Procedures A student should apply for admission as a non-degree-seeking student under the following circumstances: Attending on a temporary basis as a “visiting student” while pursuing a program of study at another institution; Fulfilling undergraduate prerequisites for graduate or professional school; Seeking individual courses for personal and/or professional development; Pursuing credit beyond the bachelor’s degree to earn teaching certification; or Student teaching under the auspices of The University of Tulsa. Application for Admission and Fee. An abbreviated Non-degree-seeking Application Form must be submitted to the Office of Admission along with a nonrefundable, one-time application fee of $50.00. Transcripts. An official transcript must be sent directly to the Office of Admission from the institution most recently attended or, in the case of candidates who hold undergraduate degrees, from the degree-granting institution. Academic advisors may require additional transcripts to verify prerequisites. Green Card (PRA) Verification Form. Applicants who have a green card (Permanent Resident status) must submit a legible copy of both sides of the green card. Non-Degree-Seeking Admission Selection Non-degree seeking students must be in good academic standing at the post-secondary institutions previously attended and must demonstrate potential for success in the specific coursework they wish to pursue at The University of Tulsa. Students who have been dismissed or suspended from any college or university will not be considered for admission as a non-degree-seeking student until one calendar year has elapsed. After 15 semester hours have been earned under this status, students must obtain approval from the office of the collegiate dean to continue enrollment as a non-degree seeking student. Non-degree seeking students will be accorded advising privileges and will be subject to the academic rules and regulations of the college in which they are enrolled but are not required to follow a degree plan. A non-degree-seeking student who decides to seek a degree must reapply through the Office of Admission and meet the criteria for admission as a degree-seeking undergraduate student. Concurrent Enrollment of High School Students High school students who are mature, motivated, and exceptionally capable academically may apply to take courses for college credit before graduation if they have completed appropriate preparatory coursework at their school or if they wish to pursue areas of study not available at the secondary level. Concurrent students may apply for fall, spring or summer admission and must provide updated documents and be approved prior to each semester of enrollment. For on-campus classes, students must be at least 16 years old by the time the semester begins, unless a specific exception is made. To evaluate each applicant for admission to the Concurrent Enrollment Program, the following documents are required: Concurrent Enrollment Application Form. The Concurrent Enrollment Application Form, including a brief essay, must be completed by the student and signed by both the student and parent. High School Transcript. An official high school transcript must be delivered electronically mailed or emailed from the school to the Office of Admission. A cumulative grade point average of 3.5 is required. School Approval Form. The School Approval Form must be completed and submitted each semester by the current high school principal or counselor. ACT/SAT Scores. A score report from ACT or SAT must be submitted. Scores listed on an official high school transcript and unofficial scores in the form of a student report are accepted. An ACT Composite score of 25 or an SAT combined score of 1130 on the Math and Critical Reading sections is required. If ACT or SAT has not been taken, one or more of the following items will be considered: PLAN or PSAT scores; counselor, teacher, or principal recommendation; and/or advanced coursework completed at the time of application. Interview. (Optional) Concurrent applicants may be requested to schedule a personal meeting with the Dean of Admission or another Admission staff member. Deadline. Concurrent students are encouraged to have all materials submitted no later than July 1 for fall classes, December 1 for spring classes, or two weeks prior to the first day of the course for summer classes. Summer School Enrollment Students who are not continuing students at The University of Tulsa may attend the summer term under an open admission policy. The Summer Term Application Form must be submitted, but no application fee or transcripts are required. Summer school students who are degree-seeking at another college or university must be in good academic standing at their home institution. International Student Admission An international student is an applicant who is not a citizen of the United States and does not have permanent residency (a “Green Card”) in the U.S. Citizens of countries other than the U.S. should contact the International Admission Team for assistance. Students are encouraged to inquire at least six months in advance of the time they wish to enter the University to confirm deadlines for the receipt of applications. Students must complete an application for admission, pay the application processing fee, and supply certified copies of original transcripts, with certified English translations, for all secondary and post-secondary work. Academic records include a student’s secondary school marks, the result of any national school-leaving examination or certificate, and records from each college or university attended outside of the United States. Failure to disclose a college or university previously attended could result in a withdrawal of the application or offer of admission. Students transferring from another higher education institution are required to submit official transcripts from each college or university they have previously attended. Transfer students who have completed 48 or more semester hours of college credit at the time of their application are exempt from submitting high school transcripts, GED or HiSET results unless requested by the admission committee. For all coursework beyond the secondary level, a syllabus must be submitted so that transfer credit may be determined. Financial responsibility must be attested to in accordance with current cost estimates available from the International Student Services Office. English proficiency is used in determining the admissibility of students to the University. Proficiency is required, however, before a student will be allowed to enroll in academic courses. International students under age 21 and unmarried who are admitted as first- or second-year students will live and dine on campus. See the residency requirements for undergraduate students at The University of Tulsa. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All bulletins © 2022 University of Tulsa. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).