Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / Lewis Katz School of Medicine / Biomedical Sciences, M.S. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Biomedical Sciences, M.S. Biomedical Sciences, Ph.D. Medicine, M.D. Physician Assistant, M.M.S. Urban Bioethics, M.A. Graduate Certificate: Narrative Medicine Graduate Certificate: Urban Bioethics Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Biomedical Sciences, M.S. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts LEWIS KATZ SCHOOL OF MEDICINE About the Program The M.S. program is aimed at broad interdisciplinary training in the major areas of Biomedical Sciences. The goal is to train students in the theory and practice of Biomedical Sciences for eventual service in research and teaching. Students are instructed in diverse laboratory techniques through a series of lecture and laboratory courses, and provided with a program of experimental research for thesis students under the guidance of a faculty member. Two options are available: Thesis Track, with a transcripted concentration in the area of thesis research. Five areas of concentration or clusters are available: Cancer Biology and Genetics, Infectious Disease and Immunity, Molecular and Cellular Biosciences, Neuroscience, and Organ Systems and Translational Medicine. Students complete and defend a master's thesis under the supervision of a faculty member. Non-Thesis Track, which is in General Biomedical Sciences. Students complete didactic coursework in each of the five cluster areas. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 3 years Campus Location: Health Sciences. With the permission of the student's Advisory Committee, elective courses not offered on the Health Sciences Campus may be taken at other campuses. Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The M.S. degree program is designed as a full-time day program of study to be completed in 20 to 24 months. Interdisciplinary Study: The graduate program in Biomedical Sciences is interdisciplinary and emphasizes translational research. Students have the opportunity to work with faculty in disease-based research centers in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, including the Center for Inflammation, Translational and Clinical Lung Research; Center for Metabolic Disease Research; Center for Neurovirology; Center for Substance Abuse Research; Center for Translational Research; Comprehensive NeuroAIDS Center; Fels Institute for Cancer Research and Molecular Biology; Independence Blue Cross Cardiovascular Research Center; Shriners Hospitals Pediatric Research Center; Sol Sherry Thrombosis Research Center; and Temple Autoimmunity Center. Ranking: The 2019 U.S. News and World Report ranked Temple University's Lewis Katz School of Medicine number 60 in Research and among the Best Medical Schools. Areas of Specialization: This interdisciplinary Biomedical Sciences graduate program offers five areas of concentration for students who plan to earn the M.S. with a thesis: Cancer Biology and Genetics Infectious Disease and Immunity Molecular and Cellular Biosciences Neuroscience Organ Systems and Translational Medicine Job Prospects: This well-balanced program has been designed to be individually tailored to meet the interests and needs of each student and to fully prepare each student for a Biomedical Sciences career in academia, industry, and government. The graduate program is designed to provide training in the theory and practice of Biomedical Sciences for eventual placement in research and teaching positions. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: Non-matriculated students may enroll in some courses with permission from the course instructor and approval from the Office of Graduate Studies at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine. Financing Opportunities: Students may visit the Student Financial Services website for financial aid information. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Pre-Application Deadline for International Applicants Only: All international applicants who have not earned a degree in the United States or from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction are required to complete a Pre-Application for approval before applying. The Pre-Application is found on the Biomedical Sciences website at https://medicine.temple.edu/education/biomedical-sciences-graduate-program/admissions/pre-application-international-applicants and must be submitted electronically by October 31. Application Deadline: Fall: February 15 All applicants to the M.S. program must apply via BioMedical’s Centralized Application Service (BioMedCAS). The system can be accessed at https://biomedcas.liaisoncas.com/. Applicants should check their application status on the BioMedCAS portal often and inquire directly of BioMedCAS about receipt of materials. A supplemental application is also required to be submitted directly to Temple University. Submission of the supplemental application generates the applicant’s TUid number. The BioMedCAS application will not be considered without the assigned TUid. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 3 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from faculty and supervisors of research experiences. Coursework Required for Admission Consideration: Applicants should have undergraduate training in the life sciences such as Biology, Biochemistry, Cell Biology, or Molecular Biology and Genetics. Students are also expected to have training in Chemistry and Mathematics. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: A baccalaureate degree in the Biological or Chemical Sciences is required. Statement of Goals: In approximately 500 to 1,000 words, describe your interest in Temple's Biomedical Sciences graduate program, research interests and past experience, future career goals, and academic and research achievements. Standardized Test Scores: GRE: Optional. Students are not required to submit standardized scores, including GRE or MCAT scores, to supplement their application. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 PTE Academic: 53 Transfer Credit: Graduate credits from an accredited institution may be transferred into the M.S. program in Biomedical Sciences. The completed courses must be equivalent in content to coursework offered at Temple, and the grades earned must be a "B" or better in order to transfer credits. The Associate Dean reviews the syllabus from the completed course(s) to determine equivalency and makes the recommendation to accept the credits for transfer. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required Beyond the Baccalaureate: 30 Thesis Track or 36 Non-Thesis Track Required Courses: Thesis Track Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses 1 BMSC 8101 Molecules to Cells 6 BMSC 8102 Experimental Design and Biostatistics 1 BMSC 8103 Scientific Integrity and Bioethics 1 BMSC 8201 Organ Systems: Function, Dysfunction and Therapeutics 4 BMSC 8202 Scientific Communications 1 BMSC 8203 Bioinformatics 1 Concentration-Specific Student Seminar and Journal Club (2 terms) 2 2 Basic Elective 2 Select one from the following: BMSC 8205 Cell Structure & Function BMSC 8206 Molecular, Cellular and Systems Signal Transduction BMSC 8207 Molecular Approaches to Research Concentration-Specific Advanced Electives 3 4 Research Courses BMSC 9991 Biomedical Science Research 1 BMSC 9996 Master's Thesis 7 Total Credit Hours 30 1 All students in the Biomedical Sciences program participate in a common first-year interdisciplinary experience that includes the core courses identified. 2 To complete this requirement, students select the course from the following that aligns with their area of concentration: BMSC 8500 Cancer Biology and Genetics Student Seminar and Journal Club, BMSC 8600 Infectious Disease and Immunity Student Seminar and Journal Club, BMSC 8700 Molecular and Cellular Biosciences Student Seminar and Journal Club, BMSC 8800 Neuroscience Student Seminar and Journal Club, or BMSC 8900 Organ Systems and Translational Medicine Student Seminar and Journal Club. 3 Students select approved courses identified in the grid below for their area of concentration. One basic elective not taken to complete the "Basic Elective" requirement may be substituted for an advanced elective to fulfill this requirement. Approved Advanced Electives by Area of Concentration Course List Code Title Credit Hours Cancer Biology and Genetics BMSC 8502 Cancer Biology BMSC 8503 Genetics and Epigenetics Infectious Disease and Immunity BMSC 8602 The Biology of the Immune Response BMSC 8603 Molecular Genetics of Human Viruses BMSC 8604 Cellular and Molecular Basis of Host-Microbe Interactions Molecular and Cellular Biosciences BMSC 8703 RNA and its Role in Gene Expression BMSC 8704 Molecular Physiology of Ion Signaling BMSC 8706 Structure and Dynamics of Biomolecules and Assemblies Neuroscience BMSC 8802 Essentials of Neuroscience 1 BMSC 8803 Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience BMSC 8804 Neuropharmacology BMSC 8805 Pharmacology of Drugs of Abuse BMSC 8806 Translational Science of Nervous System Diseases Organ Systems and Translational Medicine BMSC 8902 Mechanisms of Cardiovascular Pathophysiology BMSC 8903 Hemostasis and Thrombosis BMSC 8904 Translational Pulmonary Physiology - Experimental Basis BMSC 8905 Advanced Pharmacology and Translational Medicine BMSC 8906 Development, Function and Diseases of the Musculoskeletal System BMSC 8907 Organ Metabolism - Molecular Pathology and Experimental Models 1 Students who select Neuroscience as their concentration are required to complete BMSC 8802 as one of their advanced electives. Non-Thesis Coursework Track Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses 1 BMSC 8101 Molecules to Cells 6 BMSC 8102 Experimental Design and Biostatistics 1 BMSC 8103 Scientific Integrity and Bioethics 1 BMSC 8104 Introduction to Laboratory Research I 1 BMSC 8201 Organ Systems: Function, Dysfunction and Therapeutics 4 BMSC 8202 Scientific Communications 1 BMSC 8203 Bioinformatics 1 BMSC 8204 Introduction to Laboratory Research II 1 Student Seminar and Journal Club (2 terms) 2 2 Basic Elective 2 Select one from the following: BMSC 8205 Cell Structure & Function BMSC 8206 Molecular, Cellular and Systems Signal Transduction BMSC 8207 Molecular Approaches to Research Advanced Electives 3 16 Total Credit Hours 36 1 All students in the Biomedical Sciences program participate in a common first-year interdisciplinary experience that includes the core courses identified. 2 To complete this requirement, students select from BMSC 8500 Cancer Biology and Genetics Student Seminar and Journal Club, BMSC 8600 Infectious Disease and Immunity Student Seminar and Journal Club, BMSC 8700 Molecular and Cellular Biosciences Student Seminar and Journal Club, BMSC 8800 Neuroscience Student Seminar and Journal Club, or BMSC 8900 Organ Systems and Translational Medicine Student Seminar and Journal Club. 3 Students fulfill this requirement by selecting approved courses identified in the grid above. At least one course must be taken in each of the five areas of concentration: Cancer Biology and Genetics, Infectious Disease and Immunity, Molecular and Cellular Biosciences, Neuroscience, and Organ Systems and Translational Medicine. Basic electives not taken to complete the "Basic Elective" requirement may be substituted for advanced electives to fulfill this requirement. Non-Thesis Project Track Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses 1 BMSC 8101 Molecules to Cells 6 BMSC 8102 Experimental Design and Biostatistics 1 BMSC 8103 Scientific Integrity and Bioethics 1 BMSC 8104 Introduction to Laboratory Research I 1 BMSC 8201 Organ Systems: Function, Dysfunction and Therapeutics 4 BMSC 8202 Scientific Communications 1 BMSC 8203 Bioinformatics 1 Student Seminar and Journal Club (2 terms) 2 2 Basic Elective 2 Select one from the following: BMSC 8205 Cell Structure & Function BMSC 8206 Molecular, Cellular and Systems Signal Transduction BMSC 8207 Molecular Approaches to Research Advanced Electives 3 12 Research Course BMSC 9995 Master's Project (2 terms) 4 5 Total Credit Hours 36 1 All students in the Biomedical Sciences program participate in a common first-year interdisciplinary experience that includes the core courses identified. 2 To complete this requirement, students select from BMSC 8500 Cancer Biology and Genetics Student Seminar and Journal Club, BMSC 8600 Infectious Disease and Immunity Student Seminar and Journal Club, BMSC 8700 Molecular and Cellular Biosciences Student Seminar and Journal Club, BMSC 8800 Neuroscience Student Seminar and Journal Club, or BMSC 8900 Organ Systems and Translational Medicine Student Seminar and Journal Club. 3 Students fulfill this requirement by selecting approved courses identified in the grid above. At least one course must be taken in each of the five areas of concentration: Cancer Biology and Genetics, Infectious Disease and Immunity, Molecular and Cellular Biosciences, Neuroscience, and Organ Systems and Translational Medicine. 4 This course is taken under the direction of a faculty mentor. All BMSC 9995 credits must be earned under the direction of the same faculty mentor. Culminating Events: Thesis: For the Thesis Track, the thesis must be based on an original research project. It should demonstrate the student's familiarity with laboratory techniques related to the research project and the ability to evaluate critically the literature in the student’s chosen area. The student submits the thesis in complete form not less than 14 days prior to the date of the final examination. The thesis must have been read and approved by the thesis advisor prior to distribution. The student should confirm a time and date for the thesis defense with the Final Examination Committee. The final examination consists of a defense of the student's thesis to demonstrate competence within the field of the thesis and closely related areas. The student's Advisory Committee votes to pass or fail the thesis and the defense at the conclusion of the presentation. If the student must make revisions, those changes must be approved as arranged by the Committee. Note that the Non-Thesis Track has no culminating event. Students may elect to obtain research experience within a laboratory. Contacts Program Web Address: https://medicine.temple.edu/education/biomedical-sciences-graduate-program Department Information: Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University 3500 N. Broad Street, MERB 1111 Philadelphia, PA 19140 tusmgrad@temple.edu 215-707-2423 215-707-6687 Submission Address for Application Materials: https://biomedcas.liaisoncas.com/ Submission Address for Supplemental Temple University Application: https://apply.temple.edu/MED_GRAD/ Department Contacts: Admissions and Program Coordinators: Dianne Soprano, Ph.D. Associate Dean for Graduate and M.D./Ph.D. Programs dsoprano@temple.edu 215-707-3266 Scott K. Shore, Ph.D. Associate Dean for Graduate Studies and Specialty Programs sks@temple.edu 215-707-5072 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel