Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / Tyler School of Art and Architecture / Landscape Architecture, M.L.Arch. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Architecture, M.Arch. Architecture, M.S. Art Education, M.Ed. Art History, M.A. Art History, Ph.D. Ceramics, M.F.A. City and Regional Planning, M.S. Facilities Planning, M.S. Fibers and Materials Studies, M.F.A. Glass, M.F.A. Graphic and Interactive Design, M.F.A. Landscape Architecture, M.L.Arch. Metals/Jewelry/CAD-CAM, M.F.A. Painting, M.F.A. Photography, M.F.A. Printmaking, M.F.A. Sculpture, M.F.A. Graduate Certificate: Community Arts Practices Graduate Certificate: Health Facilities Planning Graduate Certificate: Sustainable Community Planning Graduate Certificate: Teaching Art Education Graduate Certificate: Transportation Planning Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Landscape Architecture, M.L.Arch. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts TYLER SCHOOL OF ART AND ARCHITECTURE About the Program The Master of Landscape Architecture has an emphasis in ecological landscape restoration. Program objectives are to educate students to become capable practitioners with knowledge of a specialty area of the discipline; to educate practitioners who are trained to think critically and creatively about each ecological situation; and to develop a body of knowledge through research, long-term monitoring of restored landscapes, and comparison of methods upon which current and future professionals can draw. The American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA) describes landscape architecture as a profession encompassing “the analysis, planning, design, management, and stewardship of the natural and built environments.” Landscape architecture is a professional discipline focused on the promotion of environmental balance and human well-being through sustainable design. Ecological landscape restoration, the emphasis of this M.L.Arch. degree, has emerged as a critical dimension of landscape architecture over the past few decades. Landscape restoration increases local and regional biodiversity and mitigates potentially dangerous consequences of degradation through projects such as stream bank stabilization, created wetlands to help infiltrate stormwater, mine reclamation, industrial brownfield remediation, and reforestation of urban land. Understanding the ecological processes and natural history that constitute a site is fundamental to the design process. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 6 years Campus Location: Temple University Ambler, with some courses offered at the Main and Center City campuses. The Master of Landscape Architecture program has access to the Ambler Arboretum at Temple University and the Temple University Field Station at Ambler. Faculty and students use these resources in coursework and research. For more information, see https://ambler.temple.edu/arboretum and https://ambler.temple.edu/fieldstation. Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The degree program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis. Interdisciplinary Study: The program is interdisciplinary and allows students to enroll in classes from allied disciplines. In addition to the courses in Landscape Architecture, the program builds on the field courses in Horticulture related to the woodland and riparian habitats at the Ambler campus. The program can also draw from the repository of local ecological landscape restoration examples and practitioners in the Philadelphia region. Affiliation(s): The program is affiliated with the American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA), the Council of Educators in Landscape Architecture (CELA), and the Society for Ecological Restoration (SER). Accreditation: The Department of Architecture and Environmental Design offers two accredited programs in Landscape Architecture. The first professional Master of Landscape Architecture (M.L.Arch.) degree and the undergraduate Bachelor of Science in Landscape Architecture (B.S.) are both accredited by the Landscape Architectural Accreditation Board (LAAB) of the American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA). Areas of Specialization: The focus of the M.L.Arch. degree program is ecological landscape restoration, which emphasizes understanding of ecological processes and plant communities. This understanding is applied in a sequence of design studios. The design application results in connecting theory and scientific principles to creative application in the natural setting. The program educates practitioners skilled at designing beautiful landscapes that are also ecologically appropriate to their locale. Job Prospects: Prepared with the knowledge to make informed and creative environmental design decisions, graduates are highly marketable and have the skills required of professional landscape architects, including design, computer graphics, horticultural knowledge, technical competence, and knowledge of restoration. As of April 2019, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates an average growth of 6% within the profession between 2016 and 2026. According to Projections Central, which uses Labor Market Information (LMI) or individual State Employment Projections data, the outlook in Pennsylvania between 2018 and 2028 is projected to grow 4.8%, in New Jersey by 7.7%, in Maryland by 6.8%, and in New York State by 10.4%. Temple University's location in this region supports professional opportunities for graduates. This area has a very high concentration of prominent landscape architecture firms, public agencies, and ecological restoration professionals. Licensure/Certification: Licensure in Landscape Architecture is required to use the title “landscape architect” in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia. Licensure for landscape architects is state regulated and must be obtained through achievement of three necessary components: (a) education, (b) professional practice experience, and (c) examination requirements. To obtain licensure, all states require candidates to pass the Landscape Architectural Registration Examination (L.A.R.E.), which is administered by the Council of Landscape Architectural Registration Boards (CLARB). Additionally, a majority of states require a degree that is accredited by the Landscape Architectural Accreditation Board (LAAB). Temple University’s Master of Landscape Architecture is accredited by LAAB and prepares students to sit for the four-part computerized L.A.R.E. Additional requirements (such as exams, questionnaires, or training) may be required based on the individual requirements of the state in which you intend to become licensed. For more information, visit https://www.asla.org/StateGovtAffairsLicensure.aspx. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: A maximum of 9 graduate credits can be taken at Temple University prior to applying to the program. Financing Opportunities: Inquiries about funding should be directed to the Department of Architecture and Environmental Design. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: January 6 Spring: November 1 Applications are reviewed as they are received up through the deadline. Applicants must meet the January 6 priority deadline to be considered for financial assistance. After January 6, applications may be considered on a rolling basis. See the Tyler School of Art and Architecture website for the most up-to-date application information. APPLY ONLINE to this graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 3 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members, employers, and others who can evaluate the applicant's past work and/or ability to do graduate work. The letters should be submitted with the application at https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/, along with the statement of goals. Coursework Required for Admission Consideration: All applicants apply directly to the M.L.Arch. program, not to a specific curricular track. Admitted students are placed in the appropriate track based on a thorough review of all application materials. For students who have an undergraduate degree in Landscape Architecture, this program is a 44-credit post-professional degree. The program is also open to students without a degree in Landscape Architecture, but students without the appropriate prerequisite coursework need a maximum of 26 additional credits. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: All applicants must present credentials that are the equivalent of the appropriate baccalaureate degree at Temple University. Official transcripts from all universities/colleges attended, whether or not a degree was awarded, must be sent to the Tyler School of Art and Architecture, Graduate Admissions Office, 2001 N. 13th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016. Statement of Goals: Approximately 500 to 1,000 words include your reason for pursuing an advanced degree in Landscape Architecture; your interest in Temple's program in particular; and your aspirations and future career goals. Standardized Test Scores: GRE/GMAT: Due to testing limitations related to the ongoing COVID-19 situation, the Tyler School of Art and Architecture is temporarily waiving submission of GRE scores for applicants to the M.L.Arch. in Landscape Architecture degree program for Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 admissions. Applicants may still voluntarily submit GRE test scores, but scores will only be used as a supplement to required application materials. All other admission requirements, including submission of scores for a standardized test of English, if applicable, still need to be met. In some circumstances, the Graduate Admissions Committee may request additional supplemental application materials or an interview as part of the admissions process. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 PTE Academic: 53 Resume: Current resume required. Portfolio: Applicants have the option of submitting a portfolio. Portfolios from students with prior academic experience in Landscape Architecture should include design work done in academic settings. Portfolios may also include work in the visual arts or in visual communication. In addition, work completed in practice may be included but should clearly articulate the applicant’s role in the project. Papers, research, or other materials (preferably dealing with the built environment) are invited as evidence of scholarly, academic, or creative work. Work chosen for inclusion in a portfolio should best represent the applicant's knowledge, aptitudes, interests, creative ability, and experience relative to the discipline of Landscape Architecture. The portfolio may include up to 20 images or other items. Portfolios are to be uploaded at https://temple.slideroom.com, as instructed on the website. SlideRoom requires an additional fee for this service. Original work, slides, CD-ROMs, catalogs, photographs, books, and/or binders are not acceptable substitutes for the SlideRoom portfolio and will not be reviewed or returned. Transfer Credit: The Landscape Architecture Programs Curricular Coordinator recommends the awarding of transfer credits on a case-by-case basis as applications are reviewed. The student may not receive transfer credit for coursework taken as part of any other awarded graduate degree. The maximum number of transfer credits a student may receive is 9. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required to Earn the Degree: 44 for students with an undergraduate degree in Landscape Architecture seeking a post-professional degree; 44-70 for students without an undergraduate degree in Landscape Architecture seeking a first professional degree Required Courses: Post-Professional Degree (for students WITH an undergraduate degree in Landscape Architecture) Year 1 Summer I Credit Hours LARC 8789 Landscape Restoration Workshop 3 Term Credit Hours 3 Fall WOODLANDS LARC 5551 Landscape Architecture Computer Technology II 3 LARC 8151 Woodland Design Studio1 4 LARC 8351 Aesthetics of Ecological Design Seminar1 1 LARC 8751 Northeastern Woodland Ecosystems1 3 Term Credit Hours 11 Spring WETLANDS LARC 8152 Wetland/Riparian Design Studio2 4 LARC 8552 Research Design Methods 3 LARC 8752 Wetland Ecology2 3 Elective3 3 Term Credit Hours 13 Year 2 Fall PUBLIC LANDS LARC 8153 Public Lands Design Studio 4 LARC 8355 Capstone Seminar 1 LARC 8755 Native Plant Communities 3 LARC 8889 Invasive Species Management and Restoration Monitoring 3 Term Credit Hours 11 Spring LARC 9995 Capstone Restoration Design Project 3 Elective3 3 Term Credit Hours 6 Total Credit Hours: 44 1 These three courses (8 credits) are co-requisites and must be taken together. 2 These two courses (7 credits) are co-requisites and must be taken together. 3 Students working toward the post-professional degree select two 3-credit electives in consultation with a Landscape Architecture advisor. First Professional Degree (for students WITHOUT an undergraduate degree in Landscape Architecture) Year 1 Fall Credit Hours PREREQUISITES HORT 8261 Native Woody Plant Identification 3 LARC 8141 Design Communications/Introductory Design Studio I 4 LARC 8241 Landscape Engineering I 3 LARC 8496 Landscape Traditions 3 Term Credit Hours 13 Spring PREREQUISITES HORT 8514 Landscape Restoration 3 LARC 5544 Landscape Architecture Computer Technology I 3 LARC 8144 Landscape Design Studio II 4 LARC 8242 Landscape Engineering II 3 Term Credit Hours 13 Summer LARC 8789 Landscape Restoration Workshop 3 Term Credit Hours 3 Year 2 Fall WOODLANDS LARC 5551 Landscape Architecture Computer Technology II 3 LARC 8151 Woodland Design Studio1 4 LARC 8351 Aesthetics of Ecological Design Seminar1 1 LARC 8751 Northeastern Woodland Ecosystems1 3 Term Credit Hours 11 Spring WETLANDS LARC 8152 Wetland/Riparian Design Studio2 4 LARC 8552 Research Design Methods 3 LARC 8752 Wetland Ecology2 3 Elective3 3 Term Credit Hours 13 Year 3 Fall PUBLIC LANDS LARC 8153 Public Lands Design Studio 4 LARC 8355 Capstone Seminar 1 LARC 8755 Native Plant Communities 3 LARC 8889 Invasive Species Management and Restoration Monitoring 3 Term Credit Hours 11 Spring LARC 8644 Professional Practice 3 LARC 9995 Capstone Restoration Design Project 3 Term Credit Hours 6 Total Credit Hours: 70 1 These three courses (8 credits) are co-requisites and must be taken together. 2 These two courses (7 credits) are co-requisites and must be taken together. 3 Students working toward the first professional degree select one 3-credit elective in consultation with a Landscape Architecture advisor. Internship: All students work with a local or regional client as part of the Capstone Course (LARC 9995 Capstone Restoration Design Project). Culminating Events: Capstone Course: All students must complete LARC 9995 Capstone Restoration Design Project, which involves undertaking a project in cooperation with a local or regional client. Students synthesize the knowledge gained from previous courses in developing an integrated approach appropriate to their project. Contacts Program Web Address: https://tyler.temple.edu/programs/landscape-architecture-horticulture Department Information: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 tyleradmissions@temple.edu 215-777-9090 Mailing Address for Official Transcripts: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 Submission Address for All Other Application Materials: https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/ Department Contacts: Landscape Architecture Programs Curricular Coordinator: Rob Kuper, PLA, ASLA rkuper@temple.edu 267-468-8179 Department Chairperson: Sasha W. Eisenman eisenman@temple.edu 267-468-8168 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel