Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management / Sport Business Executive Program, M.S. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Hospitality Management, M.S. Sport Business, M.S. Sport Business Executive Program, M.S. Travel and Tourism, M.S. Graduate Certificate: Destination Management Graduate Certificate: Event Management Graduate Certificate: Global Tourism Graduate Certificate: Service Excellence Graduate Certificate: Tourism Analytics Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Sport Business Executive Program, M.S. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts SCHOOL OF SPORT, TOURISM AND HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT About the Program The goal of the Executive Master of Science in Sport Business program is to provide experienced business professionals both inside and outside of the sport industry with the quantitative literacy, strategic decision making, and effective business communication skills they need to become senior and c-suite executives within the vast sport industry. In partnership with the Fox School of Business and Management’s online MBA program, the Executive Master of Science in Sport Business program leverages cutting-edge management coursework with focused sport-specific courses to help students lead and succeed in this competitive industry. Graduates of the Executive Master of Science in Sport Business program gain: in-depth knowledge of the size, scope, functioning, and issues facing the global sport industry; enhanced analytical and critical thinking skills; and preparedness for career advancement within the global sport industry. Students interested in studying at the doctoral level should refer to the Ph.D. program in Business Administration with a concentration in Tourism and Sport offered by Fox School of Business and Management. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 4 years, but the program is designed to be completed over 13 months. Campus Location: Online, with a mix of sessions with the instructor, smaller team sessions, and independent work by students. Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The degree program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis. Affiliations: Coursework from the Fox School of Business and Management is required for the Executive Master of Science in Sport Business program. The School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management (STHM) is affiliated with the Fox School. Job Prospects: Students who are not already working in the industry typically find placements with professional sport organizations, collegiate and high school athletics offices, community-based sport organizations, sport marketing agencies, and sport facilities. Financing Opportunities: Students are automatically considered for merit-scholarships from STHM’s graduate programs at the time of admission. Scholarships are awarded on the basis on a student’s academic history and professional experience. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: * * APPLICATIONS will next be accepted for FALL 2023 ADMISSION * * Fall: December 15 – Early Admissions Deadline March 1 – Priority Scholarship Deadline and International Deadline June 30 – Final Application Deadline Applications are processed as they arrive through the deadline. Late applications may be considered for admission if space is available. APPLY ONLINE to this STHM graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 2 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members familiar with academic competence and/or past or current work supervisors. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: All applicants must present credentials that are the equivalent of the appropriate baccalaureate degree at Temple University. Statement of Goals: In 500 words or less, describe your short-term and long-term professional goals. Explain how this program will help you attain those goals. Standardized Test Scores: GMAT/GRE: Scores may be requested based on the applicant's academic and/or professional background. Candidates with an undergraduate GPA below 3.0 are required to submit valid GMAT or GRE test scores. Consult an admissions advisor with any questions. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 Duolingo: 110 PTE Academic: 68 Resume: Current resume or CV required. Transfer Credit: Graduate credits from an accredited institution may be transferred into the program. The credits must be equivalent to coursework offered in the Executive Master of Science in Sport Business and cannot have been used to complete another degree either at Temple University or another institution. The grade must be a "B" (3.0 GPA) or better in order to transfer. The maximum number of credits a student may transfer is 6. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required Beyond the Baccalaureate: 30 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Foundation Courses SRM 5255 The Sport Workplace 3 STAT 5001 Quantitative Methods for Business 3 Sport Industry Courses Select at least five from the following: 15 SRM 5211 Sport Finance and Economics SRM 5212 Legal Issues in Sport and Recreation SRM 5220 Special Topics in Sport and Recreation SRM 5226 Consumer Behavior in Sport and Recreation SRM 5227 Sport Media and Communication SRM 5251 Introduction to Sport Analytics SRM 5252 Sport for Development Cognate Courses Select up to three from the following: 9 EPSY 8960 Seminar Series: Problems in Educational Psychology 1 EPSY 8985 Teaching in Higher Education 1 HRM 5113 Power, Influence, and Negotiation HRM 5114 Building Human Capital HRM 5115 Designing Talent Acquisition Systems HRM 5116 Designing Strategic Reward Systems MKTG 5001 Marketing Management/Strategy MKTG 5107 Product Management MKTG 5109 Mobile Marketing and Communications SGM 5051 Business Strategy in a Global Environment Total Credit Hours 30 1 To enroll in EPSY 8960 and EPSY 8985, students are required to have the approval of their advisor and the Academic Director. Successful completion of both courses is required for a student to earn the Teaching in Higher Education graduate certificate offered by Temple University's Center for the Advancement of Teaching. Culminating Event: Satisfactory completion of coursework is required to earn the Executive Master of Science in Sport Business degree. Contacts Program Web Address: https://sthm.temple.edu/graduate-programs/executive-master-of-science-in-sport-business/ Department Information: School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management 111 Speakman Hall 1810 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6083 sthm@temple.edu 215-204-8701 Submission Address for Application Materials: https://foxgraduate.force.com/ERx_Forms__Portal_Login?type=sthm Department Contacts: Assistant Director of Graduate Enrollment: Michelle Siporin michelle.siporin@temple.edu 215-204-8701 Manager of Student Services: James Alton, M.S.Ed. james.alton@temple.edu 215-204-7140 Academic Director: John Allgood, M.S. john.allgood@temple.edu 215-204-4398 Chairperson: Daniel Funk, Ph.D. Department of Sport and Recreation Management dfunk@temple.edu 215-204-1972 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel