Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home Columbia College Toggle Navigation About the College Mission History News and Updates Strategic Plan Annual Report Events Columbia to the Core Dean of the College Visit Columbia College Staff & Administration The Core Curriculum Contemporary Civilization Literature Humanities Art Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Frontiers of Science Global Core Requirement Center for the Core Curriculum Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Majors, Concentrations, and Programs of Study Departments, Institutes and Centers Academic Advising Resources Fellowships Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Academic Honors, Awards, and Prizes Policies and Procedures Academic Integrity Academic Planning and Administration Admissions Financial Aid Learn About Columbia Visit Columbia Apply to Columbia Campus Life Undergraduate Student Life Student Resources Supporting the College More Faculty Parents Alumni Search Bulletin 2021-22 Bulletin Home / Columbia College Bulletin / Departments, Programs, and Courses / Linguistics Print Options Toggle Navigation Toggle Navigation The Administration and Faculty of Columbia College Academic Requirements Core Curriculum Departments, Programs, and Courses Search the Course Listings African American and African Diaspora Studies American Studies Ancient Studies Anthropology Archaeology Architecture Art History and Archaeology Astronomy Biological Sciences Business Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Colloquia, Interdepartmental Seminars, and Professional School Offerings Comparative Literature and Society Computer Science Creative Writing Dance Drama and Theatre Arts Earth and Environmental Sciences East Asian Languages and Cultures Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Economics Education English and Comparative Literature Ethnicity and Race Studies Film and Media Studies French and Romance Philology Germanic Languages History History and Philosophy of Science Human Rights Italian Jazz Studies Jewish Studies Language Resource Center Latin American and Caribbean Studies Latin American and Iberian Cultures Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies Music Philosophy Physical Education and Intercollegiate Athletics Physics Political Science Psychology Public Health Regional Studies Religion Slavic Languages Sociology Statistics Sustainable Development Urban Studies Visual Arts Women's and Gender Studies Academic Calendar Registration Academic Regulations Study Abroad Special Programs Academic Honors, Prizes, and Fellowships Standards and Discipline Columbia University Policies Admission Fees, Expenses, and Financial Aid Linguistics Overview Faculty Requirements Courses Director of Undergraduate Studies: Prof. Meredith Landman, ml4263@columbia.edu Program Director: Prof. John McWhorter, jm3156@columbia.edu In any discussion of linguistics, in popular or academic contexts, the first question is always, what is linguistics, after all? This is remarkable. Language informs most of our mental and cultural activity, and linguistics is the just study of language. Linguistics, especially since the 1960s, has become a highly multifarious, and even sprawling, field of inquiry. This requires that a major acquaint students with a number of subfields, all of which are crucial to understanding what modern linguistic analysis is about, and foster interdisciplinary inquiry as well. To wit, the person with a basic foundation in what constitutes linguistic study in our times (including realistic training for graduate study if desired) understands: a) the basics of grammatical analysis in terms of sounds and sentence structure b) how languages change over time c) the mechanics of how languages express meaning and implication d) the details and nuances of how language is used in social space e) the ways and extent to which the world's 7000 languages differ from one another f) the relationship between language and cognition writ large Study Abroad Undergraduates have engaged in unique travel and research projects, including sign language in Nicaragua; language attitudes in Kyrgyzstan; colloquial Arabic in Cairo; summer internship at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology; and study abroad in Spain, England, India, Hungary, and Ireland. Graduate Study Columbia's linguists have distinguished themselves with awards and plans after graduation, such as Fulbright Fellowships to France, Georgia, and Turkey; and graduate study of linguistics or psychology at Harvard, Stanford, UCSD, Northwestern, New York University, and SUNY Buffalo. Linguistics is also a natural background for the law, and our students have entered such law schools as Georgetown and Columbia. There is no graduate program in linguistics at Columbia. Students interested in pursuing graduate study in linguistics in New York should investigate CUNY Graduate Center, New York University, or Teachers College (applied linguistics). Affiliated Faculty May Ahmar (Arabic; MESAAS) Akeel Bilgrami (Philosophy) Aaron Fox (Music) Melissa Fusco (Philosophy) Haim Gaifman (Philosophy) Boris Gasparov (Slavic Languages) E. Mara Green, (Anthropolgy, Barnard) Julia Hirschberg (Computer Science) Ana Paula Huback (Latin American and Iberian Studies) Meredith Landman (Slavic Languages) Karen Lewis (Philosophy, Barnard) Lening Liu (Chinese; East Asian Languages and Cultures) Reyes Llopis-Garcia (Latin American and Iberian Cultures) David Lurie (Japanese; East Asian Languages and Cultures) Kathleen McKeown (Computer Science) John McWhorter (American Studies) Yuan-Yuan Meng (Chinese; East Asian Languages and Cultures) Michele Miozzo (Psychology) Fumiko Nazikian (Japanese; East Asian Languages and Cultures) Youssef Nouhi (Arabic; MESAAS) Christopher Peacocke (Philosophy) John Phan (East Asian Languages and Cultures) Robert Remez (Psychology, Barnard) Francisco Rosales-Varo (Latin American and Iberian Studies) Carol Rounds (Hungarian; Italian) José Plácido Ruiz-Campillo (Latin American and Iberian Studies) Richard Sacks (English and Comparative Literature) Ann Senghas (Psychology, Barnard) Mariame Sy (Wolof; Pulaar; MESAAS) Herbert Terrace (Psychology) Alan Timberlake (Slavic Languages) Silja Verona Weber (German; Germanic Languages) Zhirong Wang (Chinese; East Asian Languages and Cultures) Major in Linguistics The complete major requirement – totaling 38 points – is the following: 1. LING UN3101 Introduction to Linguistics (3pts.) 2. LING GU4376 Phonetics and Phonology (3pts.) 3. LING GU4903 Syntax (3pts.) 4. One course from four out of five themes (12 pts. total): a) Language in time Content: Historical linguistics, as in how grammars transform over time (such as the development of Modern from Old English) in terms of sounds, structures, and meaning LING GU4108 Language History ENGL GU4901 History of the English Language CHNS GU4019 HISTORY OF CHINESE LANGUAGE b) Language in context Content: How language varies in structure and usage according to sociological factors such as gender, class, race, power and culture LING GU4800 LANGUAGE ＆ SOCIETY LING UN3102 Endangered Languages in the Global City: Lang, Culture, and Migration in Contempary NYC ANTH UN1009 Introduction to Language and Culture ANTH GR6067 Language and Its Limits (graduate seminar open to undergraduates) AMST UN3931 Topics in American Studies (Languages of America) AMST UN3931 Topics in American Studies (Language Contact) SPAN GU4010 LANGUAGE CROSSING IN LATINX CARIBBEAN CULTURAL PRODUCTION SPAN BC3382 Languages in Contact: Sociolinguistic Aspects of U. S. Spanish (taught in Spanish) PORT GU4033 Language ＆ Queer Brazil (ENG) c) Language diversity Content: How languages differ from one another and in which ways; especially valuable in this module are a) Field Methods, eliciting the vocabulary and structure of a lesser documented language by questioning a native speaker, in the fashion of professional linguists, b) courses focusing on the structure of individual languages LING GU4206 Advanced Grammar and Grammars LING GU4120 Language Documentation and Field Methods LING GU4171 Languages of Africa HNGR UN3343 Descriptive Grammar Hungarian d) Language and meaning Content: semantics, philosophy of language, cognitive linguistics, natural language processing LING GU4190 DISCOURSE ANALYSIS PHIL UN2685 Introduction to Philosophy of Language SPAN GR5450 A COGNITIVE LINGUISTICS ACCOUNT OF LANGUAGE SPAN GU4030 Spanish Pragmatics (taught in Spanish e) Psychology and biology of language Content: psycholinguistics, neurolinguistics, language genesis. This is especially important given the burgeoning research on the actual structural representation of language in the brain, as well as increasingly influential proposals that ground language in larger thought processes (as opposed to the Chomskyan proposal that language is, to a considerable extent, generated via exclusive cognitive mechanisms). LING UN3103 Language, Brain and Mind PSYC BC3164 Perception and Language PSYC GU4232 Production and Perception of Language PSYC BC3369 Language Development PSYC GU4242 Evolution of Language (Seminar) (graduate seminar open to undergraduates) PSYC GU4272 Advanced Seminar in Language Development PSYC GU4470 Psychology & Neuropsychology of Language (Seminar) 4. One elective course (3 pts.) from either a) one of the themes, or b) a linguistics-related course from another department subject to approval from the program. This option will allow students to either sample more widely or specialize somewhat in a subarea of linguistics that has come to interest them. 5. Senior thesis (two semesters, 3 pts. per semester) 6. Two language courses at the intermediate level (8pts.), separate from the core curriculum foreign language requirement. The language taken can be either an ancient or modern language, but should neither be the student’s native or semi-native language nor belong to one of the major groups of modern European languages (Germanic, Romance). Special Concentration in Linguistics The special concentration in linguistics is not sufficient for graduation in and of itself. It must be taken in conjunction with a major or a full concentration in another discipline. Please note: the requirements for the special concentration in Linguistics were modified in the Fall 2019 semester. Students who entered Columbia before the Fall 2019 semester have the option of following the new or the old requirements. If you have any questions, please contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies. For the new requirements, students must take 23 points in the linguistics program as specified below. For the old requirements, students must take 18 points; the requirements are specified below, with the exception that the language requirement is one language course at the intermediate level (4pts.), separate from the core curriculum foreign language requirement. The requirements for the special concentration (23 points) are as follows: 1. Three core courses in linguistics chosen from: LING UN3101 Introduction to Linguistics LING UN3102 Endangered Languages in the Global City: Lang, Culture, and Migration in Contempary NYC LING UN3103 Language, Brain and Mind HNGR UN3343 Descriptive Grammar Hungarian LING GU4108 Language History LING GU4120 Language Documentation and Field Methods LING GU4171 Languages of Africa LING GU4190 DISCOURSE ANALYSIS LING GU4206 Advanced Grammar and Grammars LING GU4376 Phonetics and Phonology LING GU4800 LANGUAGE ＆ SOCIETY LING GU4903 Syntax 2. Two additional courses from either a) the core linguistics courses, or b) a linguistics-related course from another department subject to approval from the program. Courses previously approved include those listed below: Anthropology: ANTH UN1009 Introduction to Language and Culture ANTH GU4042 Agent, Person, Subject, Self ANTH GR6067 Language and Its Limits ANTH GR6125 Language, Culture, and Power Chinese: CHNS GU4019 HISTORY OF CHINESE LANGUAGE Computer Science: COMS W1012 Computational Linguistics (this is a section of COMS W1002 COMPUTING IN CONTEXT) COMS UN3261 Computer Science Theory COMS GU4705 Natural Language Processing COMS GU4706 Spoken Language Processing COMS GR6998 Topics in Computer Science Comparative Literature & Society: CPLS GU4111 World Philology French: FREN BC3011 History of the French Language Philosophy: PHIL UN2685 Introduction to Philosophy of Language PHIL UN3411 SYMBOLIC LOGIC PHIL UN3685 PHILOSOPHY OF LANGUAGE PHIL GU4490 LANGUAGE AND MIND Psychology: PSYC UN2215 Cognition and the Brain PSYC UN2440: Language and the Brain PSYC UN2450 Behavioral Neuroscience PSYC BC3164 Perception and Language PSYC UN3265 Auditory Perception (Seminar) PSYC BC3369 Language Development PSYC GU4232 Production and Perception of Language PSYC GU4272 Advanced Seminar in Language Development Spanish: SPAN BC3382 Languages in Contact: Sociolinguistic Aspects of U. S. Spanish SPAN GU4010 LANGUAGE CROSSING IN LATINX CARIBBEAN CULTURAL PRODUCTION SPAN GU4030 Spanish Pragmatics SPAN GR5450 A COGNITIVE LINGUISTICS ACCOUNT OF LANGUAGE Sociology: SOCI GU4030 Sociology of Language 3. Two language courses at the intermediate level (8pts.), separate from the core curriculum foreign language requirement. The language taken can be either an ancient or modern language, but should neither be the student’s native (or semi-native) language nor belong to one of the major groups of modern European languages (Germanic, Romance). In Fulfillment of the Language Requirement for Linguistics The language taken in fulfillment of the linguistics requirement can be either an ancient or modern language, but should neither be the student’s native (or semi-native) language nor belong to one of the major groups of modern European languages (Germanic, Romance). In addition to the regularly taught courses listed under the Foreign Language Requirement, the following is a list of languages that have been offered at Columbia. See the list of languages offered through the Language Resource Center and consult with the Director of Undergraduate Studies about other languages to determine if they are acceptable for the linguistics language requirement. Ancient Egyptian Anglo-Saxon Aramaic Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian Cantonese Chagatay Czech Finnish Georgian Hindi Hungarian Indonesian Irish Kannada Kazakh Korean Nahuatl Nepali Old Church Slavonic Quechua Persian Polish Pulaar Romanian Sumerian Swahili Syriac Tajik Tamil Telugu Ukrainian Uzbek Urdu Vietnamese Wolof Zulu Linguistics LING UN3101 Introduction to Linguistics. 3 points. An introduction to the study of language from a scientific perspective. The course is divided into three units: language as a system (sounds, morphology, syntax, and semantics), language in context (in space, time, and community), and language of the individual (psycholinguistics, errors, aphasia, neurology of language, and acquisition). Workload: lecture, weekly homework, and final examination. Spring 2022: LING UN3101 Course Number Section/Call Number Times/Location Instructor Points Enrollment LING 3101 001/12155 T Th 2:40pm - 3:55pm 301 Pupin Laboratories John McWhorter 3 206/272 Fall 2022: LING UN3101 Course Number Section/Call Number Times/Location Instructor Points Enrollment LING 3101 001/10613 T Th 2:40pm - 3:55pm Room TBA John McWhorter 3 123/300 LING UN3102 Endangered Languages in the Global City: Lang, Culture, and Migration in Contempary NYC. 3 points. CC/GS/SEAS: Partial Fulfillment of Global Core Requirement Of the world’s estimated 7,000 languages – representing migrations and historical developments thousands of years old – the majority are oral, little-documented, and increasingly endangered under the onslaught of global languages like English. This course will take the unprecedented, paradoxical linguistic capital of New York City as a lens for examining how immigrants form communities in a new land, how those communities are integrated into the wider society, and how they grapple with linguistic and cultural loss. Interdisciplinary with an experiential learning component, the course will focus on texts, materials, encounters, and fieldwork with three of the city’s newest and least-studied indigenous immigrant communities (indigenous Latin Americans, Himalayans, and Central Asians). Indigeneity, though often invisible or perceived as marginal in global cities like New York, is in fact pervasive and fundamental. Cities now constitute a crucial site for understanding migration and cultural change, with language a vehicle for culture. Studying cultures only in situ (i.e. in their homelands) risks missing a crucial dimension. Students will be immersed in stateless, oral, immigrant cultures while also gaining a hands-on critical understanding of language endangerment and urban sociolinguistic research, first through field experiences and guest speakers (Endangered Language Alliance partners) and then by going out together into communities to work on projects in small teams. The Endangered Language Alliance (ELA), where the instructor is Co-Director, was formed as a non-profit research institute in 2010 as a forum for researchers, community members, activists, artists, and other New Yorkers to come together to support indigenous and minority languages. ELA’s video recordings provide first-hand testimony of endangered languages in the global city – in indigenous languages with English translation – available in few other places. Those texts will be central to this course, supplemented by the new,first-ever, detailed language map of New York City being produced by ELA. Fall 2022: LING UN3102 Course Number Section/Call Number Times/Location Instructor Points Enrollment LING 3102 001/11078 T Th 4:10pm - 5:25pm Room TBA Ross Perlin 3 30/30 LING UN3103 Language, Brain and Mind. 3.00 points. The ability to speak distinguishes humans from all other animals, including our closest relatives, the chimpanzees. Why is this so? What makes this possible? This course seeks to answer these questions. We will look at the neurological and psychological foundations of the human faculty of language. How did our brains change to allow language to evolve? Where in our brains are the components of language found? Are our minds specialized for learning language or is it part of our general cognitive abilities to learn? How are words and sentences produced and their meanings recognized? The structure of languages around the world varies greatly; does this have psychological effects for their speakers? Fall 2022: LING UN3103 Course Number Section/Call Number Times/Location Instructor Points Enrollment LING 3103 001/11077 M W 2:40pm - 3:55pm Room TBA William Foley 3.00 49/80 LING UN3997 Supervised Individual Research. 2-4 points. LING UN3998 Supervised Individual Research. 2-4 points. Supervised Individual Research LING GU4108 Language History. 3 points. Prerequisites: LING UN3101 Language, like all components of culture, is structured and conventional, yet can nevertheless change over time. This course examines how language changes, firstly as a self-contained system that changes organically and autonomously, and secondly as contextualized habits that change in time, in space, and in communities. Workload: readings & discussion, weekly problems, and final examination. Fall 2022: LING GU4108 Course Number Section/Call Number Times/Location Instructor Points Enrollment LING 4108 001/10591 M W 11:40am - 12:55pm Room TBA Meredith Landman 3 12/30 LING GU4120 Language Documentation and Field Methods. 3 points. Prerequisites: LING UN3101 In light of the predicted loss of up to 90% of the world languages by the end of this century, it has become urgent that linguists take a more active role in documenting and conserving endangered languages. In this course, we will learn the essential skills and technology of language documentation through work with speakers of an endangered language. Spring 2022: LING GU4120 Course Number Section/Call Number Times/Location Instructor Points Enrollment LING 4120 001/12148 T Th 1:10pm - 2:25pm 707 Hamilton Hall Meredith Landman 3 16/18 LING GU4171 Languages of Africa. 3 points. The African continent is home not to simply a collection of similar "African dialects," but to at least 1000 distinct languages that belong to five language families, none of them any more closely related than English and its relatives are to Japanese. This includes the Semitic languages that emerged in the Middle East and are now most commonly associated with Arabic and Hebrew, the famous "click" languages of Southern Africa whose origins are still shrouded by mystery, and in the case of Malagasy on Madagascar, the Austronesian family of Southeast Asia and Oceania - the language traces to speakers who travelled over the ocean from Borneo to Africa. This course will examine languages in all of these families, with a focus on how they demonstrate a wide array of linguistic processes and how they interact with social history, anthropology, and geography. LING GU4172 The Structure of Cambodian. 3 points. Like every other language, Cambodian is totally unique in some respects (these are of interest only to the language learner), and a representative human language in others (these are of interest to all students of language). Thus, for example, like every written language, Cambodian will exhibit diglossia: the grammar and the vocabulary of the written language will differ from that of the spoken language. It is also a member of a language family, known as Austroasiatic, whose members are spoken from NE India through Malaysia, Myanmar, and Indochina. In addition, Cambodian is a structural representative of a given type of language spoken throughout mainland Southeast Asia. That is, in many respects, the structure of Cambodian is similar to those of Lao, Thai, Vietnamese, as well as Hmong. In the “Far West” of SE Asia, are spoken other languages, among them Burmese, Mon, and Karen, which are still similar, but less so. All of these languages are isolating, monosyllabic languages. Of the languages just listed, only Vietnamese and Mon are genetically related to Cambodian. Finally, in its orthography and lexicon, Cambodian has borrowed so extensively from Indic languages, that all literate speakers have a considerable background in practical etymology, and recognize borrowings from , say, Pali, as English speakers generally do not recognize borrowings from Norman French or Latin or Greek. Since the Indic languages belong to Indoeuropean, some unexpected words in Cambodian (e.g. niam ,smaeu ) will turn out to have English cognates (like name, same). Your goal in this course is not to acquire a speaking knowledge of Khmer. (For that you would need a pedagogical grammar, a native-speaker instructor, and hours and hours of practice in the lab and in the classroom.) It is rather to understand from a linguist’s point of view what it is that makes this language a typical language of this part of the world. We will be working through a reference grammar of the language together. You are each also going to ‘adopt’ another mainland SE Asian language for purposes of comparison, to experience for yourself what it means for a language to be a member of a linguistic alliance or Sprachbund. You may select your own ‘pet’ language, and your assignment will then be to ‘master’ this language in the same way that you have ‘mastered’ Khmer. LING GU4190 DISCOURSE ANALYSIS. 3.00 points. Prerequisites: LING UN3101 Prerequisites: LING UN3101 How discourse works; how language is used: oral vs. written modes of language; the structure of discourse; speech acts and speech genres; the expression of power; authenticity; and solidarity in discourse, dialogicity, pragmatics, and mimesis Spring 2022: LING GU4190 Course Number Section/Call Number Times/Location Instructor Points Enrollment LING 4190 001/17357 W 6:10pm - 8:00pm 329 Uris Hall John Wright 3.00 2/25 LING GU4206 Advanced Grammar and Grammars. 3 points. Prerequisites: LING UN3101 LING W3101. An investigation of the possible types of grammatical phenomena (argument structure, tense/aspect/mood, relative clauses, classifiers, and deixis). This typological approach is enriched by the reading of actual grammars of languages from Asia, Africa, Australia, and the Americas in which gramatical descriptions are read with an eye to important notional concepts of grammar: reference and categorization, case and role of arguments with predicates (ergativity), tense/aspect/mood. Discussion of meaning is combined with attention to expression (that is, morphology), which yanks our attention towards language change (grammaticalization). LING GU4376 Phonetics and Phonology. 3 points. Prerequisites: LING UN3101 An investigation of the sounds of human language, from the perspective of phonetics (articulation and acoustics, including computer-aided acoustic analysis) and phonology (the distribution and function of sounds in individual languages). Spring 2022: LING GU4376 Course Number Section/Call Number Times/Location Instructor Points Enrollment LING 4376 001/12144 M W 11:40am - 12:55pm 602 Northwest Corner Meredith Landman 3 22/30 LING GU4800 LANGUAGE ＆ SOCIETY. 3.00 points. How language structure and usage varies according to societal factors such as social history and socioeconomic factors, illustrated with study modules on language contact, language standardization and literacy, quantitative sociolinguistic theory, language allegiance, language, and power Spring 2022: LING GU4800 Course Number Section/Call Number Times/Location Instructor Points Enrollment LING 4800 001/12147 M W 2:40pm - 3:55pm Aud Earl Hall William Foley 3.00 27/80 LING GU4903 Syntax. 3 points. Prerequisites: LING UN3101 Syntax - the combination of words - has been at the center of the Chomskyan revolution in Linguistics. This is a technical course which examines modern formal theories of syntax, focusing on later versions of generative syntax (Government and Binding) with secondary attention to alternative models (HPSG, Categorial Grammar). Fall 2022: LING GU4903 Course Number Section/Call Number Times/Location Instructor Points Enrollment LING 4903 001/10588 T Th 11:40am - 12:55pm Room TBA Meredith Landman 3 30/30 Columbia College Columbia University in the City of New York 208 Hamilton Hall, Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 ColumbiaCollege@columbia.edu Phone: 212-854-2441 College Offices Alumni Affairs and Development Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Center for the Core Curriculum Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Double Discovery Center Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights Financial Aid & Educational Financing Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Student Life Follow Us Columbia College on Facebook Columbia College on Twitter Columbia College on Instagram © 2021-22 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page including tabs. Cancel