Skip to Content Apply Support TU Login People Finder Maps Social Media Contact ﻿ About TU Admission Academics Campus Life Research Athletics Academics Kendall College of Arts & Sciences Collins College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Continuing Education Departments & Schools Offices & Services Admission and Financial Aid Alexander Health Center Business Office Collins Fitness Center Financial Aid McFarlin Library Office of the Registrar Offices Explore A-Z Index Arts @ TU Courses Degrees Employment Faculty Directory Maps Virtual Tour Resources Academic Calendar Campus Security Contact Events Calendar Information Technology TU Portal Web Site Issue Report Connect With TU ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ Social Media Directory University of Tulsa May 31, 2022 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Select a Bulletin 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Graduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Law Bulletin 2020-2021 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] Global Search Bulletin Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Academic Units Other Content Entire Bulletin Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Bulletin Home All Programs All Courses The Henry Kendall College of Arts and Sciences The Collins College of Business The College of Engineering and Natural Sciences The Oxley College of Health Sciences The College of Law Undergraduate Interdisciplinary and Pre-professional Programs Academic Calendar Accreditation and Assessment Admission Undergraduate Education at The University of Tulsa Academic Policies Tuition and Fees Student Services Student Rights, Freedoms and Responsibilities Resident Faculty My Bulletin HELP 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Student Services Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) The Student Success Team Student success at The University of Tulsa is paramount. The Student Success Team provides students with a welcoming and responsive place to find support throughout their time at The University of Tulsa. The Student Success Team is comprised of Student Accessibility, Student Success Initiatives, New Student Programs, and the Student Success Coaches. The Student Success Team serves as an initial reference point for students who need academic assistance, tutoring, and other kinds of help. Faculty members are encouraged to send students with such problems or questions directly to The Student Success Team, where their situations are evaluated, and appropriate assistance is given. Students may check with the Student Success Help Desk located on the first floor in Hardesty Hall Holmes Student Center when questions arise. Student Success Coaches Student Success Coaches engage students in challenging conversations to identify strengths and gaps in eight holistic focus areas that are linked to persistence to graduation. In addition, Student Success Coaches are trained in techniques to help students learn study skills to improve academic performance. Students leave every coaching session with an identified goal and action plan to move the student forward in their success. Partnering with students, Student Success Coaches also provide accountability that moves them towards accomplishing their personal and academic goals. They act as a liaison with other student services, both academic and personal, on students’ behalf. Success Coaches can be reached at successcoaches@utulsa.edu. Student Access The University of Tulsa is committed to ensuring equal access to academic and co-curricular opportunities for students with physical, psychological, intellectual, and sensory disabilities at TU. Student Access staff will work with students to determine and provide reasonable accommodations and services as well as advocacy and referrals when appropriate. In addition, Pathfinders, coordinated by Student Access staff, offers social and educational programming and coaching for students with Autism Spectrum and social anxiety disorders. Student Access staff also assist students in arranging testing accommodations, and the Testing Center offers a distraction-reduced environment in which students can take exams with approval. Contact 918-631-2315 or testing@utulsa.edu for more information about testing accommodations. Information concerning special services and facilities for students in need of accommodations may be obtained by contacting the Student Access staff at 918-631-2315 or studentaccess@utulsa.edu. A copy of the 504/ADA policy may be obtained here. Student Success Initiatives The primary objective of the Office of Student Success Initiatives (SSI) is to determine how best to assist students so they become engaged learners who persist in their studies and meet their goals. The SSI office achieves this goal by working collaboratively with various campus constituencies to develop, implement, and maintain data-informed initiatives that are designed to enhance student success and persistence, and assessed to ensure that programming is effectively meeting the continuously changing needs of TU’s student population. SSI also coordinates campus tutoring efforts. For students interested in securing a tutor, please contact the tutoring coordinator in the SSI office at tutoring@utulsa.edu. Math Resource Center The Math Resource Center, also known as the “Math Lab,” provides math tutoring to students in freshman- and sophomore-level mathematics classes. The Math Lab provides free, walk-in tutoring for individuals or small groups. The Math Lab is located in Keplinger Hall, Room 3265 (NW corner of the upper level). Hours are posted each semester at the Math Lab, or contact the Department of Mathematics at 918-631-3674 for current hours. Writing Center Located in McFarlin Library and staffed by the Department of English, the Helen N. Wallace Writing Center provides free consultations on writing projects for the campus community in a relaxed, comfortable, and informal setting. Consultants work with writers in a collaborative effort to foster engagement in the writing process as a whole, from generating ideas to commenting on final drafts. Students may schedule appointments online. Walk-in consultations may also be available, although online booking is the only way to guarantee an appointment. Although copyediting services are not available through the Writing Center, consultants are trained to suggest and demonstrate proofreading strategies. See the Student Guide to The University of Tulsa Writing Program, which is required in every writing course, for more information. McFarlin Library McFarlin Library, named in honor of the original donors, Mr. and Mrs. Robert McFarlin, serves as the academic heart of the University. Students at The University of Tulsa have direct access to the library’s holdings of more than three million items that include more than 54,000 electronic journals and over 400,000 electronic books. The library collection also includes digitized University of Tulsa dissertations and archival materials, and extensive collections of electronic reference sources and databases, as well as print resources such as books, serials, government documents, microform and maps. The library’s world-class Special Collections are available for graduate and undergraduate research and include extensive collections of manuscripts, historical archives, art objects, photographs and memorabilia in range of subjects that include Modernist literature, Native American history and the American West. Center for Global Engagement The University of Tulsa is committed to offering its undergraduate students an opportunity to acquire cross-cultural experience by spending a term studying, interning, or conducting research overseas. The Center for Global Engagement (CGE) has identified core international programs around the globe for students abroad for a summer, semester, or academic year. CGE also manages TU faculty-led courses abroad. CGE advisors can work one-on-one with TU students to find a program that meets their specific needs and goals. After meeting study abroad application requirements and with the approval of a student’s College, students may choose to take courses abroad which may satisfy major, minor, block, and elective credit and degree requirements. Students from all disciplines are encouraged to consider applying to participate in a program abroad. Federal financial aid and most TU-sponsored scholarships are portable on approved study abroad programs. A number of competitive study abroad scholarships are available. Students are encouraged to apply. For more details on TU’s programs abroad, visit the Center for Global Engagement. The Center for Global Engagement coordinates services for international students including undergraduate admission. It issues government immigration documents; supports, counsels, and advocates for students on academic and personal matters; works to ensure student retention; assists international faculty; and offers various programming activities throughout the year. All University of Tulsa students and faculty who are not U.S. citizens are required to register with this office. The Center for Global Engagement offers English language support and workshops on various topics. Students who participate have the opportunity to build connections with fellow students in an inviting and culturally diverse atmosphere. The Center for Global Engagement administers the interdisciplinary Global Scholars Program . The Center for Career Development and Professional Engagement The Center for Career Development and Professional Engagement offers a lifetime of career assistance to students and alumni of the University, starting the moment students enroll at TU. A qualified staff of career coaches helps students and alumni explore career options, develop professional skills, gain practical experience, and build connections in the TU community. In addition to individual support provided including career assessment tools, resume and cover letter review, interview preparation, and job search strategies, the Center hosts a wide variety of programming and networking events on career related topics. Also, the Center works directly with employers to post internship, experiential learning, and post-graduate job opportunities on Handshake, our online career services platform, as well as host career fairs and arrange on-campus interviews with our students and alumni. Please visit www.canecareers.com for more information. Financial Wellness The Financial Wellness Team provides financial counseling and education to all students at the University. The goal is to ensure that all students understand the investment required to successfully complete their education while planning for their future. The team provides students with the tools and resources they need to for financial growth and to achieve personal financial success. Financial Counselors understand the pressures associated with being a college student and are here to help students navigate such pressures in their lives. Counselors can assist students in understanding financial values and priorities and offer guidance towards financing education, managing student loan debt, budgeting, credit cards, credit building, car-buying, taxes and other personal finance topics. Health Services The Alexander Health Center (AHC) provides medical care to students. The AHC has the capability to perform routine lab work (including pregnancy and STI testing) onsite, immunizations (including the flu vaccine), allergy shots, well-woman exams, and health education. The AHC is staffed by a nurse practitioner as well as a caring team of staff and nurses. Office hours are Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (closed 12:00 p.m. to 1:00 p.m.). Students are encouraged to call the AHC at 918-631-2241 to schedule appointments. While the AHC does its best to accommodate the needs of all students, appointment times do fill up quickly. Careful adherence to the schedule is observed to ensure all students scheduled get adequate time with a provider to address their medical needs. Students should bring their identification and proof of insurance with them to their visit. The AHC does not provide in-house imaging. Students will be referred out for imaging studies (i.e. X-rays or CT scans), which will be followed up and addressed by the AHC care team. Referrals placed to specialty care may also sometimes be required. The AHC staff do their best to ensure that referrals are placed to an organization covered by the patient’s insurance. All costs incurred at outside facilities (co-pays, procedure fees, etc.), as well as the cost of prescription medications, are the responsibility of the student. For more information on the student health insurance requirement, see Insurance Requirements in the Tuition and Fees section of this Bulletin. Immunization Requirements. State law requires that all students who attend Oklahoma colleges and universities provide written documentation of immunization against hepatitis B and measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR). Students who reside in on-campus housing are also required to be immunized against meningococcal disease (meningitis). For more information on health services and immunization requirements, visit the AHC website. All contacts at the AHC are strictly confidential as protected by law and professional ethics. No information will be released without a separate written consent form signed by the patient. It is University policy that the AHC does not issue excuses from class for illness. This is a matter between the student and the professor. See the AHC Notification of Medical Illness Policy on the AHC website. Counseling and Psychological Services Located in the Holmes Student Center, Counseling and Psychological Services offers clinical services to all students and a broad range of professional, educational and consultative services to faculty and staff. We are trained to help college students adjust to the changes and transitions of college life as well as to help faculty and staff function more effectively in their roles. The staff is devoted to helping with any concerns that might require psychological assistance. Speech, Language, and Hearing Testing and Therapy The University’s program in speech-language pathology provides diagnostic testing in speech, language, and hearing along with therapy services for individuals of all ages. There is a fee for these services and university students and employees receive a 20% discount. Scholarships are also available by application. A free screening clinic is available at the Mary K. Chapman Speech and Hearing Clinic on Fridays, by appointment, to determine if a significant communication problem exists. Although these screenings do not include detailed diagnostic or therapy services, they do include appropriate counseling, recommendations, and referrals. Call the clinic at 918-631-2504 for information. Student Life Student Life provides programs to enhance academic endeavors and leadership skills, counsels individual students regarding their problems, offer support and guidance to student organizations, and provide over 150 extracurricular and co-curricular activities that broaden students’ educational experiences. This office balances student care with accountability by handling student disciplinary matters, providing student complaint investigations, administering the alcohol policy, housing the ombudsman, and coordinating conduct adjudication. Student Organizations Student Organizations serves as a resource for student leaders, programming boards, and over 150 student organizations by fostering opportunities for learning and success through holistic advising and training of student leaders, operational support services, co-curricular program creation and development of purposeful and mutually beneficial partnerships across the University and the city of Tulsa. As the engagement hub on campus, students are empowered to participate in a diverse array of campus programs and organizational activities that encourage self-discovery, critical thought, peer connections, and the pursuit of personal passions. Campus Recreation and Intramural Sports The Collins Fitness Center and its trained staff serve the university community by providing a diverse selection of recreational opportunities which are designed to promote and develop healthy lifestyles and lifelong well-being. Fitness programs include group fitness, personal training, and fitness assessment services to provide guidance and evaluation to reach individual goals. Intramural Sports provides students, faculty, and staff the opportunity for competition and fun in a variety of team and individual sports activities. True Blue Neighbors At the core of True Blue Neighbors lies extraordinary leadership, and exceptional students, staff and faculty who are committed to our great mission: “To build a better community, a better citizen, and a better University, through service.” Volunteers serve over 200 nonprofit organizations, churches, schools, and local municipal and government agencies completing thousands of hours every year. Community service and engagement continues to be an integral component of what being a Hurricane means, as well as a point of pride for our students, staff, and faculty members. Members of the TU community may register to volunteer here. Sorority and Fraternity Life Sorority and fraternities are values-based organizations formed around common goals and aspirations. Scholarship, service, friendship, cultural appreciation, and leadership are the common fraternal principles founded by each of our Greek-lettered organizations. These organizations play an important role on the University of Tulsa campus and in the Tulsa community. Sorority and Fraternity Life provides opportunities for participation in programs that will enhance personal development, promote academics, and advance leadership skills. Student Association At TU, students are given numerous opportunities to shape their experiences and contribute to important decisions facing the University. Undergraduate students are invited to sharpen their leadership skills, learn about themselves and others, and broaden their horizons by running for an elected office, seeking an appointed position, or establishing a new organization. Student Association (SA) strives to create and promote intellectual, social, and cultural opportunities, to act as a catalyst for change within the university, and to advocate for the interests of the student body. All students at the University of Tulsa are members of SA. SA Senate is responsible for chartering student organizations, allocating funds, overseeing operational guidelines, and providing resources. Senators represent constituents from various student populations and serve on the student organization, government operations, university improvement, or financial advisory committee. SA Cabinet facilitates a variety of events and programs focused on TU traditions, arts & entertainment, service, leadership, multiculturalism, and awareness. Some examples include Homecoming, Springfest, Grad Party, Pride Month and TU Leadership Experience. Stay connected at @utulsa_sa. New Student Programs and New Student Orientation StartTU Orientation is designed to help new students form new and lasting relationships with faculty, staff and their fellow students; provide an opportunity to become integrated into the TU campus and community; and learn valuable academic skills that will enhance their academic career. The new student orientation program, which occurs the week before fall classes begin, includes programs (educational sessions and a variety of social activities) led by Peer Mentors. Peer Mentors will provide guidance and support to students throughout their first year at TU. Multicultural Student Programs The Office of Multicultural Student Programs provides individual counseling and support for African, Asian, Hispanic, Native American, bisexual, gay, lesbian, and transgender students; advises student organizations related to these cultural groups; encourages involvement of students in these groups in all aspects of University life; and provides cross-cultural activities to promote understanding among students of all groups. Multicultural Student Programs include academic study groups, peer mentoring, and a wide variety of celebrations, seminars, and activities that focus on different cultures. Residence Life Coordinators Live-in professional staff members work with student hall governments and staff to schedule programs and activities each semester and are available for general information, counseling, and referral assistance. Office of Research and Sponsored Programs The Office of Research and Sponsored Programs (ORSP) is responsible for the administration of all externally-funded research and sponsored program activity. Faculty, students, and staff at The University of Tulsa engage in a wide variety of research activities, participating in both externally-funded and University-funded scholarship. ORSP subscribes to a service which provides assistance in identifying sources of external support. In addition, ORSP provides information on program guidelines, assists in proposal development, and administers grants and contracts once they have been funded. ORSP also has programs to provide internal funding to faculty and students. As a federally funded research institution, TU must comply with federal regulations regarding the conduct of research. For example, any research project involving human subjects must be submitted to ORSP for approval by the Institutional Review Board (IRB). When animals are to be used in research, prior approval must be obtained from the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). A listing of many of these compliance issues may be found on the ORSP website along with further guidance on internal funding opportunities and services provided by ORSP. Information Technology The Information Technology (IT) department provides all students, staff and faculty with an individual TUNetID that gives access to such services as high speed internet, the wireless network, the intranet portal, email, and file storage. Residential students have access to wireless connectivity in University-owned apartments and residence halls. For a complete overview of IT supported services at the University, visit the IT webpage. IT maintains computer labs at the Pauline M. Walter Academic Technology Center located in McFarlin Library. These labs are open 24 hours a day while classes are in session. The labs support high speed printers and an extensive array of software to facilitate teaching, learning, and research. The University of Tulsa also maintains numerous specialized teaching labs located across the campus. For admitted and enrolled students, information technology help may be obtained by visiting the IT webpage. The page contains helpful information on user account setup and reset. Personal assistance may be obtained by emailing it-desk@utulsa.edu. IT service is available Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Graduate Programs Through its Graduate School, The University of Tulsa offers more than 45 master’s and 14 doctoral programs in a variety of disciplines in the arts, humanities, business, sciences, and engineering, and cooperates with the College of Law in offering several joint J.D./master’s degrees. Accelerated master’s degree programs are available in select academic programs. These accelerated degree programs offer undergraduates the opportunity to begin taking graduate courses while finishing an undergraduate degree and completing a master’s degree in as little as one year of study beyond the bachelor’s degree. The University’s graduate programs, which enroll more than 700 students, are described in the Graduate Bulletin. Although graduate work is not offered in every discipline, graduate education at The University of Tulsa strengthens the undergraduate mission in several ways. It enables the University to recruit and retain faculty with distinguished records of scholarship. All members of the graduate faculty teach undergraduates and participate in undergraduate curriculum design. Graduate assistants help provide a research environment that allows the faculty to go forward with their scholarship and often to include undergraduates in selected research projects. Graduate teaching assistants enable the University to offer many small, high quality courses across campus. Graduate assistants in the Writing Center, the Mathematics Lab, and other areas provide undergraduates with individualized tutorial assistance. Finally, the presence of graduate programs compels greater breadth and depth of the library resources, computer facilities, and scientific instrumentation used by undergraduates. Students, in conjunction with the Graduate School, organize an annual Student Research Colloquium. This is held during the spring semester to give students additional public speaking experience and to encourage their research endeavors. The students’ presentations are judged according to criteria that are commonly used at scholarly professional meetings. The winners are announced and cash awards are presented at a Student Research Colloquium Awards Banquet. University School The University School at The University of Tulsa was established to offer the city of Tulsa and the state of Oklahoma leadership and service in the field of gifted education. The mission of the school is to serve as a national model of excellence in pre-college education for students with high academic potential. A by-product of this service and leadership has been local, national, and international recognition for The University of Tulsa. Paralleling the goals of The University of Tulsa to provide excellence in education for academically able adults, the University School serves as a model of excellence in education for academically able children. In 2014, the University School was designated a Confucius Classroom for its exemplary Chinese language program. The University of Tulsa provides University School as a service to the community to demonstrate the high value it places on academic excellence and to provide an alternative educational option for gifted children. All students from three-year-olds through eighth-graders study music, Spanish, Chinese, art, math, computers, physical education, library, language arts, and social studies. There is a very low pupil-to-teacher ratio, about 40 adults for 235 students. Gilcrease Museum: An American Experience In October, 2007, the City of Tulsa and TU agreed to an historic public-private partnership under which TU manages operations at The Thomas Gilcrease Institute of American History and Art, commonly known as the Gilcrease Museum, one of the country’s best facilities for the preservation and study of American art and history. The museum houses the world’s largest, most comprehensive collection of art and artifacts of the American West, including an unparalleled collection of Native American art and material. The partnership, which formally began on July 1, 2008, has resulted in numerous strategic opportunities for the museum, including streamlining its management structure, advancing and preserving the collection, and providing unparalleled opportunities for academic research of the museum’s extensive holdings. The Gilcrease partnership allows TU to leverage its nationally recognized academic resources in western American history, art history, anthropology, and archaeology to create a better understanding of the museum collection. The Helmerich Center for American Research, which opened in 2014, enhances scholarly opportunities at the Gilcrease Museum. Honor Societies The University of Tulsa supports chapters of national honor societies. Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest American honorary society, founded at the College of William and Mary in 1776. The University of Tulsa chapter, Beta of Oklahoma, was chartered in 1989. The chapter annually elects to membership students with exceptionally strong records in the liberal arts and sciences. Election to membership in Phi Beta Kappa is one of the highest academic honors and is almost universally regarded as evidence of superior scholarly attainment. Candidates for membership must be in their junior or senior year, must have attended The University of Tulsa for a minimum of three semesters of full-time work, and must be enrolled in a fourth semester of full-time work at TU. In addition, students must have taken at least 90 hours of liberal arts courses (other than professional and applied courses), demonstrating breadth as well as depth of course study. Other factors influencing selection into membership include a high grade point average, two years of a foreign language and a minimum math requirement of MATH 1243 Applied Calculus , or two courses consisting of MATH 1163 Pre-calculus Mathematics and another math or statistics course at an equivalent level of difficulty. The culmination of the year’s activities is the annual Initiation Ceremony, normally held the evening before spring commencement. During this ceremony new student members (“Members in Course”) and distinguished Alumni/ae and Honorary Members are inducted in a formal and memorable ceremony that publicly recognizes and honors each inductee. For additional information, contact Dr. Jennifer Airey. Phi Kappa Phi was founded in 1897 as the Lambda Sigma Eta Society at the University of Maine. In 1900, the society added chapters at the Pennsylvania State College (now Pennsylvania State University) and the University of Tennessee and was renamed Phi Kappa Phi. The University of Tulsa chapter, chartered in 1990, is one of over 250 chapters in the United States. Phi Kappa Phi elects members from all recognized branches of academic endeavor. Members are selected on the basis of high academic achievement and good character. Juniors must have completed at least 72 credit hours, with at least 24 semester hours at their current institution, and rank in the top 7.5 percent of their class. Seniors must have completed at least 90 credit hours, with at least 24 semester hours at their current institution, and rank in the top 10 percent of their class. Graduate students must have completed at least 18 graduate hours or the equivalent at their institution and rank in the top 10 percent of their class. Faculty, professional staff and alumni who achieve scholarly distinction may also be eligible. For additional information, contact Dr. Mark Buchheim. TU students may also join honor societies for specific fields of study, class or other criteria. A partial list may be found here. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All bulletins © 2022 University of Tulsa. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).