Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management / Sport Business, M.S. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Hospitality Management, M.S. Sport Business, M.S. Sport Business Executive Program, M.S. Travel and Tourism, M.S. Graduate Certificate: Destination Management Graduate Certificate: Event Management Graduate Certificate: Global Tourism Graduate Certificate: Service Excellence Graduate Certificate: Tourism Analytics Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Sport Business, M.S. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts SCHOOL OF SPORT, TOURISM AND HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT About the Program The goal of the Master of Science in Sport Business program is to prepare future leaders in the areas of policymaking, management, supervision, education, and research. The program provides for the analysis of current trends, problems, and policies that affect sport and leisure services. Designed to provide a multifaceted approach to the study of sport business, the program is structured to prepare students for a wide range of career opportunities in athletic administration, marketing and promotions, recreation and event management, and sport analytics. Students interested in studying at the doctoral level should refer to the Ph.D. program in Business Administration with a concentration in Tourism and Sport offered by Fox School of Business and Management. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 4 years Campus Location: Main, with business electives offered at the Center City campus or online Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The degree program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis. Study Abroad: Students who wish to do their internships abroad work closely with the Center for Student Professional Development, which assists with the necessary contacts and supervision. Areas of Specialization: Four areas of concentration are offered: Athletics Administration Recreation and Event Management Sport Analytics Sport Marketing and Promotions Job Prospects: Students typically find placement in campus recreation, college athletics, parks and recreation, professional sports, sport governing bodies, stadium and arena management, and youth sport. Financing Opportunities: Students are automatically considered for merit scholarships from the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management (STHM) at the time of admission. Scholarships are awarded on the basis of a student’s academic history and professional experience. Teaching and Research Assistantships within STHM are reserved for students who are capable of teaching undergraduate classes in specialized academic areas or assisting in faculty research. Graduate Externships are also available in a variety of areas around the university. Only admitted students may be awarded assistantships and externships. Teaching Assistants (TAs), Research Assistants (RAs), and Graduate Externs (GEs) are expected to provide between 5 and 20 hours per week of service throughout the academic year. A nine-month stipend and partial or full (up to 9 credits) tuition remission for the Fall and Spring terms are offered for TAs and RAs, depending on the number of hours worked. GEs receive a stipend only. Applications for assistantships and externships are not evaluated until a Graduate School application and all appropriate materials have been received. The evaluation of applicants for Teaching and Research Assistantships and Graduate Externships begins by March and continues until all positions have been filled. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: December 15 – Early Admissions Deadline March 1 – Priority Scholarship Deadline and International Deadline June 30 – Final Application Deadline Applications are processed as they arrive through the deadline. Late applications may be considered for admission if space is available. APPLY ONLINE to this STHM graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 2 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members familiar with academic competence and/or past or current work supervisors. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: All applicants must present credentials that are the equivalent of the appropriate baccalaureate degree at Temple University. Statement of Goals: In 500 words or less, describe your short-term and long-term professional goals. Explain how this program will help you attain those goals. Standardized Test Scores: GRE/GMAT: Required. Individuals may qualify for a GRE/GMAT waiver based on academic or professional history. Consult an admissions advisor with any questions. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 Duolingo: 110 PTE Academic: 68 Resume: Current resume or CV required. Transfer Credit: Graduate credits from an accredited institution may be transferred into the program. The credits must be equivalent to coursework offered in the Master of Science in Sport Business and cannot have been used to complete another degree either at Temple University or another institution. The grade must be a "B" (3.0 GPA) or better in order to transfer. The maximum number of credits a student may transfer is 6. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required Beyond the Baccalaureate: 36 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses SRM 5201 Sport Finance 3 SRM 5202 Sport Economics 3 SRM 5212 Legal Issues in Sport and Recreation 3 SRM 5215 Sport Marketing 3 SRM 5216 Strategic Management in Sport and Recreation 3 SRM 5218 Equity, Inclusion, and Ethics in Sport Business 3 Fox School of Business and Management Courses STAT 5001 Quantitative Methods for Business 3 or STHM 5111 Applied Research Sport Business Electives Select courses totaling 12 credits from the following: 1 12 Athletics Administration Concentration SRM 5217 Sport Facility Management SRM 5225 Sport Sponsorship and Sales or SRM 5232 Fundraising and Development SRM 5231 Compliance in Intercollegiate Athletics SRM 5233 Governance and Policy in Intercollegiate Athletics SRM 5234 Student-Athlete Affairs in Intercollegiate Athletics SRM Elective 2 Recreation and Event Management Concentration SRM 5217 Sport Facility Management SRM 5232 Fundraising and Development SRM 5235 The Business of Recreation SRM 5241 Evaluation of Programs and Events SRM 5242 Business of Non-Profit Organizations SRM 5243 Event Management SRM 5252 Sport for Development SRM Elective 2 Sport Analytics Concentration SRM 5251 Introduction to Sport Analytics SRM 5253 Applied Sport Analytics SRM 5254 Advanced Sport Data Analysis and Visualization SRM 5256 Professional Portfolio in Sport Analytics Sport Marketing and Promotions Concentration SRM 5225 Sport Sponsorship and Sales SRM 5226 Consumer Behavior in Sport and Recreation SRM 5227 Sport Media and Communication SRM Elective 2 Capstone Course 3 Select one from the following: SRM 5285 Graduate Internship in Sport and Recreation STHM 9995 Master's Project STHM 9996 Master's Thesis Total Credit Hours 36 1 Students may take 12 credits in any combination from the concentration courses identified. However, to have a concentration designated on their transcript, students must declare a concentration with the Academic Director and complete each course listed for that declared concentration. 2 Any SRM course at or above the 5000 level is considered an elective. Culminating Event: Students select a capstone course to complete the M.S. in Sport Business. As best fits their individualized program, they choose from SRM 5285 Graduate Internship in Sport and Recreation, STHM 9995 Master's Project, and STHM 9996 Master's Thesis: SRM 5285 utilizes a field placement with emphasis on acquisition and application of practical skills. The student completes a total of 180 contact hours in cooperation with an agency and under supervision of both the University internship coordinator and the agency-designated supervisor. STHM 9995 is an option for students who do not need to undertake an internship. Students currently working in the field who seek a master’s degree to gain a promotion should not be required to find additional work outside their active employment to complete an internship. Instead, such students can complete a project related to their specific field of interest. STHM 9996 is also offered as an option for any student who may opt to write a thesis, for example, in anticipation of pursuit of a doctoral degree. Contacts Program Web Address: https://sthm.temple.edu/graduate-programs/master-of-science-in-sport-business/ Department Information: School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management 111 Speakman Hall 1810 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6083 sthm@temple.edu 215-204-8701 Submission Address for Application Materials: https://foxgraduate.force.com/ERx_Forms__Portal_Login?type=sthm Department Contacts: Assistant Director of Graduate Enrollment: Michelle Siporin michelle.siporin@temple.edu 215-204-8701 Manager of Student Services: James Alton, M.S.Ed. james.alton@temple.edu 215-204-7140 Academic Director: Amy Giddings, Ph.D. giddings@temple.edu 215-204-4398 Chairperson: Daniel Funk, Ph.D. Department of Sport and Recreation Management dfunk@temple.edu 215-204-1972 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel