Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / Tyler School of Art and Architecture / Fibers and Materials Studies, M.F.A. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Architecture, M.Arch. Architecture, M.S. Art Education, M.Ed. Art History, M.A. Art History, Ph.D. Ceramics, M.F.A. City and Regional Planning, M.S. Facilities Planning, M.S. Fibers and Materials Studies, M.F.A. Glass, M.F.A. Graphic and Interactive Design, M.F.A. Landscape Architecture, M.L.Arch. Metals/Jewelry/CAD-CAM, M.F.A. Painting, M.F.A. Photography, M.F.A. Printmaking, M.F.A. Sculpture, M.F.A. Graduate Certificate: Community Arts Practices Graduate Certificate: Health Facilities Planning Graduate Certificate: Sustainable Community Planning Graduate Certificate: Teaching Art Education Graduate Certificate: Transportation Planning Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Fibers and Materials Studies, M.F.A. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts TYLER SCHOOL OF ART AND ARCHITECTURE About the Program The Fibers and Materials Studies program at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture is a two-year, 60-credit program leading to the Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.) degree that pushes students to refine their aesthetic and embrace a broad definition of material exploration in relation to relevant global issues. Under the mentorship of an influential and diverse faculty and visiting artists on the cutting-edge of creative practice and critical inquiry, students find a compassionate, inclusive environment primed for experimentation, interdisciplinary collaboration, and independent study. Students have unlimited access to Tyler’s state-of-the-art equipment and the abundant resources of Temple, a large public research university, to drive their research-based concepts. Fibers and Materials Studies M.F.A. students also collaborate across the school through projects like Tyler’s Natural Dye Garden, as well as leverage Philadelphia’s landscape and vibrant DIY art scene to conduct community-based projects; study social and political issues; and examine the relationship between materials, processes, and concepts. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 4 years Campus Location: Main Full-Time/Part-Time Status: Full-time status is required. Interdisciplinary Study: The Fibers and Materials Studies curriculum embraces material exploration—from community-based projects to experimental performance, sound, and video—in relation to issues surrounding identity, power, sustainability, and more. Through Art History classes, electives, and seminars, students are engaged in emerging topics in the field and the broader art world. Influential visiting artists and programs are matched to each cohort to accelerate their growth. Study Abroad: Many Tyler M.F.A. students choose to pursue summer study abroad opportunities at Temple University Rome, a home base for immersive artistic, academic, and cultural exploration for Tyler students since 1966. Historically, students who have immersed themselves in interdisciplinary thought and practice abroad have returned with their focused work strengthened. Accreditation: This degree program is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD). Areas of Specialization: In the Fibers program, equipment is available for traditional and contemporary techniques, including new technologies that allow the development of surface imagery with photographic stencils, as well as the creation of weave structures on a Jacquard Loom TC2. Students are encouraged to experiment with the materials, techniques, and concepts previously developed in their work. Job Prospects: A Tyler Fibers and Materials Studies M.F.A. degree prepares graduates for a rigorous studio practice and develops their aptitude to teach at leading institutions. Graduates are prepared for careers as professional artists, craftspersons, designers, and educators. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: M.F.A. courses are restricted to matriculated students. Financing Opportunities: In addition to federal student aid, teaching assistantships and fellowships are available on a competitive basis to support Tyler M.F.A. students. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: January 6 All applications are evaluated together after the deadline date. APPLY ONLINE to this graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 3 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members, gallery directors, and/or curators familiar with the applicant's academic and artistic competence. The letters should be submitted with the application at https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/, along with the statement of goals and resume. Coursework Required for Admission Consideration: 40 undergraduate studio credits and 12 art history credits are required. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: A baccalaureate degree and a portfolio specific to Fibers and Materials Studies are required. Official transcripts from all universities/colleges attended, whether or not a degree was awarded, must be sent to the Tyler School of Art and Architecture, Graduate Admissions Office, 2001 N. 13th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016. Statement of Goals: Approximately 500 to 1,000 words include your specific interest in Tyler's program, your research goals, your future career goals, and your academic and artistic achievements. Standardized Test Scores: Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 PTE Academic: 53 Portfolio: As a Master of Fine Arts applicant, you must submit a portfolio that consists of 20 images representative of the immediate direction of your work. Portfolios are to be uploaded at https://temple.slideroom.com, as instructed at the website. SlideRoom requires an additional fee for this service. Original work, slides, CD-ROMs, catalogs, photographs, books, and/or binders are not acceptable substitutes for the SlideRoom portfolio and will not be reviewed or returned. Resume: Current resume required. Transfer Credit: Upon approval of the Department Coordinator, the student's advisor, and the Vice Dean, up to 9 credits of graduate work completed at Temple University within a five-year period may be transferred into the program. Up to 6 credits of graduate coursework taken at other accredited institutions within the prior five years before matriculation may be considered for transfer into the program after the student has enrolled. No decisions are made until students have successfully completed 15 matriculated credits at Tyler. The maximum number of credits a student may transfer is 9. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required to Earn the Degree: 60 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Project and Seminar Courses ART 8004 Critique and Critical Discourse I (2 terms) 6 ART 8005 Critique and Critical Discourse II (2 terms) 6 ART 8201/8202 Graduate Projects, Fibers (4 terms) 1 12 ART 9991 Directed Studio Practice (3 terms) 9 Art History Courses 2 9 Electives 3 15 Culminating Course ART 9995 Master of Fine Arts Thesis 3 Total Credit Hours 60 1 Courses are sequenced to be taken in the Fall and Spring terms. The sequence is repeated a second year for a total of four courses taken over four terms. 2 Students select three courses in Art History at the 5000 level or above. Of these, ARTH 8402 Introduction to Critical Thinking and Practice is required, as is one Art History Seminar. Students may choose from the full range of graduate ARTH offerings for their third course. 3 Students must earn 3 credits in a studio elective and 3 credits in a professional practice experience course. Professional practice courses are offered in a range of fields such as Arts Management, Community Arts, and Teaching in Higher Education. The professional practice requirement may also be fulfilled by other courses with the approval of the Graduate Director. For the remaining 9 credits of electives, students complete coursework within the Tyler School of Art and Architecture. Students may enroll in courses in other Temple University schools and colleges, provided that coursework complements a particular research interest and has been preapproved by their advisor and the Graduate Director. Culminating Events: Thesis Exhibition: An approved thesis exhibition, written statement of working philosophy, and slide and/or CD portfolio are required at the final review in order to meet the M.F.A. requirements. The thesis exhibition should be the fruit of the two years' studio research and practice in which the student engaged. The student defends her/his thesis exhibition to the review committee. The committee then evaluates the exhibition as pass with distinction, pass, or fail. Contacts Program Web Address: https://tyler.temple.edu/programs/fibers-material-studies Department Information: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 tyleradmissions@temple.edu 215-777-9090 Mailing Address for Official Transcripts: Tyler School of Art and Architecture Graduate Admissions Office 2001 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6016 Submission Address for Portfolio: https://temple.slideroom.com/ Submission Address for All Other Application Materials: https://apply.temple.edu/Tyler/ Department Contacts: M.F.A. Program Director: Jesse Harrod jesseharrod@gmail.com 215-777-9023 Art Department Chairperson: Gerard Brown gbrown@temple.edu 215-777-9713 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel