Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Undergraduate / Schools, Colleges, and Divisions / Fox School of Business and Management / All Business Minors & Certificates / Legal Studies Minor Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate About This Bulletin Academic Calendar About Temple University Academic Policies Campuses Tuition and Fees Student Financial Aid Academic Programs General Education Intercollegial Programs Temple University, Japan Campus Schools, Colleges, and Divisions Tyler School of Art & Architecture Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts Boyer College of Music & Dance School of Theater, Film and Media Arts College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Fox School of Business and Management All Business Minors & Certificates Legal Studies Minor Accounting Actuarial Science Business Management Economics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Management Finance Financial Planning Human Resource Management International Business Legal Studies Management Information Systems Marketing Real Estate Risk Management & Insurance Statistical Science and Data Analytics Supply Chain Management College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication College of Public Health School of Social Work College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management University College Division of University Studies Course Descriptions Graduate and Professional Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Legal Studies Minor Open to all students, with the exception of Legal Studies majors. Designed to expose students to a curriculum in legal studies, particularly students majoring in other disciplines such as accounting, risk management or finance who are considering law school. Students will learn how to read cases and statutes, do legal research and make a legal argument as well as identify the legal issues that will impact their business and personal decisions. All students are required to take the prerequisite course LGLS 1101, which is a lower division Fox School foundation. Five courses are required: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Prerequisite Course LGLS 1101 Legal Environment of Business 3 Required Courses LGLS 1112 Law for Business 1 3 LGLS 3562 Legal Aspects of Global Business 3 Electives Select two of the following: 6 LGLS 3504 Sports and the Law LGLS 3509 Entertainment Law LGLS 3511 Environmental Law and Sustainability LGLS 3521 Corporate Governance LGLS 3522 Technology, Privacy and Intellectual Property Law LGLS 3523 Detecting Financial Crimes LGLS 3524 Legal and Policy Issues in the Workplace LGLS 3580 Special Topics - Law LGLS 3581 Pre-Law Internship and Seminar LGLS 3582 Independent Study RE 3501 Real Estate Fundamentals RE 3502 Real Estate Practice Total Credit Hours 15 1 LGLS 1102 completed prior to Spring 2016 may be used to fulfill LGLS 1112. Three of the four courses required for the minor must be taken at Temple University. Residency excludes LGLS 1101. A grade point average of 2.0 in the minor is required as well as a minimum grade of C- in each course unless otherwise specified. Courses cannot be used to meet minor requirements if already used to meet the requirements for a major or a different minor or certificate. Courses for the minor must be completed prior to graduation; if completed, the minor will be recorded on the final transcript upon graduation. To declare or rescind this minor, visit the Fox School of Business and Management. Interested students should discuss with their home college advisors how the courses in the minor will fit into their overall degree plan and are strongly encouraged to declare the minor early in their academic career. Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel