Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home Columbia College Toggle Navigation About the College Mission History News and Updates Strategic Plan Annual Report Events Columbia to the Core Dean of the College Visit Columbia College Staff & Administration The Core Curriculum Contemporary Civilization Literature Humanities Art Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Frontiers of Science Global Core Requirement Center for the Core Curriculum Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Majors, Concentrations, and Programs of Study Departments, Institutes and Centers Academic Advising Resources Fellowships Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Academic Honors, Awards, and Prizes Policies and Procedures Academic Integrity Academic Planning and Administration Admissions Financial Aid Learn About Columbia Visit Columbia Apply to Columbia Campus Life Undergraduate Student Life Student Resources Supporting the College More Faculty Parents Alumni Search Bulletin 2021-22 Bulletin Home / Columbia College Bulletin / Departments, Programs, and Courses / Sustainable Development Print Options Toggle Navigation Toggle Navigation The Administration and Faculty of Columbia College Academic Requirements Core Curriculum Departments, Programs, and Courses Search the Course Listings African American and African Diaspora Studies American Studies Ancient Studies Anthropology Archaeology Architecture Art History and Archaeology Astronomy Biological Sciences Business Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Colloquia, Interdepartmental Seminars, and Professional School Offerings Comparative Literature and Society Computer Science Creative Writing Dance Drama and Theatre Arts Earth and Environmental Sciences East Asian Languages and Cultures Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Economics Education English and Comparative Literature Ethnicity and Race Studies Film and Media Studies French and Romance Philology Germanic Languages History History and Philosophy of Science Human Rights Italian Jazz Studies Jewish Studies Language Resource Center Latin American and Caribbean Studies Latin American and Iberian Cultures Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies Music Philosophy Physical Education and Intercollegiate Athletics Physics Political Science Psychology Public Health Regional Studies Religion Slavic Languages Sociology Statistics Sustainable Development Urban Studies Visual Arts Women's and Gender Studies Academic Calendar Registration Academic Regulations Study Abroad Special Programs Academic Honors, Prizes, and Fellowships Standards and Discipline Columbia University Policies Admission Fees, Expenses, and Financial Aid Sustainable Development Overview Faculty Requirements Courses Departmental Office: The Earth Institute, Office of Academic and Research Programs, Hogan, B-Level; http://sdev.ei.columbia.edu Co-Directors of Undergraduate Studies: Ruth DeFries, 212-851-1647; rd2402@columbia.edu Jason Smerdon, 845-365-8493; jsmerdon@ldeo.columbia.edu Program Administrators: Natalie Unwin-Kuruneri, 212-854-8536; natalie@ei.columbia.edu Sylvia Montijo, sm4084@columbia.edu Sustainable development is founded on the premise that human well-being should advance without irreparable harm to ecosystems and the vital services they provide, without depleting essential resources, and without posing risks to future generations. The term "sustainable" refers to managing the world's economy in a manner consistent with the continued healthy functioning of Earth's ecosystems, oceans, atmosphere and climate. In this context, "development" refers to continued social, political, and economic progress aimed at improving the well-being of the global community, especially for the poorest people. Academic Programs The Earth Institute—in collaboration with Columbia College, the School of General Studies, the School of International and Public Affairs, and the Departments of Earth and Environmental Science; Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology; and Earth and Environmental Engineering—offers a major and a special concentration in sustainable development. These programs are designed to: engage students in this emergent interdisciplinary discussion, provide knowledge of the theory and practice of sustainable development, stimulate a critical examination of historical and conceptual antecedents, provide experience in the complex challenges of sustainable development through direct engagement, and help them imagine alternative futures for our rapidly changing world. With help from the Earth Institute faculty, courses are specifically created to address the very real and complex issues of development as they relate to the interactions of the natural and social systems. The major focuses heavily on the sciences and provides students with a working knowledge of issues on a range of interacting subject areas. After declaring the major, students are assigned an academic adviser from within the Earth Institute, who advises on class selection and career development. Students benefit from a support system of faculty, advisers, and program managers, and have access to the multitude of resources for internships, study abroad programs, and career development. The special concentration is intentionally more flexible, but its structure allows students to benefit from the cross-disciplinary courses and to build the expertise to allow them to address the fundamental issue of how to move towards a trajectory of sustainability. The sustainable development program is structured to ensure that students graduate with the skills and knowledge to enable them to advance professionally in the public, private, governmental, and nonprofit sectors, and to pursue advanced degrees. Those interested in sustainable development are encouraged to participate in lectures, conferences, and other programs sponsored by the Earth Institute. Grading A letter grade of C- or better is needed in all program-related courses in order to satisfy the program requirements. Sustainable Development Faculty Susana Adamo (Center for International Earth Information Network) Satyajit Bose (School of International and Public Affairs) Steve Cohen (The Earth Institute; School of International and Public Affairs) Lisa Dale (The Earth Institute; Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology) Ruth DeFries (Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology) (Co-Director) Paul Gallay (Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology) Francesco Fiondella (International Research Institute for Climate and Society) Michael Gerrard (Center for Climate Change Law and Columbia Law School) Adela Gondek (Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology) Radley Horton (Center for Climate Systems Research) Joyce Klein-Rosenthal (The Earth Institute) Jacqueline Klopp (The Earth Institute) Upmanu Lall (Columbia Water Center; International Research Institute for Climate and Society) Kytt McManus (Center for International Earth Science Information Network) Rachel Moresky (Population and Family Health) John Mutter (Earth and Environmental Sciences; School of International and Public Affairs) Linda Pistolesi (Center for International Earth Science Information Network) Jason Smerdon (Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory) (Co-Director) Martin Stute (Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory) Phil Weinberg (Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology) Major in Sustainable Development The sustainable development foundation courses should be taken first and students should then work with the program adviser on further course selection and sequencing. The major in sustainable development requires a minimum of 15 courses and a practicum as follows: Course List Code Title Points Sustainable Development Foundation SDEV UN1900 Introduction to Sustainable Development Seminar SDEV UN2300 Challenges of Sustainable Development EESC UN2330 SCIENCE FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVPT Basic Disciplinary Foundation Select one of the following science sequences. CHEM UN1403 - CHEM UN1404 GENERAL CHEMISTRY I-LECTURES and GENERAL CHEMISTRY II-LECTURES EEEB UN2001 - EEEB UN2002 Environmental Biology I: Elements to Organisms and Environmental Biology II: Organisms to the Biosphere (EESC UN2310 is a co-requisite with EEEB UN2002) EESC UN1600 - EESC UN2100 Earth Resources and Sustainable Development and Earth's Environmental Systems: The Climate System EESC UN1600 - EESC UN2200 Earth Resources and Sustainable Development and EARTH'S ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS: THE SOLID EARTH EESC UN1600 - EESC UN2300 Earth Resources and Sustainable Development and Earth's Environmental Systems: The Life System (EESC UN2310 is co-requisite with EESC UN2300) EESC UN2100 - EESC UN2200 Earth's Environmental Systems: The Climate System and EARTH'S ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS: THE SOLID EARTH EESC UN2100 - EESC UN2300 Earth's Environmental Systems: The Climate System and Earth's Environmental Systems: The Life System (EESC UN2310 is co-requisite with EESC UN2300) EESC UN2200 - EESC UN2300 EARTH'S ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS: THE SOLID EARTH and Earth's Environmental Systems: The Life System (EESC UN2310 is co-requisite with EESC UN2300) PHYS UN1201 - PHYS UN1202 General Physics I and General Physics II (LABS PHYS 1291 and PHYS 1292 also required) Select two of the following social science courses: ANTH UN1002 The Interpretation of Culture ANTH UN2004 INTRO TO SOC ＆ CULTURAL THEORY ANTH BC2427 ANTHROPOLOGY OF CLIMATE CHANGE ECON UN1105 Principles of Economics HIST UN2222 NATURE ＆ POWER: ENV HIST NORTH AMERICA POLS UN1201 INTRO TO AMERICAN POLITICS (Students can take POLS 1201 or SDEV 2050) POLS UN1501 Introduction to Comparative Politics (Students can take POLS 1501 OR POLS 1601) POLS UN1601 INTERNATIONAL POLITICS SDEV UN2000 Introduction to Environmental Law SDEV UN2050 Environmental Policy and Governance SDEV UN3400 Human Populations and Sustainable Development SOCI UN1000 THE SOCIAL WORLD Select one of the following quantitative foundations courses: EEEB UN3005 Introduction to Statistics for Ecology and Evolutionary Biology EESC BC3017 Environmental Data Analysis STAT UN1201 Calculus-Based Introduction to Statistics MATH UN2015 Linear Algebra and Probability (This course is approved as a quantitative foundations course starting Fall 2022. This course replaces MATH UN2010 Linear Algebra as an option for this requirement.) STAT UN2103 APPLIED LINEAR REG ANALYSIS STAT UN3105 Applied Statistical Methods STAT UN3106 APPLIED MACHINE LEARNING STAT GU4203 PROBABILITY THEORY STAT GU4204 Statistical Inference STAT GU4205 Linear Regression Models STAT GU4207 Elementary Stochastic Processes Analysis and Solutions to Complex Problems Select two of the following courses: ANTH BC3932 Climate Change, Global Migration, and Human Rights in the Anthropocene CIEE E3260 ENGINEERING FOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT EAEE W4304 Closing the carbon cycle ECIA W4100 MGMT ＆ DEVPT OF WATER SYSTEMS EESC BC3032 Agricultural and Urban Land Use: Human-Environment Interactions EESC GU4600 EARTH RESOURCES ＆ SUSTAIN DEV HIST GU4811 Encounters with Nature: The History of Environment and Health in South Asia and Beyond PUBH UN3100 FUNDAMENTALS OF GLOBAL HEALTH PUBH GU4200 Environment, Health, and Justice: Concepts and Practice SDEV UN3330 Ecological and Social Systems for Sustainable Development SDEV UN3355 Climate Change and Law SDEV UN3360 Disasters and Development SDEV UN3366 Energy Law SDEV UN3410 Cities ＆ Sustainability URBS UN3565 Cities in Developing Countries: Problems and Prospects SDEV GU4250 CLIMATE CHANGE: RESILIENCE ＆ ADAPTATION The Summer Ecosystems Experience for Undergraduates (SEE-U) * Skills/Actions Select two of the following courses: EAEE E4257 ENVIR DATA ANALYSIS ＆ MODELING EESC GU4050 Global Assessment and Monitoring Using Remote Sensing EESC BC3050 Big Data with Python: Python for Environmental Analysis and Visualisation SDEV UN2320 Economic and Financial Methods for Sustainable Development SDEV UN3390 GIS for Sustainable Development SDEV UN3450 SPATIAL ANALYSIS FOR SDEV SOCI UN3010 Methods for Social Research SUMA PS4100 Sustainability Management SDEV GU4101 Qualitative Research Methods for Sustainable Development SDEV GU4240 Science Communication The Summer Ecosystems Experience for Undergraduates (SEE-U) * Practicum Select one of the following courses: INAF U4420 Oil, Rights and Development SDEV UN3998 Sustainable Development Independent Study SUMA PS4310 Practicum in Innovation Sustainability Leadership SUMA PS4734 Earth Institute Practicum Electives Select two courses from the following areas. Courses can be combined across Areas 2-5 only. If you select Area 1, you must complete two thesis courses and these will fulfill the elective requirement: Area 1: Senior Thesis Sequence (EESC BC3800/EESC BC3801 and EESC UN3901) ** Area 2: Upper level courses from the approved electives list (see link in footnotes to access list) *** Area 3: Additional courses listed under Analysis and Solutions to Complex Problem Area 4: Additional courses listed under Skills/Actions Area 5 SDEV UN3310 Ethics of Sustainable Development SDEV GU4050 Essential Connections: US Water & Energy Policy in a Resource-Constrained World SDEV GU4350 PUBLIC LANDS IN THE AMERICAN WEST Capstone Workshop SDEV UN3280 Workshop in Sustainable Development SDEV UN3550 BANGLADSH:LIFE-TECT ACTV DELTA * The Summer Ecosystem Experiences for Undergraduates (SEE-U): Please note that students in the major or the special concentration who take SEE-U as a 6-point course can use 3 points towards the Complex Problems requirement and 3 points towards the Skills/Action requirement. If SEE-U is taken for 3 points, it can only count as one Complex Problems class. ** If choosing the senior thesis option to fulfill the elective requirements, students must take both courses in the senior thesis sequence. *** For a full list of previously approved electives, please visit the sustainable development program website: http://sdev.ei.columbia.edu/curriculum/major/. Note: Please visit the Sustainable Development website for requirements: Majors: http://sdev.ei.columbia.edu/curriculum/major/ Special Concentration in Sustainable Development In addition to the requirements of the special concentration, students must complete a major or a full concentration. In addition to the requirements of the special concentration, students must complete a major. The sustainable development foundation courses should be taken first and students should then work with the program adviser on further course selection and sequencing. The special concentration in sustainable development requires a minimum of 9 courses and a practicum as follows: Course List Code Title Points Sustainable Development Foundation SDEV UN1900 Introduction to Sustainable Development Seminar SDEV UN2300 Challenges of Sustainable Development EESC UN2330 SCIENCE FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVPT Natural Science Systems Select one of the following courses. NOTE--Associated Labs are also required: CHEM UN1403 GENERAL CHEMISTRY I-LECTURES EEEB UN1001 Biodiversity EEEB UN2002 Environmental Biology II: Organisms to the Biosphere (EESC UN2310 is co-requisite with EEEB UN2002) EESC UN1003 Climate and Society: Case Studies EESC UN1011 Earth: Origin, Evolution, Processes, Future EESC UN1030 OCEANOGRAPHY EESC UN1201 Environmental Risks and Disasters EESC UN1600 Earth Resources and Sustainable Development EESC UN2100 Earth's Environmental Systems: The Climate System EESC UN2200 EARTH'S ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS: THE SOLID EARTH EESC UN2300 Earth's Environmental Systems: The Life System (EESC UN2310 is co-requisite with EESC UN2300) PHYS UN1201 - PHYS UN1291 General Physics I and General Physics Laboratory Human Science Systems Select one of the following courses: ANTH UN1002 The Interpretation of Culture ANTH UN2004 INTRO TO SOC ＆ CULTURAL THEORY ANTH BC2427 ANTHROPOLOGY OF CLIMATE CHANGE ECON UN1105 Principles of Economics HIST UN2222 NATURE ＆ POWER: ENV HIST NORTH AMERICA POLS UN1201 INTRO TO AMERICAN POLITICS (Students can take POLS 1201 OR SDEV 2050) POLS UN1501 Introduction to Comparative Politics (Students can take POLS 1501 OR POLS 1601) POLS UN1601 INTERNATIONAL POLITICS SDEV UN2000 Introduction to Environmental Law SDEV UN2050 Environmental Policy and Governance SDEV UN3400 Human Populations and Sustainable Development SOCI UN1000 THE SOCIAL WORLD Analysis and Solutions to Complex Problems Select two of the following courses: ANTH BC3932 Climate Change, Global Migration, and Human Rights in the Anthropocene CIEE E3260 ENGINEERING FOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT EAEE W4304 Closing the carbon cycle ECIA W4100 MGMT ＆ DEVPT OF WATER SYSTEMS EESC BC3032 Agricultural and Urban Land Use: Human-Environment Interactions EESC GU4600 EARTH RESOURCES ＆ SUSTAIN DEV HIST GU4811 Encounters with Nature: The History of Environment and Health in South Asia and Beyond PUBH UN3100 FUNDAMENTALS OF GLOBAL HEALTH PUBH GU4200 Environment, Health, and Justice: Concepts and Practice SDEV UN3330 Ecological and Social Systems for Sustainable Development SDEV UN3355 Climate Change and Law SDEV UN3360 Disasters and Development SDEV UN3366 Energy Law SDEV UN3410 Cities ＆ Sustainability URBS UN3565 Cities in Developing Countries: Problems and Prospects The Summer Ecosystem Experiences for Undergraduates (SEE-U) * Skills/Actions Select one of the following courses: EAEE E4257 ENVIR DATA ANALYSIS ＆ MODELING EESC BC3050 Big Data with Python: Python for Environmental Analysis and Visualisation EESC GU4050 Global Assessment and Monitoring Using Remote Sensing SDEV UN2320 Economic and Financial Methods for Sustainable Development SDEV UN3390 GIS for Sustainable Development SDEV UN3450 SPATIAL ANALYSIS FOR SDEV SDEV GU4101 Qualitative Research Methods for Sustainable Development SDEV GU4240 Science Communication SUMA PS4100 Sustainability Management SOCI UN3010 Methods for Social Research The Summer Ecosystem Experiences for Undergraduates (SEE-U) * Practicum Select one of the following courses: INAF U4420 Oil, Rights and Development SDEV UN3998 Sustainable Development Independent Study SUMA PS4310 Practicum in Innovation Sustainability Leadership SUMA PS4734 Earth Institute Practicum Capstone Workshop SDEV UN3280 Workshop in Sustainable Development SDEV UN3550 BANGLADSH:LIFE-TECT ACTV DELTA * The Summer Ecosystem Experiences for Undergraduates (SEE-U): Please note that students in the major or the special concentration who take SEE-U as a 6-point course can use 3 points towards the Complex Problems requirement and 3 points towards the Skills/Action requirement. If SEE-U is taken for 3 points, it can only count as one Complex Problems class. Note: Sustainable Development Website for Special Concentrators: http://sdev.ei.columbia.edu/curriculum/special-concentration/ SDEV UN1900 Introduction to Sustainable Development Seminar. 1 Point. Open to prospective sustainable development majors and concentrators only. The course is designed to be a free flowing discussion of the principals of sustainable development and the scope of this emerging discipline. This course will also serve to introduce the students to the requirements of the undergraduate program in sustainable development and the content of the required courses in both the special concentration and the major. The focus will be on the breadth of subject matter, the multidisciplinary nature of the scholarship and familiarity with the other key courses in the program. Offered in the Fall and Spring. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11788 Jason Smerdon T 11:40am - 12:55pm 516 Hamilton Hall Fall 2022 001 11976 Jason Smerdon T 11:40am - 12:55pm Room TBA SDEV UN2000 Introduction to Environmental Law. 3 Points. The course provides an overview of environmental law for students without a legal background. It examines U.S. statutes and regulations regarding air, water, hazardous and toxic materials, land use, climate change, endangered species, and the like, as well as international environmental issues. After completing the course students should be equipped to understand how the environmental laws operate, the role of the courts, international treaties and government agencies in implementing environmental protection, and techniques used in addressing these issues. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11790 Philip Weinberg M W 10:10am - 11:25am 703 Hamilton Hall SDEV UN2050 Environmental Policy and Governance. 3 Points. Sustainability is a powerful framework for thinking about business, economics, politics and environmental impacts. An overview course, Environmental Policy & Governance will focus specifically on the policy elements of sustainability. With an emphasis on the American political system, the course will begin by exploring the way the American bureaucracy addresses environmental challenges. We will then use the foundations established through our understanding of the US system to study sustainable governance at the international level. With both US and international perspectives in place, we will then address a range of specific sustainability issues including land use, climate change, food and agriculture, air quality, water quality, and energy. Over the course of the semester, we will study current events through the lens of sustainability policy to help illustrate course concepts and theories. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Fall 2022 001 11992 Lisa Dale M W 10:10am - 11:25am Room TBA SDEV UN2300 Challenges of Sustainable Development. 3 Points. This course provides an introduction to the field of sustainable development, drawing primarily from social science and policy studies. It offers a critical examination of the concept of sustainable development, showing how factors like economics, population, culture, politics and inequality complicate its goals. Students will learn how different social science disciplines (political science, demography, economics, geography, history, law, and sociology) approach challenges of sustainable development across a variety of topics (fisheries, climate change, air pollution, consumption, energy, conservation, and water management). The course provides students with some of the fundamental concepts, vocabulary, and analytical tools to pursue and think critically about sustainable development. Offered in the Spring. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11792 Lisa Dale T Th 10:10am - 11:25am 614 Schermerhorn Hall SDEV UN2320 Economic and Financial Methods for Sustainable Development. 3 Points. Prerequisites: Principles of Economics and one semester of calculus. The objective of this course is to introduce students to the skills and methods necessary to understand and evaluate the economic and financial aspects of sustainable development. Throughout the course, students will compare competing objectives and policies through the prism of economic & financial reasoning. Environmental economics and finance are broad areas covering all the multi-faceted and complex interactions between the economic system and the natural environment. Financial markets are the primary source of signals used to direct economic activity in a capitalist global economy. Economic activity is the primary determinant of the quality and sustainability of the natural environment. Students interested in sustainable development who are unfamiliar with economics and who do not develop a facility with economic and financial concepts are severely handicapped in their efforts to increase the level of environmental responsibility embedded in economic activity. This course is intended to provide students with a flying introduction to key analytical concepts required to understand topics in environmental economics and finance and to introduce them to selected topics within the field. The first part of the course (the Analytical Toolbox) is designed to provide a set of portable skills for two sets of students: a) those who will work in fields specifically devoted to sustainable development who, as part of their work, will need to engage with sources of economic & financial information and with discourses where sustainable development is not a focus; and b) students who may end up following careers in organizations where sustainability is not the primary objective. The topics and readings in the second part of the course were chosen to facilitate a critical engagement with the broad intellectual framework underlying sustainable development from the perspective of economics and finance. The topics are intended to create a community of intellectual discourse on sustainable development that will spill over beyond the classroom to the conversations of students and alumni that will far outlive graduation. Offered in the Fall. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Fall 2022 001 11977 Satyajit Bose M W 4:10pm - 5:25pm Room TBA SDEV UN3280 Workshop in Sustainable Development. 4 Points. Open to sustainable development seniors only. The upper level undergraduate Sustainable Development Workshop will be modeled on client based graduate-level workshops, but with more time devoted to methods of applied policy analysis and issues in Sustainable Development. The heart of the course is the group project on an issue of sustainable development with a faculty advisor providing guidance and ultimately grading student performance. Students would receive instruction on methodology, group work, communication and the context of policy analysis. Much of the reading in the course would be project-specific and identified by the student research teams. Offered in Fall and Spring. For registration issues contact Cari Shimkus (cshimkus@ei.columbia.edu). Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11793 Joyce Klein Rosenthal M W 2:10pm - 4:00pm 325 Pupin Laboratories Spring 2022 002 11794 Radley Horton T Th 12:10pm - 2:00pm C01 80 Claremont Fall 2022 001 11978 Joyce Klein Rosenthal M W 2:10pm - 4:00pm Room TBA Fall 2022 002 11979 Radley Horton T Th 12:10pm - 2:00pm Room TBA SDEV UN3310 Ethics of Sustainable Development. 3 Points. Aiming to improve human conditions within many diverse environments, sustainable development seeks to create, increase and perpetuate benefit and to cease, rectify and reverse harm. Sustainable development is consequently inextricable from the fabric of ethics, woven with determinations of benefit and harm to the existence and well-being of both humans and nonhumans. Underlying such determinations are those of self- and other-regarding motivation and behavior; and underlying these are still others, of sensitivity and rationality in decision-making, whether individual, social or public. Sustainable development is interlaced with and contingent upon all these determinations, at once prescriptive and judgmental, which can be called the ethics of sustainable development. This course is divided into four main sections, of which two are intended to show the ethical fallacies of unsustainable development, and two, the ethical pathways of sustainable development. The first section focuses upon ethically problematic basic assumptions, including human (species) hegemony, happy (hedonic) materialism, and selective (data) denial. The second focuses upon ethically problematic ensuing rationalizations, including those pertaining to damages, victims, consequences and situations of climatic, chemical, biological and ecological harm. The third section responds to these rationalizations with ethically vital considerations of earth justice, environmental justice, culturally-based ethics, and sector-based ethics (water, food, place and climate ethics). Finally, the fourth section responds to the initial, longstanding problematic assumptions with a newly emergent ethical paradigm, comprising biotic wholeness, environmental integrity and the deliberative zero-goal. Tying all sections together is the central theme: to be sustainable, development must be ethical. Reflecting the collaborative quality of the field of sustainable development, the course extends to readings whose authors have all pursued their work at intersections of science and ethics, environment and ethics, policy and ethics, business and ethics, and sustainable development and ethics. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11796 Adela Gondek T Th 1:10pm - 2:25pm 825 Seeley W. Mudd Building SDEV UN3330 Ecological and Social Systems for Sustainable Development. 3 Points. Prerequisites: SDEV UN2300 Challenges of Sustainable Development and EESC UN2330 Science for Sustainable Development. The course focuses on basic principles in understanding ecological and social relationships and then focuses on three current topics central to Sustainable Development for in-depth study. Examples of topics to be covered are: conservation of biodiversity, payments for ecosystem services, and the ecology of food production. The emphasis will be on the multiple perspectives— environmental, social and economic—required to understand and develop solutions to problems in sustainable development. These topics will undoubtedly vary from year to year, as the course keeps pace with current topics. SDEV UN3355 Climate Change and Law. 3 Points. Enrollment limited to 15. The purpose of this course is to provide students with a broad introduction to the field of climate law in the United States and at the international level. The course begins with an overview of the causes and effects of global climate change and the methods available to control and adapt to it. We then examine the negotiation, implementation and current status of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol, and the Copenhagen Accord. The focus then turns to the past and proposed actions of the U.S. Congress, the executive branch and the courts, as well as regional, state and municipal efforts. The Clean Air Act, the National Environmental Policy Act and the Endangered Species Act will receive special attention. We evaluate the various legal tools that are available to address climate change, including cap-and-trade schemes; carbon taxation; command-and-control regulation; litigation; securities disclosures; and voluntary action. The roles of energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, carbon capture and sequestration, and forestry and agriculture each receive close attention. Implications for international human rights, international trade, environmental justice, and international and intergenerational equity are discussed. The course concludes with examination of the special challenges posed by China; proposals for adaptation and geoengineering; and business opportunities and the role of lawyers. Offered in the Spring. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11797 Michael Gerrard T Th 2:50pm - 4:10pm Room TBA Spring 2022 001 11797 Michael Gerrard Th 4:30pm - 5:30pm 304 Hamilton Hall Spring 2022 001 11797 Michael Gerrard M 4:30pm - 5:30pm 407 Mathematics Building SDEV UN3360 Disasters and Development. 3 Points. Prerequisites: EESC 2330; SDEV W2300. Human welfare status is very unevenly distributed throughout the globe – some of us live very comfortable lives, others remain in desperate poverty showing little progress away from their condition. Between are countries that are rapidly developing and converging toward the welfare of the richest. At all levels of economic development human activities place significant pressure on the environment and threatens all of Earth’s vital functions and support systems for human life. This challenge requires timely responses based on solid understanding of the human/environment interface, technological and economic approaches to mitigate adverse effects on the environment, and routes to understanding the complex dynamics of the coupled human/natural systems that can chart a pathway to improvement in the lives of the poorest and continued well-being for those who have achieved prosperity without forcing natural systems into decline or massive fluctuation. This course offers undergraduate students, for the first time, a comprehensive course on the link between natural disaster events and human development at all levels of welfare. It explores the role that natural disasters might have and have had in modulating development prospects. Any student seriously interested in sustainable development, especially in light of climate change, must study the nature of extreme events - their causes, global distribution and likelihood of future change. This course will cover not only the nature of extreme events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and droughts but also their transformation into disaster through social processes. It will ultimately help students to understand the link between such extreme events, the economic/social shock they represent and development outcomes. The course will combine careful analysis of the natural and social systems dynamics that give rise to disasters and examine through group learning case studies from the many disasters that have occurred in the first decade of the 21st century. Offered in the Spring (odd years only). Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Fall 2022 001 11980 John Mutter, Sonali Deraniyagala M W 6:10pm - 7:25pm Room TBA SDEV UN3366 Energy Law. 3 Points. This course concerns the regulation of energy, energy resources, and energy facilities. Among the topics will be the regulation of rates and services; the roles of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the state public utility commissions; and the interaction with environmental law. Attention will be devoted to energy resources (such as oil, natural gas and coal) and to generating, transmission and distribution facilities. The current and future roles of renewable energy, energy efficiency, and nuclear energy will receive special attention, as will the regulation and deregulation of electricity. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Fall 2022 001 11981 Michael Gerrard T 4:20pm - 6:10pm Room TBA SDEV UN3390 GIS for Sustainable Development. 3 Points. Priority given to sustainable development senior and juniors. This course is designed to provide students with a comprehensive overview of theoretical concepts underlying GIS systems and to give students a strong set of practical skills to use GIS for sustainable development research. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are a system of computer software, data and analysis methods used to create, store, manage, digital information that allow us to create maps and dynamic models to analyze the physical and social processes of the world. Through a mixture of lectures, readings, focused discussions, and hands-on exercises, students will acquire an understanding of the variety and structure of spatial data and databases, gain knowledge of the principles behind raster and vector based spatial analysis, and learn basic cartographic principles for producing maps that effectively communicate a message. Student will also learn to use newly emerging web based mapping tools such as Google Earth, Google Maps and similar tools to develop on-line interactive maps and graphics. The use of other geospatial technologies such as the Global Positioning System will also be explored in this class. Case studies examined in class will draw examples from a wide ranges of GIS applications developed to assist in the development, implementation and evaluation of sustainable development projects and programs. On completion of the course, students will: 1. use a variety of GIS software programs to create maps and reports; 2. develop a sound knowledge of methods to search, obtain, and evaluate a wide variety of spatial data resources; 3. develop skills needed to determine best practices for managing spatial data resources; 4. use GIS to analyze the economic, social and environmental processes underlying the concept of building a sustainable world; 5. Gain an understanding of the limits of these technologies and make assessments of uncertainty associated with spatial data and spatial analysis models. Offered in the fall and spring. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11798 Linda Pistolesi T 10:10am - 11:25am 252 Engineering Terrace Spring 2022 001 11798 Linda Pistolesi Th 10:10am - 12:25pm 252 Engineering Terrace Fall 2022 001 11982 Kytt MacManus M 10:10am - 11:25am Room TBA Fall 2022 001 11982 Kytt MacManus W 10:10am - 12:25pm Room TBA SDEV UN3400 Human Populations and Sustainable Development. 3 Points. Population processes and their outcomes in terms of population size and distribution have a fundamental role in sustainable development and also broad policy implications. This course will introduce students to the scientific study of human populations as a contribution toward understanding social structure, relations, and dynamics, as well as society-nature interactions. The aim is to offer a basic introduction to the main theories, concepts, measures, and uses of demography. The course will cover the issues of population size, distribution and composition, and consumption, at different scales from global to regional to local, as well as the implications for population-environment relationships. It will also address the fundamental demographic processes of mortality, fertility and migration, including their trends and transitions, We will consider these topics in the context of economic development, sustainability and cultural change. The course will also include an overview of basic demographic techniques and tools used for identifying, managing, analyzing and interpreting population data, and an introduction to population projections. Lab sessions will supplement readings and lectures by enabling students to explore data sources, calculate rates, and graphically represent demographic data. Offered in the Fall (even years). Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Fall 2022 001 11987 Susana Adamo T Th 10:10am - 11:25am Room TBA SDEV UN3410 Cities ＆ Sustainability. 3.00 Points. In an increasingly urban world, sustainable development is not possible without achieving sustainability in cities. This course explores the challenges and opportunities of sustainable development policy-making at the urban level through the study of local efforts to address climate change, provide access to clean water, and develop renewable energy resources, among other topics. Students will gain a more detailed understanding of how cities’ histories, land use patterns, and economies influence urban resource use, and how cities have attempted to change those impacts. Using case studies of local sustainability initiatives, students examine how a city’s governance structure, political dynamics, and administrative capacity affect policy outcomes. Consideration of the equity implications of urban sustainability efforts is integral to the course Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11799 Siobhan Watson W 6:10pm - 8:00pm 1102 International Affairs Bldg SDEV UN3450 SPATIAL ANALYSIS FOR SDEV. 3.00 Points. Priority given to sustainable development senior and juniors. This is an intermediate course in spatial modeling developed specifically for students in the Undergraduate Sustainable Development program. This course will provide a foundation for understanding a variety of issues related to spatial analysis and modeling. Students will explore the concepts, tools, and techniques of GIS modeling and review and critique modeling applications used for environmental planning and policy development. The course will also offer students the opportunity to design, build and evaluate their own spatial analysis models. The course will cover both vector and raster based methods of analysis with a strong focus on raster-based modeling. We will draw examples from a wide range of applications in such areas as modeling Land Use and Land Cover for biodiversity and conservation, hydrological modeling, and site suitability modeling. The course will consist of lectures, reading assignments, lab assignments, and a final project Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11839 Kytt MacManus M 1:10pm - 2:25pm 252 Engineering Terrace Spring 2022 001 11839 Kytt MacManus W 1:10pm - 3:25pm 252 Engineering Terrace SDEV UN3550 BANGLADSH:LIFE-TECT ACTV DELTA. 4 Points. Open to sustainable development seniors only. This course will explore the interaction of riverine processes, water and hydrology, sedimentary processes, tectonics, land subsidence and sea level rise, environmental issues, cultural setting, and sustainable development in the world’s largest delta. The course will explore both the hazards and resources for life in this dynamic environment through lectures, a field trip to Bangladesh during Spring Break and guest lecturers in earth and social sciences. During the field trip, we will be joined by Dhaka University professors and students, providing experience in cross-cultural collaboration, as well as translators to interviews and discussions with Bangladeshis. By the end of the course, students will develop a quantitative understanding of the multiple earth sciences issues. It will also provide a perspective on the mixture of competing earth science, social, historical and political issues that must be addressed in order to effectively address environmental issues. Students should acquire an ability to assess competing claims and projections for future environmental change. SDEV UN3998 Sustainable Development Independent Study. 1-3 Points. Sustainable development majors and special concentrators must register for this independent study to use internship hours for the practicum credit. Students must consult with their program adviser and department before registering. Offered fall, spring and summer. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11846 Jason Smerdon Fall 2022 001 11983 Jason Smerdon SDEV GU4015 Complexity Science. 3 Points. The Complexity Course is a survey of techniques, applications, and implications of complexity science and complex systems. This course aims to be both an introduction for students from other fields, and a forum for continued discussion within the complexity community. Topics include systems dynamics, chaos, scaling, fattailed distributions, fractals, information theory, emergence, criticality, agentbased models, graph theory, and social networks. SDEV GU4050 Essential Connections: US Water & Energy Policy in a Resource-Constrained World . 3 Points. Course Summary: Water, one of humankind’s first power sources, remains critically important to the task of maintaining a sustainable energy supply, in the United States and elsewhere. Conversely, the need to provide safe drinking water and keep America’s rivers clean cannot be met without access to reliable energy supplies. As the impact of climate disruption and other resource constraints begins to mount, the water/energy nexus is growing increasingly complex and conflict-prone. Essential Connections begins by examining the development of America’s water and energy policies over the past century and how such policies helped to shape present-day environmental law and regulation. Our focus then turns to the current state of US water and energy resources and policy, covering issues such as oil and gas exploration, nuclear energy, hydroelectric power and renewables. We also examine questions of inclusion and equity in connection with the ways in which communities allocate their water and energy resources and burdens along racial, ethnic and socioeconomic lines. The third and final section of the course addresses the prospects for establishing water and energy policies that can withstand climate disruption, scarcity and, perhaps most importantly, America’s seemingly endless appetite for political dysfunction. By semester’s end, students will better understand the state of America’s energy and water supply systems and current efforts to cope with depletion, climate change and related threats affecting these critical, highly-interdependent systems. As a final project, students will utilize the knowledge gained during the semester to create specific proposals for preserving and enhancing the sustainability of US water and energy resources. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11848 Paul Gallay T 4:10pm - 6:00pm 222 Pupin Laboratories SDEV GU4101 Qualitative Research Methods for Sustainable Development. 3 Points. Students of sustainable development are faced with an array of global challenges that warrant scholarly inquiry. Social science questions are particularly well suited for qualitative research. This course will provide an overview of social science research methods, with a focus on building a toolkit for undergraduate students. We begin with an overview of the science of knowing. How do we generate scientific hypotheses in the social sciences, and then how can we find out whether those hypotheses are accurate? An exploration of a range of qualitative research methods will occupy the majority of our class time, including interviewing, case studies, questionnaires, surveys, coding, and participant observation. Toward the end of the course we consider how mixed methods allow for the integration of quantitative tools in the social sciences. Throughout, students will both study and practice these research methods, experimenting to better understand the strengths and challenges associated with each approach. The course will end with poster presentations in which students share their own research and justify the methods they have employed. Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Fall 2022 001 11989 Lisa Dale M 12:10pm - 2:00pm Room TBA SDEV GU4250 CLIMATE CHANGE: RESILIENCE ＆ ADAPTATION. 3.00 Points. This course will offer a focused study of climate change adaptation policy, exploring dimensions of adaptation across sectors and scales. With a thematic focus on pervasive global inequities, students will also consider challenges associated with international development and disaster risk management. An inter-disciplinary framework will enrich the course, and students will learn about perspectives from the natural sciences, law, architecture, anthropology, humanitarian aid, and public policy. The online intensive version of this course will combine synchronous and asynchronous learning: twice weekly live discussion sessions will be matched with assigned readings, recorded lectures and videos Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 11849 Lisa Dale M 12:10pm - 2:00pm 401 Hamilton Hall SDEV GU4350 PUBLIC LANDS IN THE AMERICAN WEST. 3.00 Points. The course fulfills the “complex problems” major requirement for the Undergraduate Program in Sustainable Development (UPSD). The American West is perhaps best known for the dramatic landscapes managed through a web of federal land management agencies. Indeed, western states have a land base that is at least 35％ public, and competing interests vie for limited resources and navigate a complex bureaucracy. Less well understood are the dynamics that arise from the interactions among different land ownership categories: federal, state, and private. Working landscapes are essential pieces of the cultural heartbeat of the region. This course will focus on: 1) the history of western settlement, highlighting the ways in which early Westerners divided up the land base and allocated resources; 2) the agencies in charge of managing federal public land including the U.S. Forest Service, U.S. Bureau of Land Management, and U.S. Park Service; and 3) state and private land, with a particular interest in the State Land Board. We will explore the legal and regulatory framework that guides land-use decisions, and study enduring resource access conflicts. Pulling from both academic scholarship and the gray literature in political science, environmental sciences, law, and organizational behavior, this course provides an interdisciplinary overview of governance challenges in the American West. Academic Schedule The course will start on Tuesday, May 31st and meet on Tuesdays/Wednesdays/Thursdays on Zoom (likely from 2-5 pm EST each day). The week of June 12th-19th the course will take place in the field in Colorado. The final week will be on Zoom on Tuesday, Wednesday Thursday, again likely from 2-5 pm EST each day. The course ends on Thursday, June 23rd. Modality The course will be offered in a hybrid format. The first two weeks and final (fourth) week of the class will be held entirely on Zoom. We will meet three times per week (Tues/Wed/Thurs) for three hours each session. Week three of the course (June 12-19) will be held in person in Colorado. There, we have the opportunity to visit a broad spectrum of land use types including federally managed forest and grasslands, protected parks, state land board parcels, and private ranches. Student will have some access to local leaders who will accompany us on various field trips to offer their perspectives. The class will participate in many kinds of field activities including hiking in federally designated Wilderness areas, visiting an oil and gas well on public lands, exploring an area recently burned by wildfire, and meeting with rural ranchers. To enroll in this course, you must apply to the Columbia Summer Field Course: Public Lands in the American West through the Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement (UGE) Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Summer 2022 001 11260 Lisa Dale SDEV GU4420 Oil, Rights ＆ Development. 1.00 Point. The Simulation class has as its purpose to familiarize and inform the student participants with the real-life interests, objectives, constraints, working and strategies of the range of stakeholders concerned or engaged with a large natural resource development project (oil) in a developing and civil war torn country. It challenges the students, as members of pre-assigned teams with different goals and objectives, as well as values, to seek ways to reconcile, to the extent possible, through discussion and negotiation the different and even conflicting interests, goals and strategies of the multiple stakeholders. These stakeholders include the governing parties, opposition parties, local and international NGOs, local and international media and think tanks, as well as two oil companies, including one from an authoritarian country, competing for the oil development contract Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Spring 2022 001 20188 Jenik Radon SDEV GU4550 The New York City Watershed: From Community Displacement to Collaboration and Climate Adaptation. 1.00 Point. The New York City Watershed: From Community Displacement to Collaboration and Climate Adaptation brings students to the Catskill Mountains in upstate New York to learn first hand from researchers and practitioners who help supply over ten million New Yorkers with safe and abundant drinking water while also working to build social, economic and environmental capital in the towns and villages located in the watershed surrounding the city’s reservoirs – all against a backdrop of increasing climate-related disruption. The class will learn how New York City and a coalition of upstate watershed communities worked to end nearly a century of mutual resentment, displacement and extraction by entering into the Watershed Agreement of 1997, which has become a widely renowned model for collaborative and equitable water resources management planning in the twenty-five years since its completion. Students will engage with several of the Watershed Agreement’s original negotiators and with the local elected officials, agency staff and non-profit leaders who implement its signature “multi-barrier” strategy for drinking water protection through open space preservation, support for sustainable farming practices and investments in clean water infrastructure and sustainable economic growth in watershed communities. They will also learn how increases in storm intensity and warming driven by climate change threaten to upset the delicate balance between New York City’s need for safe drinking water and the socio-economic interests of upstate watershed communities. Upon completion of the course, students will better understand the challenges involved in creating and implementing collaborative, multi-stakeholder plans for water resource management and host community benefits in today’s increasingly climate-disrupted world Term Section Call Number Instructor Times/Location Fall 2022 001 15094 Paul Gallay Of Related Interest Course List Code Title Points Analysis of Climate and Earth Systems EESC BC3017 Environmental Data Analysis EESC GU4008 Introduction to Atmospheric Science EESC GU4917 Earth/Human Interactions EESC GR6901 Research Computing for the Earth Sciences Disasters and Health ANTH V3924 Anthropology and Disaster ANTH V3971 Culture and Environmental Behavior INAF U6760 Managing Risk in Natural and Other Disasters Economics ECON UN2257 Global Economy ECON BC3029 Empirical Development Economics ECON UN3211 Intermediate Microeconomics ECON UN3213 Intermediate Macroeconomics ECON GU4301 ECONOMIC GROWTH ＆ DEVELOPMNT I ECON GU4370 Political Economy ECON GU4500 International Trade ECON G4527 Economic Organization and Development of China ECON W4625 Economics of the Environment SUMA PS4190 ECONOMICS OF SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Energy and Engineering ANTH V3872 From Physics Labs to Oil Futures: Social Studies of Energy INAF U6242 Energy Policy INAF U8778 Distributed Energy Economics, Technology, and Policy EAEE E3103 ENERGY,MINERALS,MATERIALS SYST CIEE E4252 Foundations of Environmental Engineering EAEE E4001 INDUST ECOLOGY-EARTH RESOURCES EAEE E3900 UNDERGRAD RES-ENVIRONMTL ENGIN Food, Health and Ecology EEEB UN3087 Conservation Biology EEEB W4122 Fundamentals of Ecology and Evolution EEEB GU4260 Food, Ecology, and Globalization HSPB W3950 Social History of American Public Health PUBH GU4200 Environment, Health, and Justice: Concepts and Practice SOCI V2230 Food and the Social Order SUMA PS4235 The Science of Urban Ecology SUMA PS 5030 Hungry City Workshop Law, Policy and Human Rights EEEB GU4321 Human Nature: DNA, Race & Identity EEEB GU4700 Race: The Tangled History of a Biological Concept ENVP U6236 Origins of Environmental Law: Regulation & Evolution HIST W4400 Americans and the Natural World, 1800 to the Present HRTS UN3001 Introduction to Human Rights HRTS BC3850 Human Rights and Public Health POLS BC3805 *Colloquium on International Organization INAF U4545 Contemporary Diplomacy INAF U6243 International Environmental Policy JWST G4610 Environment and Sustainability in Israel â€“ Between the Local and the Regional SCNC W3010 Science, technology and society SDEV UN3310 Ethics of Sustainable Development SDEV GU4350 PUBLIC LANDS IN THE AMERICAN WEST SOCI UN3020 Social Statistics SOCI UN3235 SOCIAL MOVEMENTS SOCI UN3324 Global Urbanism SOCI UN3960 Law, Science, and Society POLS V3212 Environmental Politics REGN U6639 Gender and Development in Southeast Asia POLS UN3604 War, Peace, and International Interventions in Africa POLS UN3690 International Law CGTH UN3402 Topics in Global Thought: Global 20-Youth in an Interconnected World Urban Studies/Urbanization URBS V3200 Spatial Analysis: GIS Methods and Urban Case Studies URBS UN3565 Cities in Developing Countries: Problems and Prospects PLAN A4579 Introduction to Environmental Planning SUMA PS4130 Sustainable Cities SUMA PS4330 Disaster Risk Management and Sustainable Urban Resilience SUMA PS4490 Women in Cities: Integrating Needs, Rights, Access and Opportunity into Sustainable Urban Design, Planning and Management Waste Management and Pollution EAEE E4009 GIS-RES,ENVIR,INFRASTRUCTR MGT EAEE E4150 AIR POLLUTION PREVENTION/CONTR EAEE E4160 SOLID ＆ HAZARDOUS WASTE MGMT EAEE E4257 ENVIR DATA ANALYSIS ＆ MODELING EESC BC3033 Waste Management CIEE E3255 ENVIR CONTR/POLLUTN REDUCT SYS Water EAEE E4350 PLANNG/MGT-URBAN HYDROLGC SYST EEEB W4110 Coastal and Estuarine Ecology EEEB GU4195 Marine Conservation Ecology ECIA W4100 MGMT ＆ DEVPT OF WATER SYSTEMS CIEE E3250 Hydrosystems engineering CIEE E4163 SUSTAINABLE WATER TREAT/REUSE SDEV GU4050 Essential Connections: US Water & Energy Policy in a Resource-Constrained World SUMA PS4145 Science of Sustainable Water Columbia College Columbia University in the City of New York 208 Hamilton Hall, Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 ColumbiaCollege@columbia.edu Phone: 212-854-2441 College Offices Alumni Affairs and Development Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Center for the Core Curriculum Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Double Discovery Center Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights Financial Aid & Educational Financing Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Student Life Follow Us Columbia College on Facebook Columbia College on Twitter Columbia College on Instagram © 2021-22 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page including tabs. Cancel