Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Undergraduate / Schools, Colleges, and Divisions / School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management / Minor in Sport Management Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate About This Bulletin Academic Calendar About Temple University Academic Policies Campuses Tuition and Fees Student Financial Aid Academic Programs General Education Intercollegial Programs Temple University, Japan Campus Schools, Colleges, and Divisions Tyler School of Art & Architecture Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts Boyer College of Music & Dance School of Theater, Film and Media Arts College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Fox School of Business and Management College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication College of Public Health School of Social Work College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Bachelor of Science in Event & Entertainment Management Bachelor of Science in Sport & Recreation Management Bachelor of Science in Tourism & Hospitality Management Certificate in Event & Entertainment Management Certificate in Sport Management Certificate in Sport Marketing Certificate in Tourism & Hospitality Management Minor in Sport Management Minor in Tourism & Hospitality Management University College Division of University Studies Course Descriptions Graduate and Professional Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Minor in Sport Management About Requirements The minor in Sport Management will allow students across Temple University to augment their major degrees with exposure to a program that prepares students to lead and succeed in the fast-paced world of sport, recreation and leisure management. The sport management program integrates foundational business principles with innovative concepts related directly to the distinct industry of sport. Temple's Sport and Recreation Management program is one of the oldest and most distinguished programs of its kind in the country. The required courses serve to provide students an overview of different sectors of the sport industry; elective courses offer more in-depth exploration of the support segments across multiple industry sectors. The minor in Sport Management is open to non-Sport and Recreation Management majors only. It provides a good foundation for students who wish to apply to the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management's Master of Science in Sport Business program. Declare Your Minor Students interested in declaring this minor in the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management (STHM) should follow these steps: First, meet with your home academic advisor to confirm the minor will fit into your present academic and graduation plan. After confirming plan fit, please e-mail sthmcss@temple.edu to meet with an academic advisor or attend our peer advising hours, offered daily via Zoom. Submit a Change of Program Request form to sthmcss@temple.edu in STHM's Center for Student Services (CSS). Once approved, the form will be submitted electronically to the Office of the University Registrar (O.U.R). In 3-5 business days, the request will be processed and then visible within Self-Service Banner (Student Information tab). Questions? Contact us at sthmcss@temple.edu or at 215-204-8701. Requirements Course List Code Title Credit Hours Required Courses Take the following 3 courses in consultation with an STHM advisor: SRM 3221 Athletics Administration 3 SRM 3222 Global Sport Management 3 SRM 3225 Recreation and Leisure Service Management 3 Elective Courses Select 3 courses from the following list in consultation with an STHM advisor: 9 STHM 0857 Sport & Leisure in American Society 1 STHM 2401 Foundations of Event and Entertainment Management SRM 1211 Sport and Society SRM 3214 Marketing Management in Sport and Recreation 2 SRM 3215 Stadium/Arena Design and Management SRM 3220 Special Topics in Sport and Recreation Management 3 SRM 3224 Media and Communications in Sport and Recreation SRM 3226 Consumer Behavior in Sport and Recreation SRM 3227 Advanced Marketing for Sport and Recreation SRM 3228 Sales Management in Sport and Recreation SRM 3231 Leadership in Sport and Recreation SRM 3232 SRM 3233 Esports Management and Industry Trends Total Credit Hours 18 1 Sections of this course offered by other Temple departments may be substituted. 2 Offered online. 3 Course may only be applied once toward the minor. Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel