Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / School of Pharmacy / Graduate Certificate: Food Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy Global Clinical and Pharmacovigilance Regulations, M.S. Pharmaceutical Regulatory Sciences, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, Ph.D. Pharmacy, Pharm.D. Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, M.S. Graduate Certificate: Advanced Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing and Regulatory Affairs Graduate Certificate: Food Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Labeling, Advertising and Promotions Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Manufacturing: Process Development and Analysis Graduate Certificate: Sterile Process Manufacturing Graduate Certificate: Validation Sciences School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Graduate Certificate: Food Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance About Admission Program Requirements Contacts SCHOOL OF PHARMACY About the Certificate The graduate and post-master's certificate in Food Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance is intended to enable Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance (RAQA) students to receive formal recognition for studying food regulation and quality practices, which expands their regulatory knowledge. The certificate is also designed for individuals working in Philadelphia's large food industry so they can earn credentials in this highly important and rapidly expanding field. As the name "Food and Drug Administration" (FDA) implies, numerous parallels exist between the regulations and quality practices of drug and food products. Since the 1990s, employees from Philadelphia's food industry have been engaged in the RAQA graduate program, either taking individual courses or pursuing the M.S. degree. Then, in 2011, the Food Safety and Modernization Act (FSMA) encompassed some of the most sweeping reforms in food safety laws in more than 70 years, shifting the focus of food safety from responding to contamination to preventing it. Through completion of the certificate, whether post-baccalaureate or post-master's, students become: knowledgeable and conversant in key regulatory practices that prepare them for supervisory and managerial positions in the food industry or better prepare them for positions in the pharmaceutical industry with food-related products; fluent in discussing the basics of food quality practices, including good manufacturing practices (GMPs) and preventive control and hazard/risk analysis; knowledgeable about the legal and regulatory requirements involved in a food company's processing activities; capable of identifying the key regulatory agencies — in addition to the FDA, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) — involved in food quality assurance and regulation, being familiar with their roles, responsibilities, and missions; and fluent in knowing where to find the latest FDA regulatory changes in the food industry so they can respond quickly to new regulatory and quality trends and developments. Time Limit for Certificate Completion: 2 years Campus Location: Fort Washington Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The certificate may be completed on a part-time basis. NOTE: International students may not be eligible to apply for a student visa based on admission to the certificate program. Please contact the School of Pharmacy's program coordinator for more information. Job Prospects: Those completing the certificate gain the knowledge and skills to prepare them to address the laws and regulations set forth in FSMA. Graduates are at an advantage when pursuing an FDA career in food inspection or employment with food manufacturers. They are also prepared to work with the medical foods of the RAQA industry, such as baby formula, dietary supplements, nutraceuticals, and vitamins. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: The certificate program may be completed on a non-matriculated basis. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall and Spring admissions are on a rolling basis. Interested students should contact the School of Pharmacy for permission to enroll in coursework. Master's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: Applicants completing the certificate program to earn a post-master's certificate must hold a master's degree in a Pharmacy-related field. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: Applicants completing the certificate program to earn a post-baccalaureate certificate must hold a B.S. degree in Biochemistry, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, or a health-related discipline. Certificate Requirements Number of Credits Required to Complete the Certificate: 91 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours QARA 5595 Food Law 3 QARA 5596 Food Labeling and Regulatory Affairs 3 QARA 5597 Food Good Manufacturing Processes 3 Total Credit Hours 9 1 Upon completion of the certificate, students who choose to pursue additional study in food issues are recommended to take QARA 5594 Regulation of Dietary Supplements and Functional Foods (3 s.h.). GPA Required to be Awarded the Certificate: 3.0 minimum Contacts Certificate Program Web Address: https://www.temple.edu/pharmacy_qara/certificates.htm Department Information: Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Program 425 Commerce Drive, Suite 175 Fort Washington, PA 19034-2728 qara@temple.edu 267-468-8560 Mailing Address for Application Materials: Temple University Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Program 425 Commerce Drive, Suite 175 Fort Washington, PA 19034-2728 Department Contacts: Admissions: Wendy Lebing, MALD, M.S. Program Coordinator qara@temple.edu 267-468-8560 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel