Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Graduate and Professional Welcome to the Graduate and Professional Bulletin of Temple University. Graduate The Graduate School oversees all facets of graduate education at Temple University. It is responsible for admitting students who meet university requirements and recommending to The Board of Trustees the awarding of master's, professional science master's, and research and practice doctoral degrees. The Graduate School also reviews the qualifications of faculty members who have been appointed as “Graduate Faculty.” Importantly, the Graduate School oversees the quality of new and continuing graduate programs, monitors standards of scholarship, maintains student records, and verifies advancement to candidacy. In concert with the Graduate Board, the Graduate School establishes and maintains admissions and degree requirements in consultation with the deans of the schools and colleges and their graduate councils. The Graduate School also administers policies established by the Graduate Board and Temple University. Professional With the advent of the 2020-2021 academic year, professional education was added to the bulletin. Professional schools at Temple University include: Kornberg School of Dentistry Beasley School of Law Lewis Katz School of Medicine School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine The programs and advanced certificates for each professional school continue to be identified and delineated herein as the information becomes available. Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel