Skip to Content Apply Support TU Login People Finder Maps Social Media Contact ﻿ About TU Admission Academics Campus Life Research Athletics Academics Kendall College of Arts & Sciences Collins College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Continuing Education Departments & Schools Offices & Services Admission and Financial Aid Alexander Health Center Business Office Collins Fitness Center Financial Aid McFarlin Library Office of the Registrar Offices Explore A-Z Index Arts @ TU Courses Degrees Employment Faculty Directory Maps Virtual Tour Resources Academic Calendar Campus Security Contact Events Calendar Information Technology TU Portal Web Site Issue Report Connect With TU ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ Social Media Directory University of Tulsa May 31, 2022 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Select a Bulletin 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Graduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Law Bulletin 2020-2021 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] Global Search Bulletin Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Academic Units Other Content Entire Bulletin Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Bulletin Home All Programs All Courses The Henry Kendall College of Arts and Sciences The Collins College of Business The College of Engineering and Natural Sciences The Oxley College of Health Sciences The College of Law Undergraduate Interdisciplinary and Pre-professional Programs Academic Calendar Accreditation and Assessment Admission Undergraduate Education at The University of Tulsa Academic Policies Tuition and Fees Student Services Student Rights, Freedoms and Responsibilities Resident Faculty My Bulletin HELP 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin The College of Law Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Elizabeth McCormick, Interim Dean For more information about degree offerings by the faculty of the College of Law, visit the College of Law webpage. For information on the College of Law’s J.D. program, see the College of Law Bulletin. The College of Law offers students opportunities for small class sizes, one-on-one interactions with professors and individualized career counseling. Professors and students enjoy newly-renovated facilities that include state-of-the-art electronic classroom technology. Academic life is enriched by the College of Law’s many lectures, conferences, and programs which are open to the entire Tulsa community. The College of Law offers unique opportunities for undergraduate students at The University of Tulsa: The undergraduate Law, Policy and Social Justice Minor and the Business and Law Accelerated Program . Law, Policy and Social Justice Minor The undergraduate Law, Policy and Social Justice Minor at The University of Tulsa College of Law has the general aim of making the law a centerpiece for interdisciplinary inquiry into the diverse ways in which cultures-notably, but not exclusively, American society-have sought to achieve order and justice through appeals to recognized authority. The subject of law as a field worthy of study is widely acknowledged at The University of Tulsa but until now has been accessible mainly to J.D. students who pursue a professional degree in the College of Law or to undergraduates who take courses that include legal subject matter but typically are ancillary to a chosen concentration in the humanities or business. The law is much more than either of these applications. Instead, it provides a way to think through a different intellectual lens about the evolution of society and the problems that threaten fairness, justice, and inclusiveness in society. Social history; conceptions of social conformity; juridical expectations regarding rights, obligations, and interpersonal relations; evolving ideas of justice and punishment from cross-cultural perspectives and from perspectives of history are all revealed through study of the law. The Law, Policy and Social Justice Minor enables students to explore law as a diverse human effort to achieve collective order without sacrificing individuality or the freedoms of discrete and insular minorities. The use of law as an instrument of policy for effecting change and improvement in human societies is examined in historical and present-day contexts, and in descriptive and normative modes of inquiry. Areas that students may pursue through coursework in the minor include, for example, morality, responsibility, theories of punishment, the American legal system, international law, legal and political philosophy, literature, the death penalty, sex crimes, climate and the environment, copyrights and intellectual property, and the internet as a space both for self-expression and for piracy and other controversial activities. Business and Law Accelerated Law Program Through a collaborative program with the College of Law and the Collins College of Business, selected students can complete their undergraduate degree and a J.D. in six years. At the end of their first year in law school and the completion of 124-125 applicable semester hours, students in the program will be awarded a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (B.S.B.A.) degree with a major in business and law. Students in the Collins College of Business are eligible to apply for admission to the Business and Law Accelerated Law Program in the fall of their third year of undergraduate study at The University of Tulsa. Admission is highly selective. Visit the College of Law Business and Law Accelerated Law Program page for requirements for applicants and the Accelerated Business and Law Program for Exceptional Students page for curricular requirements. For more information about this program, contact April Fox, Associate Dean and Director of Admissions, TU College of Law, at april-fox@utulsa.edu, or Adrien Bouchet, Chair of the Department of Management and Marketing in the Collins College of Business, at adrien-bouchet@utulsa.edu. Pre-law Study Information about pre-law programs offered by other Colleges at The University of Tulsa may be found on the Pre-law page. Faculty Professors Chuck Adams Barbara Bucholtz Russell Christopher Lyn Entzeroth Stephen Galoob Karen Grundy Janet Levit Gina Nerger Johnny Parker Elizabeth Rosenblatt Bob Spoo Associate Professors Warigia Bowman Matt Lamkin Ido Kilovaty Lori Twomey Associate Clinical Professors Miriam Marton Elizabeth McCormick Assistant Professors Caroline Guerra Wolf Kelsey Holder Aila Hoss Melissa Luttrell Assistant Clinical Professor Roni Amit Programs Minor • Law, Policy and Social Justice Minor Courses Law • LAWU 2013 The Law, Ethics and Psychology of Responsibility • LAWU 2023 Steal This Course: Piracy from the High Seas to the Internet • LAWU 3003 The Art of Analytical Thinking • LAWU 3023 Copyright in the Digital Age • LAWU 3082-3 Law and Literature • LAWU 3393 Politics of the Global Commons • LAWU 4162 Climate Change • LAWU 4173 Cybersecurity Law and Policy • LAWU 4183 Technology Law • LAWU 4402 Criminal Justice and Public Policy • LAWU 4861 Independent Research • LAWU 4972-3 Seminar Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All bulletins © 2022 University of Tulsa. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).