Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Undergraduate / Intercollegial Programs / Digital Media Technologies, Minor Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate About This Bulletin Academic Calendar About Temple University Academic Policies Campuses Tuition and Fees Student Financial Aid Academic Programs General Education Intercollegial Programs Digital Media Technologies, Minor Environmental Programs Mathematical Economics Temple University, Japan Campus Schools, Colleges, and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate and Professional Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Digital Media Technologies, Minor About Requirements The Digital Media Technologies Minor is an interdisciplinary minor offered through the Department of Media Studies and Production (MSP) within the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication and the Department of Computer and Information Sciences (CIS) within the College of Science and Technology. This minor is designed to expand students' knowledge of the information age and enable them to share communications over the internet using fast evolving, emerging technologies. The minor is available to undergraduate students in Media Studies and Production, Computer & Information Science, as well as other departments and colleges. Upon completion of the minor, students should be able to demonstrate the following competencies: Use technology to integrate internet content with computers and mobile devices. Design and implement content for various digital media, utilizing database technologies. Critically analyze decisions made regarding the use of technology, specifically in the social and ethical domains. Understand the impact of current and emerging technologies on communications, both locally and globally. Create effective written communications make professional presentations. Analyze and solve problems efficiently. Transfer credits are not accepted for credit for the minor. Contact Information: Sally Kyvernitis, CIS Faulty Advisor Science Education and Research Center, Room 330 215-204-2030 sallyk@temple.edu Hector Postigo, MSP Faculty Advisor Annenberg Hall, Room 115 215-204-7398 hector.postigo@temple.edu Minor Requirements Students with a GPA of 2.00 or more may declare this minor by contacting either CST advising (215-204-2890) or Klein advising (215-204-5273). See additional Grade Requirements below. Three (3) of the Digital Media Technologies minor courses must be distinct from the student's major. Students should see their CST or Klein advisor for course substitutions. Students without a CIS background should begin their CIS courses in their Junior year or earlier. Course List Code Title Credit Hours Two Required MSP Courses: Select one of the following: 3-4 MSP 1701 Introduction to Media Production MSP 2701 Intermediate Video Production 1 MSP 2751 Audio for Media 1 MSP 2741 Introduction to Internet Studies and Web Authoring 1 3 Two Required CIS Courses: Select two courses from the following: 8 CIS 1052 Introduction to Web Technology and Programming CIS 1056 Advanced Web Technology and Programming CIS 2305 Mobile Computing Technologies 1 CIS 3308 Web Application Programming 1 CIS 3342 Server-Side Web Application Development 1 CIS 3344 Client-Side Scripting for the Web 1 CIS 3515 Introduction to Mobile Application Development 1 Two Electives: One CIS elective and one MSP elective are required. However, MSP students may choose two CIS electives instead and CIS students may choose two MSP electives instead. Select two courses from the following: 7-9 MSP Elective Options MSP 4741 Emergent Media Production MSP 4221 Information Technology Policy 1 MSP 4252 Law and Ethics of Digital Media MSP 4541 Mobile Media MSP 4614 Creating a Media Business CIS Elective Options CIS 2305 Mobile Computing Technologies 1,2 any other CIS 2000+ level course 1 Total Credit Hours 21-24 1 This course requires additional prerequisites outside of the Digital Media Technology Minor coursework. 2 May satisfy a CIS Elective only if CIS 2305 was not taken as a Required CIS Course. Elective Requirements All prerequisites must be completed to enroll in minor courses or permission from both the faculty advisor and instructor must be obtained prior to registration. Grade Requirements Minor credit is not given for grades below C-. Students must maintain at least a 2.00 grade point average in the program to successfully complete this minor. Residency Requirements At least 4 courses required for the minor must be completed at Temple. At least 2 CIS courses and at least 2 MSP courses must be completed at Temple. Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel