Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management / Hospitality Management, M.S. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Hospitality Management, M.S. Sport Business, M.S. Sport Business Executive Program, M.S. Travel and Tourism, M.S. Graduate Certificate: Destination Management Graduate Certificate: Event Management Graduate Certificate: Global Tourism Graduate Certificate: Service Excellence Graduate Certificate: Tourism Analytics Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Hospitality Management, M.S. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts SCHOOL OF SPORT, TOURISM AND HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT About the Program The goal of the M.S. program in Hospitality Management is to develop advanced professionals in the hospitality field with emphasis on marketing, operations, and event management. Education should enable professionals in this field to be expert managers, marketers, and planners in the public, private, and commercial sectors. The program prepares students to be middle-level and, eventually, upper-level managers within the hospitality industry. The degree program is based not only on the practical application of management techniques, but also on the theoretical foundation that defines the profession. This makes the degree program clearly distinct from generic management curricula that do not include an industry-specific core. Students interested in studying at the doctoral level should refer to the Ph.D. program in Business Administration with a concentration in Tourism and Sport offered by the Fox School of Business and Management. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 4 years Campus Location: Main, with some electives available online Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The degree program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis. Interdisciplinary Study: The program encourages interdisciplinary coursework, research, and interactions among faculty and students with interest in management, information technology, and research. Study Abroad: Students who wish to do their internships abroad work closely with the Center for Student Professional Development, which assists with the necessary contacts and supervision. Areas of Specialization: Students may select from a series of rotating elective courses in the following areas of interest: Event Management Hospitality Operations Management Tourism and Hospitality Marketing Job Prospects: Students typically find placement in event management, hotel marketing, hotel operations, hotel and resort management, restaurant management, venue and convention management, and other fields within the industry. Financing Opportunities: Students are automatically considered for merit scholarships from the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management (STHM) at the time of admission. Scholarships are awarded on the basis of a student’s academic history and professional experience. Teaching and Research Assistantships within STHM are reserved for students who are capable of teaching undergraduate classes in specialized academic areas or assisting in faculty research. Graduate Externships are also available in a variety of areas around the university. Only admitted students may be awarded assistantships and externships. Teaching Assistants (TAs), Research Assistants (RAs), and Graduate Externs (GEs) are expected to provide between 5 and 20 hours per week of service throughout the academic year. A nine-month stipend and partial or full (up to 9 credits) tuition remission for the Fall and Spring terms are offered for TAs and RAs, depending on the number of hours worked. GEs receive a stipend only. Applications for assistantships and externships are not evaluated until a Graduate School application and all appropriate materials have been received. The evaluation of applicants for Teaching and Research Assistantships and Graduate Externships begins by March and continues until all positions have been filled. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: December 15 – Early Admissions Deadline March 1 – Priority Scholarship Deadline and International Deadline June 30 – Final Application Deadline Applications are processed as they arrive through the deadline. Late applications may be considered for admission if space is available. APPLY ONLINE to this STHM graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 2 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members familiar with academic competence and/or past or current work supervisors. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: All applicants must present credentials that are the equivalent of the appropriate baccalaureate degree at Temple University. Statement of Goals: In 500 words or less, describe your short-term and long-term professional goals. Explain how this program will help you attain those goals. Standardized Test Scores: GMAT/GRE: Scores may be requested based on the applicant's academic and/or professional background. Candidates with an undergraduate GPA below 3.0 are required to submit valid GMAT or GRE test scores. Consult an admissions advisor with any questions. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 Duolingo: 110 PTE Academic: 68 Resume: Current resume or CV required. Transfer Credit: Graduate credits from an accredited institution may be transferred into the program. The credits must be equivalent to coursework offered in the Master of Science in Hospitality Management and cannot have been used to complete another degree either at Temple University or another institution. The grade must be a "B" (3.0 GPA) or better in order to transfer. The maximum number of credits a student may transfer is 6. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required Beyond the Baccalaureate: 30 Required Courses: Year 1 Fall Credit Hours THM 5311 Service Management for the Tourism and Hospitality Industry 3 THM 5315 Strategic Tourism and Hospitality Marketing 1.5 THM 5601 Service Industry Analytics 3 Elective1 1.5 Term Credit Hours 9 Spring THM 5313 Financial Mgt Tour/Hosp 3 THM 5602 Service Experience Design 3 Elective(s)1 3 Term Credit Hours 9 Summer Select one of the following: 3 STHM 9995 Master's Project THM 5485 Graduate Internship Elective1,2 Term Credit Hours 3 Year 2 Fall THM 5316 Strategic Management in the Tourism and Hospitality Industry 3 THM 5317 Tourism and Hospitality Management Consulting Project 3 Elective(s)1 3 Term Credit Hours 9 Total Credit Hours: 30 1 Selection of electives requires the approval of the Academic Director. 2 This elective is only to be taken if an elective is missed in a prior term. Approved Electives Students may select from the courses below, with the understanding that not all courses may be offered: Course List Code Title Credit Hours SRM 5243 Event Management 1 3 THM 5312 Legal Issues for Hospitality and Event Enterprises 1.5 THM 5315 Strategic Tourism and Hospitality Marketing 1.5 THM 5322 Strategic Brand Management 1.5 THM 5327 Customer Relationship Management in Tourism and Hospitality 1.5 THM 5329 New Media and Distribution 1.5 THM 5331 Hospitality Operations Management 1.5 THM 5334 The Business of Event Management 1.5 THM 5335 Effective Sales Management 1.5 THM 5336 Revenue Management and Hotel Analytics 1.5 THM 5341 Destination Events - A Global Perspective 3 THM 5343 Cultural Intelligence 1 3 THM 5344 Crisis, Risk and Disaster Management 1 3 THM 5603 Food and Beverage Management 1.5 THM 5604 Event Logistics and Risk Management 1.5 THM 5605 Entrepreneurial Thinking for Hospitality and Event Industries 1.5 THM 5606 Hospitality Cost Control 1.5 1 Selection of SRM 5243, THM 5343, and/or THM 5344 require the approval of the Academic Director. Culminating Event: Successful completion of coursework earns the student the M.S. degree in Hospitality Management. Key to completion of the degree is the student's experience undertaking STHM 9995 Master's Project or THM 5485 Graduate Internship. Contacts Program Web Address: https://sthm.temple.edu/graduate-programs/master-of-science-in-hospitality-management/ Department Information: School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management 111 Speakman Hall 1810 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6083 sthm@temple.edu 215-204-8701 Submission Address for Application Materials: https://foxgraduate.force.com/ERx_Forms__Portal_Login?type=sthm Department Contacts: Assistant Director of Graduate Enrollment: Michelle Siporin michelle.siporin@temple.edu 215-204-8701 Assistant Dean and Academic Advisor: Heather Blackburn, Ed.D. hblackburn@temple.edu Academic Director: Michael F. Sheridan, M.T.H.M. michael.sheridan@temple.edu 215-204-6705 Chairperson: Xiang Li, Ph.D. Department of Tourism and Hospitality Management robertli@temple.edu Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel