Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Undergraduate / Schools, Colleges, and Divisions / University College / ProRanger Philadelphia Program Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate About This Bulletin Academic Calendar About Temple University Academic Policies Campuses Tuition and Fees Student Financial Aid Academic Programs General Education Intercollegial Programs Temple University, Japan Campus Schools, Colleges, and Divisions Tyler School of Art & Architecture Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts Boyer College of Music & Dance School of Theater, Film and Media Arts College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Fox School of Business and Management College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication College of Public Health School of Social Work College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management University College Bachelor of General Studies in General Studies ProRanger Philadelphia Program Certificate in National Park Service Management Postbaccalaureate Certificate in National Park Service Management Certificate in Specialized Studies in Science and Mathematics Certificate in Sustainability Division of University Studies Course Descriptions Graduate and Professional Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty ProRanger Philadelphia Program The ProRanger program is an academic and technical skills training and internship program that is cooperatively administered by the National Park Service and Temple University. The program was established to recruit and train law enforcement park rangers for the National Park Service. After successfully graduating from Temple University and meeting all program requirements and program standards, ProRangers are eligible for non-competitive conversion to a position as a law enforcement ranger within the National Park Service. Students must apply for positions and be selected under the applicable hiring authority. Temple students who have been accepted into the ProRanger Philadelphia program will be required to enroll in the Certificate in National Park Service Management and complete the full complement of academic and training experiences. Participants will take coursework during the academic year to complete the Certificate in National Park Service Management. During the summer periods, the ProRanger interns will be assigned to an internship at a National Park Service site and participate in an academic course that accompanies the internship. The final experience as a ProRanger intern is the Park Ranger Law Enforcement Academy (PRLEA) at Temple University. While the primary duties of the ProRanger graduate is protecting people and property, prospective ProRanger interns do not have to be Criminal Justice majors, and students from any academic major or background may apply. More importantly, a ProRanger intern will have an aptitude for working with people with diverse backgrounds, have an interest in the outdoors, resource protection, history and the environment, and have a high standard of ethical behavior. Please see www.temple.edu/proranger for more information about becoming a ProRanger. Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel