Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management / Travel and Tourism, M.S. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Hospitality Management, M.S. Sport Business, M.S. Sport Business Executive Program, M.S. Travel and Tourism, M.S. Graduate Certificate: Destination Management Graduate Certificate: Event Management Graduate Certificate: Global Tourism Graduate Certificate: Service Excellence Graduate Certificate: Tourism Analytics Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Travel and Tourism, M.S. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts SCHOOL OF SPORT, TOURISM AND HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT About the Program The goal of the Master of Science in Travel and Tourism program is to provide a focused tourism curriculum for those wishing to pursue a career in or current employees seeking to advance within a tourism organization. Graduates of the program gain: in-depth knowledge of the size, scope, functioning, and issues facing the global tourism industry; the ability to understand, assess, and respond to challenges that are presented to the sustainability of the global tourism industry; enhanced analytical and critical thinking skills; and preparedness for career advancement within the global tourism industry. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 4 years, but the program is designed to be completed over 13 months. Campus Location: Online, with a mix of sessions with the instructor, smaller team sessions, and independent work by students. Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The degree program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis. Affiliations: Coursework from the Fox School of Business and Management is required for the Travel and Tourism M.S. program. The School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management (STHM) is affiliated with the Fox School. Job Prospects: Students who are not already working in the industry typically find placements in convention and visitors bureaus; convention centers; destination marketing organizations (DMOs); tour operations; tourism attractions; local, state, and national tourism bureaus; and chambers of commerce. Financing Opportunities: Students are automatically considered for merit scholarships from STHM's graduate programs at the time of admission. Scholarships are awarded on the basis of a student's academic history and professional experience. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: * * APPLICATIONS will next be accepted for FALL 2023 ADMISSION * * Fall: December 15 – Early Admissions Deadline March 1 – Priority Scholarship Deadline and International Deadline June 30 – Final Application Deadline Spring: August 1 – International Deadline November 1 – Final Application Deadline Applications are processed as they arrive through the deadline. Late applications may be considered for admission if space is available. APPLY ONLINE to this STHM graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 2 From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members familiar with academic competence and/or past or current work supervisors. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: All applicants must present credentials that are the equivalent of the appropriate baccalaureate degree at Temple University. Statement of Goals: In 500 words or less, describe your short-term and long-term professional goals. Explain how this program will help you attain those goals. Standardized Test Scores: GMAT/GRE: Scores may be requested based on the applicant's academic and/or professional background. Candidates with an undergraduate GPA below 3.0 are required to submit valid GMAT or GRE test scores. Consult an admissions advisor with any questions. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 Duolingo: 110 PTE Academic: 68 Resume: Current resume or CV required. Transfer Credit: Graduate credits from an accredited institution may be transferred into the program. The credits must be equivalent to coursework offered in the Master of Science in Travel and Tourism and cannot have been used to complete another degree either at Temple University or another institution. The grade must be a "B" (3.0 GPA) or better in order to transfer. The maximum number of credits a student may transfer is 6. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required Beyond the Baccalaureate: 30 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses THM 5321 Tourism Analytics 3 THM 5323 Sustainable Tourism Development 3 THM 5328 Tourism Economics and Policy 3 THM 5341 Destination Events - A Global Perspective 3 THM 5342 Destination Management and Marketing 3 THM 5343 Cultural Intelligence 3 THM 5344 Crisis, Risk and Disaster Management 3 THM 5345 Understanding Tourism in the 21st Century 3 Fox School of Business and Management Course STAT 5001 Quantitative Methods for Business 3 Capstone Course THM 5485 Graduate Internship 3 or STHM 9995 Master's Project Total Credit Hours 30 Culminating Event: Completion of a graduate internship (THM 5485) or master's project (STHM 9995) constitutes the culminating event. Graduate Internship: The graduate internship utilizes a field placement with emphasis on acquisition and application of practical skills. A total of 180 contact hours are completed in an agency, under the supervision of both the University internship coordinator and the agency-designated supervisor. A reflection report and completion of applied weekly activities are required. Master's Project: Students who have industry experience relevant to their program are able to complete an applied project instead of a graduate internship. The project topic is agreed to by the academic advisor and the student. Contacts Program Web Address: https://sthm.temple.edu/graduate-programs/master-of-science-in-travel-and-tourism/ Department Information: School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management 111 Speakman Hall 1810 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122-6083 sthm@temple.edu 215-204-8701 Submission Address for Application Materials: https://foxgraduate.force.com/ERx_Forms__Portal_Login?type=sthm Department Contacts: Assistant Director of Graduate Enrollment: Michelle Siporin michelle.siporin@temple.edu 215-204-8701 Manager of Student Services: James Alton, M.S.Ed. james.alton@temple.edu 215-204-7140 Academic Director: Ben Altschuler, Ph.D. benjamin.altschuler@temple.edu 215-204-8924 Chairperson: Xiang Li, Ph.D. Department of Tourism and Hospitality Management robertli@temple.edu Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel