Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / School of Pharmacy / Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Labeling, Advertising and Promotions Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy Global Clinical and Pharmacovigilance Regulations, M.S. Pharmaceutical Regulatory Sciences, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, Ph.D. Pharmacy, Pharm.D. Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, M.S. Graduate Certificate: Advanced Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing and Regulatory Affairs Graduate Certificate: Food Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Labeling, Advertising and Promotions Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Manufacturing: Process Development and Analysis Graduate Certificate: Sterile Process Manufacturing Graduate Certificate: Validation Sciences School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Labeling, Advertising and Promotions About Admission Program Requirements Contacts SCHOOL OF PHARMACY About the Certificate The graduate and post-master's certificate in Pharmaceutical Labeling, Advertising and Promotions is intended to produce well-qualified experts with knowledge of the U.S. and global regulations governing the labeling, advertising, and promotions of pharmaceuticals and related products. Coursework addresses the complexity of the PI (Package Insert), showing how it must delineate every aspect of the product, from its dosage form to its unique storage requirements and dosage information. Topics include how the PI must be incorporated into print and internet advertising and promotions for products and also the requirements for television ads. Differences in the regulations in key world markets are also discussed. Time Limit for Certificate Completion: 4 years Campus Location: Fort Washington and Online Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The certificate may be completed on a part-time basis. NOTE: International students may not be eligible to apply for a student visa based on admission to the certificate program. Please contact the School of Pharmacy's program coordinator for more information. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: Non-matriculated students may take up to 9 credits of coursework before applying to the post-baccalaureate certificate program. The post-master's certificate cannot be taken on a non-matriculated basis. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall and Spring admissions are on a rolling basis. APPLY HERE to the post-baccalaureate certificate program. APPLY HERE to the post-master's certificate program. Master's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: Applicants completing the certificate program to earn a post-master's certificate must hold a master's degree in Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: Applicants completing the certificate program to earn a post-baccalaureate certificate must hold a B.S. degree in Biochemistry, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, or a health-related discipline. Other: Applicants who did not earn their master's degree from Temple University's School of Pharmacy must have sufficient industry experience and familiarity with the basic tenets of regulatory affairs and quality assurance to pursue the post-master's certificate. As part of the application, these applicants must include: a letter of request to the Assistant Dean of Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance indicating the courses to be pursued and citing the applicant's industry experience; a copy of their resume; and a photocopy of their final transcript from the institution where the master's or doctoral degree was earned. Certificate Requirements Number of Credits Required to Complete the Certificate: 12 Required Courses:1 Course List Code Title Credit Hours QARA 5532 Global Labeling Regulation: Principles and Practices 3 QARA 5533 Requirements for Product Labeling and Advertising 3 QARA 5592 Food and Drug Law 2 3 QARA 5611 Regulation of Advertising and Promotions 3 Total Credit Hours 12 1 Post-master's students who have already completed one or more of the required certificate courses as part of the M.S. in Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance may, with prior written approval of the RAQA Office, complete one or more of the following electives: QARA 5507 Regulation of Non-Prescription Healthcare Products, QARA 5535 Advanced Topics in Labeling Development, QARA 5544 Regulatory Intelligence, QARA 5605 Advanced Topics in Food and Drug Law, and/or, when the special topic relates to issues of labeling, advertising, and promotions, QARA 5650 Special Topics in Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance. 2 Graduate students who earned their M.S. in Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance at Temple University are expected to have completed QARA 5592 as part of the M.S. program. They may, with prior written approval of the RAQA Office, substitute one of the following electives as their fourth course in the certificate: QARA 5507 Regulation of Non-Prescription Healthcare Products, QARA 5535 Advanced Topics in Labeling Development, QARA 5544 Regulatory Intelligence, QARA 5594 Regulation of Dietary Supplements and Functional Foods, or QARA 5606 Regulatory Strategy: Discovery to Approval. GPA Required to be Awarded the Certificate: 3.0 minimum Contacts Certificate Program Web Address: https://www.temple.edu/pharmacy_qara/certificates.htm Department Information: Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Program 425 Commerce Drive, Suite 175 Fort Washington, PA 19034-2728 qara@temple.edu 267-468-8560 Mailing Address for Application Materials: Temple University Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Program 425 Commerce Drive, Suite 175 Fort Washington, PA 19034-2728 Department Contacts: Admissions: Wendy Lebing, MALD, M.S. Program Coordinator qara@temple.edu 267-468-8560 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel