Skip to Content Apply Support TU Login People Finder Maps Social Media Contact ﻿ About TU Admission Academics Campus Life Research Athletics Academics Kendall College of Arts & Sciences Collins College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Continuing Education Departments & Schools Offices & Services Admission and Financial Aid Alexander Health Center Business Office Collins Fitness Center Financial Aid McFarlin Library Office of the Registrar Offices Explore A-Z Index Arts @ TU Courses Degrees Employment Faculty Directory Maps Virtual Tour Resources Academic Calendar Campus Security Contact Events Calendar Information Technology TU Portal Web Site Issue Report Connect With TU ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ Social Media Directory University of Tulsa May 31, 2022 2021-2022 Graduate Bulletin Select a Bulletin 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Graduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Law Bulletin 2020-2021 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] Global Search Bulletin Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Academic Units Other Content Entire Bulletin Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Bulletin Home All Programs All Courses The Henry Kendall College of Arts and Sciences The Collins College of Business The College of Engineering and Natural Sciences The Oxley College of Health Sciences The College of Law Certificate Programs Academic Calendar Accreditation and Assessment Admission Graduate Education at The University of Tulsa Academic Policies Graduate Financial Assistance Tuition and Fees Student Services Students Rights, Freedoms, and Responsibilities Resident Faculty My Bulletin HELP 2021-2022 Graduate Bulletin Admission Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Admission Procedures International Applicants Non-Degree Seeking Student Status Admission Procedures Admission to certain degree programs may be limited due to available resources and academic requirements. The number of students admitted each year is restricted to those with high qualifications. An applicant must hold a baccalaureate or higher degree from a college or university approved by a recognized regional accrediting agency. Applicants, having selected a major field of study, must meet requirements set by the program of study and the Graduate School. Such applicants whose academic work meets or exceeds major department requirements are admitted upon approval by the major program administration and the Dean of the Graduate School. A grade point average of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale in the undergraduate major is generally required, but requirements may vary between programs and may be higher than 3.0. Each student must satisfy course prerequisites for the graduate program before being officially admitted to the degree program. The major program advisor and the Dean of the Graduate School may approve conditional admission, but a student is usually required to remove all such conditions before beginning the course of study leading to a graduate degree, except in some cases when a limited number of undergraduate courses are required to satisfy deficiencies. Applicants for admission to some graduate programs must take the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) General Tests. Applicants for admission to graduate programs in the College of Business Administration may take the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) or the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) General Tests. Academic units reserve the right to waive this requirement. The GMAT requirement for all M.B.A. programs (online, on-campus, and part-time) is waived from June 2020 through May 2023. The GRE requirement for the graduate programs in computer engineering, electrical engineering, and museum science and management is waived for the 2021-2022 academic year. Information regarding times and places where the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) General Tests are given is available from the Educational Testing Service, 609-771-7670, or www.ets.org. Information regarding times and places where the GMAT is given is available by calling 1-800-717-4628 or www.mba.com. All students seeking admission to the Graduate School must follow these steps: Make application electronically through the Graduate School website www.utulsa.edu/graduate. Submit a nonrefundable processing fee of $60 with each application. (This fee is waived for graduates of The University of Tulsa or those who are participants in the Ronald E. McNair Scholars program). Submit official transcripts of all college- or university-level work.* (Transcripts submitted with an application become the property of the University and will not be returned to the applicant.) Submit all required standardized test scores at time of application.* Submit two letters of recommendation.* Submit a current resumé or curricular vitae.* Submit a Certification of Financial Resources (CFR) at the time of admission (international students only). Submit proof of English proficiency at the time of application (international students only). *Certain programs may have different application requirements depending on academic level, students’ professional/academic background, or program focus. Applicant’s character, integrity, and general fitness to practice a particular profession may also be considered in the admissions process. Normally, 10 business days are required to process an application after all materials have been received in the Graduate School Office. Applications are then sent to the academic unit for review which may take another 10 business days for programs with rolling admission. Programs with fixed application deadlines only review applications at certain intervals throughout the applications cycle. Students are encouraged to apply at least two to three months prior to their desired start date to allow for varying processing and decision times. International students should apply at least three months before the start of the program to allow time for visa processing. The Graduate School maintains ownership of all application and application-related documents and these materials cannot be returned to the applicant. Applications and transcripts will be held on file, and admission will be valid for one calendar year with academic unit approval. Unless the Graduate School Office is instructed otherwise, application credentials will be destroyed if enrollment is not completed within one calendar year. Students admitted provisionally are expected to fulfill all of their provisional conditions within the first semester of graduate study. International Applicants International applicants must hold a degree comparable to a regionally accredited U.S. bachelor’s degree and must have a strong academic performance comparable to a “B” or above average grades. TU uses the institution’s grading scale and does not necessarily convert an applicant’s grades to a four-point scale. Transcripts sent to the Graduate School must be accompanied by a certified English translation, and a clear explanation of the grading system used at the institution. If an applicant is admitted, an I-20 will not be issued until a Certification of Financial Resources (CFR) is provided by the applicant. English Language Proficiency Citizens of the following countries are not required to provide proof of English language proficiency: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Dominica, Falkland Islands, Ghana, Grenada, Guernsey, Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica, Jersey, Montserrat, New Zealand, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, South Africa, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos, and the United Kingdom. Applicants who have graduated from a U.S. high school, college, or university are not required to provide proof of English language proficiency. The following minimum test scores meet The University of Tulsa Graduate School English language proficiency reequirement: TOEFL - 80 IELTS - 6.0 Duolingo - 105 Exam scores are valid for two years after the test date. Official scores must be sent directly to the University by the respective testing agency. Specific programs require higher scores that those listed above, including the following: Clinical Psychology: TOEFL - 90, IELTS - 6.5, Duolingo - 110 I/O Psychology: TOEFL - 90, IELTS - 6.5, Duolingo - 110 All Business Programs: TOEFL - 90, IELTS - 6.5, Duolingo - 110 Chemical Engineering: TOEFL - 85, IELTS - 6.5, Duolingo -110 Geosciences: TOEFL - 85, IELTS - 6.5, Duolingo -110 All DNP Programs: TOEFL - 90, IELTS - 6.5, Duolingo -110 Master of Athletic Training: TOEFL - 90, IELTS - 6.5, Duolingo - 110 Speech-Language Pathology Master’s Program: TOEFL - 90, IELTS - 6.5, Duolingo - 110 Upon petition, and at the discretion of the Graduate Dean, English language proficiency test score requirements may be waived for applicants who have received a degree from an institution at which the language of instruction is English. All international graduate students must check in with the Center for Global Engagement upon first arriving on campus, prior to enrolling for each semester, and prior to departing the country for vacation, professional conferences, or upon degree completion. The Graduate School will not enroll an international graduate student on a student visa unless the student is approved for enrollment by the Center for Global Engagement. Failure to meet routinely with the Center for Global Engagement may adversely affect an international student’s visa status. Non-Degree Seeking Status It is possible to apply to the Graduate School as a non-degree seeking student. Admission to the Graduate School as a non-degree seeking student is outside of any graduate program; it is understood that enrollment as a non-degree seeking student does not lead to a graduate degree. Students are admitted to this category for certificate programs, general coursework or transfer purposes. Non-degree seeking students are required to meet the regular admission standards of the Graduate School. If the non-degree seeking student applies and is officially admitted to a degree program, six hours of coursework taken as a non-degree seeking student may be applied toward a master’s degree and up to 12 hours of coursework taken as a non-degree seeking student may be applied toward a doctoral degree. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All bulletins © 2022 University of Tulsa. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).