Skip to Content Apply Support TU Login People Finder Maps Social Media Contact ﻿ About TU Admission Academics Campus Life Research Athletics Academics Kendall College of Arts & Sciences Collins College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Continuing Education Departments & Schools Offices & Services Admission and Financial Aid Alexander Health Center Business Office Collins Fitness Center Financial Aid McFarlin Library Office of the Registrar Offices Explore A-Z Index Arts @ TU Courses Degrees Employment Faculty Directory Maps Virtual Tour Resources Academic Calendar Campus Security Contact Events Calendar Information Technology TU Portal Web Site Issue Report Connect With TU ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ Social Media Directory University of Tulsa May 31, 2022 2021-2022 Graduate Bulletin Select a Bulletin 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Graduate Bulletin 2021-2022 Law Bulletin 2020-2021 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2020-2021 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2019-2020 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2018-2019 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2017-2018 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2016-2017 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2015-2016 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Graduate Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] 2014-2015 Law Bulletin [ARCHIVED BULLETIN] Global Search Bulletin Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Academic Units Other Content Entire Bulletin Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Bulletin Home All Programs All Courses The Henry Kendall College of Arts and Sciences The Collins College of Business The College of Engineering and Natural Sciences The Oxley College of Health Sciences The College of Law Certificate Programs Academic Calendar Accreditation and Assessment Admission Graduate Education at The University of Tulsa Academic Policies Graduate Financial Assistance Tuition and Fees Student Services Students Rights, Freedoms, and Responsibilities Resident Faculty My Bulletin HELP 2021-2022 Graduate Bulletin Student Services Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Student Services Other Academic Resources Services and Programs Available to Graduate Students Student Services Student Access The University of Tulsa is committed to ensuring equal access to academic and co-curricular opportunities for students with physical, psychological, intellectual, and sensory disabilities at TU. Student Access staff will work with students to determine and provide reasonable accommodations and services as well as advocacy and referrals when appropriate. In addition, Pathways, coordinated by Student Access staff, offers social and educational programming and coaching for students with Autism Spectrum and social anxiety disorders. Student Access staff also assist students in arranging testing accommodations, and the Testing Center offers a distraction-reduced environment in which students can take exams with approval. Contact 918-631-2315 or testing@utulsa.edu for more information about testing accommodations. Information concerning special services and facilities for students in need of accommodations may be obtained by contacting the Student Access staff at 918-631-2315 or studentaccess@utulsa.edu. A copy of the 504/ADA policy may be obtained here. Student Success Initiatives The primary objective of the Office of Student Success Initiatives (SSI) is to determine how best to assist students so they become engaged learners who persist in their studies and meet their goals. The SSI office achieves this goal by working collaboratively with various campus constituencies to develop, implement, and maintain data-informed initiatives that are designed to enhance student success and persistence, and assessed to ensure that programming is effectively meeting the continuously changing needs of TU’s student population. SSI also coordinates campus tutoring efforts. For students interested in securing a tutor, please contact the tutoring coordinator in the SSI office at tutoring@utulsa.edu. Writing Center Located in McFarlin Library and staffed by the Department of English, the Helen N. Wallace Writing Center provides free consultations on writing projects for the campus community in a relaxed, comfortable, and informal setting. Consultants work with writers in a collaborative effort to foster engagement in the writing process as a whole, from generating ideas to commenting on final drafts. Students may schedule appointments online. Walk-in consultations may also be available, although online booking is the only way to guarantee an appointment. Although copyediting services are not available through the Writing Center, consultants are trained to suggest and demonstrate proofreading strategies. See the Student Guide to The University of Tulsa Writing Program, which is required in every writing course, for more information. McFarlin Library McFarlin Library, named in honor of the original donors, Mr. and Mrs. Robert McFarlin, serves as the academic heart of the University. Students at The University of Tulsa have direct access to the library’s holdings of more than three million items that include more than 54,000 electronic journals and over 400,000 electronic books. The library collection also includes digitized University of Tulsa dissertations and archival materials, and extensive collections of electronic reference sources and databases, as well as print resources such as books, serials, government documents, microform and maps. The library’s world-class Special Collections are available for graduate and undergraduate research and include extensive collections of manuscripts, historical archives, art objects, photographs and memorabilia in range of subjects that include Modernist literature, Native American history and the American West. Study Abroad The University of Tulsa is committed to offering its graduate students opportunities to acquire international and cross-cultural experience and learn a foreign language. Students can choose from several study abroad options, including summer, semester and year-long programs. TU offers a wide selection of international study options where students can choose courses in all disciplines and apply them towards their degrees, as well as satisfy other graduation requirements. TU has international exchange partnerships with universities throughout the world. The Center for Global Engagement office can also arrange overseas internships for credit or research opportunities. In addition to consulting and securing approval from their graduate program advisor and the Graduate School, interested students must visit the Center for Global Engagement office six months prior to the semester in which they wish to study abroad and must submit a study abroad application. The Center for Career Development and Professional Engagement The Center for Career Development and Professional Engagement offers a lifetime of career assistance to students and alumni of the University. A qualified staff of career coaches helps students and alumni explore career options, develop professional skills, gain practical experience, and build connections in the TU community. In addition to individual support provided including career assessment tools, resume and cover letter review, interview preparation, and job search strategies, the Center hosts a wide variety of programming and networking events on career related topics. Also, the Center works directly with employers to post internship, experiential learning, and post-graduate job opportunities on Handshake, our online career services platform, as well as host career fairs and arrange on-campus interviews with our students and alumni. Please visit www.canecareers.com for more information. Financial Wellness The Financial Wellness Team provides financial counseling and education to all students at the University. The goal is to ensure that all students understand the investment required to successfully complete their education while planning for their future. The team provides students with the tools and resources they need to for financial growth and to achieve personal financial success. Financial Counselors understand the pressures associated with being a college student and are here to help students navigate such pressures in their lives. Counselors can assist students in understanding financial values and priorities and offer guidance towards financing education, managing student loan debt, budgeting, credit cards, credit building, car-buying, taxes and other personal finance topics. Health Services The Alexander Health Center (AHC) provides medical care to students for both acute minor illness and preventive care. The AHC has the capability to perform routine lab work (including pregnancy and STI testing) onsite, immunizations (including the flu vaccine), allergy shots, well-woman exams, and health education. Visit charges, labs, medications, and any fees accrued will be billed to the student’s insurance. The AHC is staffed by a nurse practitioner, as well as a caring team of staff and nurses. Office hours are Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (closed 12:00 p.m. to 1:00 p.m.). Students are encouraged to call the AHC at 918-631-2241 to schedule appointments. While the AHC does its best to accommodate the needs of all students, appointment times do fill up quickly. Careful adherence to the schedule is observed to ensure all students scheduled get adequate time with a provider to address their medical needs. Students should bring their identification and proof of insurance with them to their visit. The AHC does not provide in-house imaging. Students will be referred out for imaging studies (i.e. X-rays or CT scans), which will be followed up and addressed by the AHC care team. Referrals placed to specialty care may also sometimes be required. The AHC staff do their best to ensure that referrals are placed to an organization covered by the patient’s insurance. All costs incurred at outside facilities (co-pays, procedure fees, etc.), as well as the cost of prescription medications, are the responsibility of the student. For more information on the student health insurance requirement, see Insurance Requirements in the Tuition and Fees section of this Bulletin. Immunization Requirements. State law requires that all students who attend Oklahoma colleges and universities provide written documentation of immunization against hepatitis B and measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR). Students who reside in on-campus housing are also required to be immunized against meningococcal disease (meningitis). For more information on health services and immunization requirements, visit the AHC website. All contacts at the AHC are strictly confidential as protected by law and professional ethics. No information will be released without a separate written consent form signed by the patient. It is University policy that the AHC does not issue excuses from class for illness. This is a matter between the student and the professor. See the AHC Notification of Medical Illness Policy on the AHC website. Counseling and Psychological Services Located in the Holmes Student Center, Counseling and Psychological Services offers clinical services to all students and a broad range of professional, educational and consultative services to faculty and staff. We are trained to help college students adjust to the changes and transitions of college life as well as to help faculty and staff function more effectively in their roles. The staff is devoted to helping with any concerns that might require psychological assistance. Speech, Language, and Hearing Testing and Therapy The University’s program in speech language pathology provides diagnostic testing in speech, language, and hearing along with therapy services for individuals of all ages. There is a fee for these services and university students and employees receive a 20% discount. Scholarships are also available by application. A free screening clinic is available at the Mary K. Chapman Speech and Hearing Clinic on Fridays, by appointment, to determine if a significant communication problem exists. Although these screenings do not include detailed diagnostic or therapy services, they do include appropriate counseling, recommendations, and referrals. Call the clinic at 918-631-2504 for information. Student Life Student Life provides programs to enhance academic endeavors and leadership skills, counsels individual students regarding their problems, offers support and guidance to student organizations, and provides over 150 extracurricular and co-curricular activities that broaden students’ educational experiences. This office balances student care with accountability by handling student disciplinary matters, providing student complaint investigations, administering the alcohol policy, housing the ombudsman, and coordinating conduct adjudication. Student Organizations Student Organizations serve as a resource for student leaders, programming boards, and over 150 student organizations by fostering opportunities for learning and success through holistic advising and training of student leaders, operational support services, co-curricular program creation and development of purposeful and mutually beneficial partnerships across the University and the city of Tulsa. As the engagement hub on campus, students are empowered to participate in a diverse array of campus programs and organizational activities that encourage self-discovery, critical thought, peer connections, and the pursuit of personal passions. Multicultural Student Programs The Office of Multicultural Student Programs provides individual counseling and support for African, Asian, Hispanic, Native American, bisexual, gay, lesbian, and transgender students; advises student organizations related to these cultural groups; encourages involvement of students in these groups in all aspects of University life; and provides cross-cultural activities to promote understanding among students of all groups. Multicultural Student Programs include academic study groups, peer mentoring, and a wide variety of celebrations, seminars, and activities that focus on different cultures. True Blue Neighbors At the core of True Blue Neighbors lies extraordinary leadership, and exceptional students, staff and faculty who are committed to our great mission: “To build a better community, a better citizen, and a better University, through service.” Volunteers serve over 200 nonprofit organizations, churches, schools, and local municipal and government agencies completing thousands of hours every year. Community service and engagement continues to be an integral component of what being a Hurricane means, as well as a point of pride for our students, staff, and faculty members. Register to volunteer here. International Student and Scholar Services The Center for Global Engagement issues government immigration documents, supports, counsels and advocates for students on academic and personal matters, works to ensure student retention, assists international faculty, oversees the English Institute and the International Student Success Center, and offers various programming activities throughout the year. All University of Tulsa students and faculty who are not U.S. citizens are required to register with this office. The International Student Success Center offers English language support and workshops on various academic topics. Students who visit the International Student Success Center have the opportunity to build connections with fellow students in an inviting and culturally diverse atmosphere. The core International Student Success Center staff hold advanced degrees in linguistics, Teaching English as a Second Language or other related fields. Other Academic Resources Office of Research and Sponsored Programs The Office of Research and Sponsored Programs (ORSP) is responsible for the administration of all externally-funded research and sponsored program activity. Faculty, students, and staff at The University of Tulsa engage in a wide variety of research activities, participating in both externally-funded and University-funded scholarship. ORSP subscribes to a service which provides assistance in identifying sources of external support. In addition, ORSP provides information on program guidelines, assists in proposal development, and administers grants and contracts once they have been funded. ORSP also has programs to provide internal funding to faculty and students. As a federally funded research institution, TU must comply with federal regulations regarding the conduct of research. For example, any research project involving human subjects must be submitted to ORSP for approval by the Institutional Review Board (IRB). When animals are to be used in research, prior approval must be obtained from the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). A listing of many of these compliance issues may be found on the ORSP website along with further guidance on internal funding opportunities and services provided by ORSP. Information Technology The Information Technology (IT) department provides all students, staff and faculty with an individual TUNetID that gives access to such services as high-speed internet, the wireless network, an intranet portal, email, and file storage. Residential students have access to wireless connectivity in University-owned apartments and residence halls. For a complete overview of IT supported services at the University, visit the IT webpage. IT maintains computer labs at the Pauline M. Walter Academic Technology Center located in McFarlin Library. These labs are open 24 hours a day while classes are in session. The labs support high speed printers and an extensive array of software to facilitate teaching, learning, and research. The University of Tulsa also maintains numerous specialized teaching labs located across the campus. For admitted and enrolled students, information technology help may be obtained by visiting the IT webpage. The page contains helpful information on user account setup and reset. Visit help.utulsa.edu to find additional “how to” documents and resources. Personal assistance may be obtained by emailing help@utulsa.edu. IT service is available Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Gilcrease Museum: An American Experience In October, 2007, the City of Tulsa and TU agreed to an historic public-private partnership under which TU manages operations at The Thomas Gilcrease Institute of American History and Art, commonly known as the Gilcrease Museum, one of the country’s best facilities for the preservation and study of American art and history. The museum houses the world’s largest, most comprehensive collection of art and artifacts of the American West, including an unparalleled collection of Native American art and material. The partnership, which formally began on July 1, 2008, has resulted in numerous strategic opportunities for the museum, including streamlining its management structure, advancing and preserving the collection, and providing unparalleled opportunities for academic research of the museum’s extensive holdings. The Gilcrease partnership allows TU to leverage its nationally recognized academic resources in western American history, art history, anthropology, and archaeology to create a better understanding of the museum collection. The Helmerich Center for American Research, which opened in 2014, enhances scholarly opportunities at the Gilcrease Museum. Services and Programs Available to Graduate Students Competitive Research Grants and Awards The Graduate School and the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs offer several programs in which students may compete for awards. The purpose of the programs is to encourage students in their research endeavors and in the presentation of their scholarly works in a professional forum. These programs aid students with their research expenses (Student Research Grant Program) and assist with expenses associated with attendance at professional meetings to present their scholarly research (Student Travel Grants and Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards). For details, inquire at the Graduate School Office or the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs. Annual Student Research Colloquium Students, in conjunction with the Graduate School, organize an Annual Student Research Colloquium. This is held during the spring semester to give students additional public speaking experience and to encourage their research endeavors. The students’ presentations are judged according to criteria that are commonly used at scholarly professional meetings. The winners are announced and cash awards are presented at a Student Research Colloquium Awards Banquet. Graduate Student Association The Graduate Student Association helps organize the Annual Student Research Colloquium as well as other campus functions. The student members elect the association’s president, who conducts the organization’s meetings and also serves as a student member on the Graduate Council. The Graduate Student Association also provides funding for students to make presentations at professional meetings and conferences. Life Skills Workshop Series This workshop series provides TU graduate students with skills outside their disciplines that will build their professional competencies and maximize their options to succeed in their careers and lives. In addition to professional development skills, the series also deals with issues such as stress, ethical decisions, and other topics. The Graduate School recognizes the unique pressures that graduate students encounter during their academic studies. Each workshop, seminar, or panel discussion focuses on an issue that relates to the student’s academic career and beyond. For details about workshop dates, topics, and locations, call the Graduate School Office 918-631-2336 or visit the Life Skills workshop webpage on the Graduate School website. Honors Societies Phi Kappa Phi was founded in 1897 as the Lambda Sigma Eta Society at the University of Maine. In 1900, the society added chapters at the Pennsylvania State College (now Pennsylvania State University) and the University of Tennessee and was renamed Phi Kappa Phi. The University of Tulsa chapter, chartered in 1990, is one of over 250 chapters in the United States. Phi Kappa Phi elects members from all recognized branches of academic endeavor. Members are selected on the basis of high academic achievement and good character. Graduate students must have completed at least 18 graduate hours or the equivalent at their institution and rank in the top 10 percent of their class. Faculty, professional staff and alumni who achieve scholarly distinction may also be eligible. For additional information, contact Dr. Mark Buchheim. TU students may also join honor societies for specific fields of study, class or other criteria. A partial list may be found here. Graduate School Memberships The Graduate School is a member of the Council of Graduate Schools (CGS), and the Midwestern Association of Graduate Schools (MAGS) and enrolled students are eligible for awards offered by these groups. Awards include the CGS/UMI Distinguished Dissertation Award, and the MAGS Distinguished Master’s Thesis Award. In addition, since 1993 students and faculty of The University of Tulsa have benefited from its membership in Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU). ORAU is a consortium of 105 colleges and universities and a contractor for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) located in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. ORAU works with its member institutions to help their students and faculty gain access to federal research facilities throughout the country; to keep its members informed about opportunities for fellowship, scholarship, and research appointments; and to organize research alliances among its members. Through the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE), the DOE facility that ORAU operates, undergraduates, graduates, postgraduates, as well as faculty enjoy access to a multitude of opportunities for study and research. Students can participate in programs covering a wide variety of disciplines including business, earth sciences, epidemiology, engineering, physics, geological sciences, pharmacology, ocean sciences, biomedical sciences, nuclear chemistry, and mathematics. Appointment and program length range from one month to four years. Many of these programs are especially designed to increase the numbers of underrepresented minority students pursuing degrees in science- and engineering-related disciplines. A comprehensive listing of these programs and other opportunities, their disciplines, and details on locations and benefits can be found in the ORISE Catalog of Education and Training Programs, which is available at www.orau.gov/orise/educ.htm, or by calling either of the contacts below. ORAU’s Office of Partnership Development seeks opportunities for partnerships and alliances among ORAU’s members, private industry, and major federal facilities. Activities include faculty development programs, such as the Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Enhancement Awards, the Visiting Industrial Scholars Program, consortium research funding initiatives, faculty research, and support programs as well as services to chief research officers. For more information about ORAU and its programs contact: Brenton McLaury, Interim Dean of the Graduate School at 918-631-2336, University Partnerships Office at university.partnerships@orau.org and 865-576-1898, or visit the ORAU homepage www.orau.org. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All bulletins © 2022 University of Tulsa. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).