Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / Lewis Katz School of Medicine / Urban Bioethics, M.A. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Biomedical Sciences, M.S. Biomedical Sciences, Ph.D. Medicine, M.D. Physician Assistant, M.M.S. Urban Bioethics, M.A. Graduate Certificate: Narrative Medicine Graduate Certificate: Urban Bioethics Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Urban Bioethics, M.A. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts LEWIS KATZ SCHOOL OF MEDICINE About the Program The Master of Arts in Urban Bioethics (MAUB) is the nation’s only bioethics degree explicitly centered on health equity. The program provides a solid foundation in traditional bioethics along with practical training and resources for understanding and analyzing the ethics, values, and value conflicts that exist in urban settings. Students who pursue the MAUB gain practical, theoretical, and methodological skills to address extreme inequities of health and access to medical, legal, and other resources in disparate, diverse, and dense urban areas. Due to the far-reaching impact of bioethics, students are welcomed from a wide variety of educational and professional backgrounds, including medicine, policy, philosophy, and law. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 5 years Campus Location: Health Sciences Full-Time/Part-Time Status: The degree program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis. Interdisciplinary Study: The degree is designed for graduate students and professionals who face, or will soon face, the complexities and disparities of urban health, and want specialized training in the ethics, values, and politics of health care in our increasingly multidimensionally diverse society. Dual-degree students can take advantage of the inherent interdisciplinary nature of a dual degree by applying approved electives from their primary program toward the M.A., while stand-alone M.A. students take 15 credits of applicable electives to round out their degree. Six dual-degree programs are currently offered: M.D./M.A. in Urban Bioethics within the Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University D.P.T. in Physical Therapy/M.A. in Urban Bioethics with the Temple University College of Public Health M.A. in Philosophy/M.A. in Urban Bioethics with the Temple University College of Liberal Arts Ph.D. in Philosophy/M.A. in Urban Bioethics with the Temple University College of Liberal Arts M.A. in Sociology/M.A. in Urban Bioethics with the Temple University College of Liberal Arts Ph.D. in Sociology/M.A. in Urban Bioethics with the Temple University College of Liberal Arts Job Prospects: Students graduating with the M.A. in Urban Bioethics have the practical skills, including qualitative research, writing for diverse audiences, and advocacy, as well as theoretical and methodological training to advance in their existing careers and compete more competitively for residencies, job placements, or other advanced graduate training programs. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: Non-matriculated students with at least a bachelor’s degree may register for courses by contacting MAUB@temple.edu. Credit toward a subsequent degree program at Temple University is limited to 9 credits, unless the student enrolls in the Urban Bioethics graduate certificate program. All 14 credits required to complete the certificate are applicable to the Urban Bioethics M.A. Financing Opportunities: Limited support is available for M.A. students concurrently enrolled in the M.D. program at Temple University. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: March 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: April 1 Late applications may be considered for admission, even as late as up to two weeks prior to the term's start date. Dual-degree applicants should note that application deadlines for companion programs may be earlier than the deadlines for the M.A. in Urban Bioethics. Please visit the companion program's description in the Graduate Bulletin for details. APPLY ONLINE to this graduate program. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 2-3 Students applying to the Urban Bioethics M.A. program must submit 3 letters of reference and original transcripts from all post-high school institutions attended. However, students already matriculated into a graduate program at Temple University who are applying for a dual degree may: upon permission of their recommenders and their home school, use their home school letters of recommendation for the Urban Bioethics M.A. application; and ask the Urban Bioethics program administrators to request a transcript from the home school. From Whom: Letters of recommendation should be obtained from college/university faculty members familiar with your academic performance and/or from professional supervisors familiar with your professional experience, accomplishments, and potential for success in a graduate program. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: While a baccalaureate degree is required for admission to the M.A. program, the major studied for the undergraduate degree is not specified. Statement of Goals: Two to three double-spaced pages should address how you see the M.A. in Urban Bioethics as integral to your current educational goals and current/future career development. Standardized Test Scores: GRE: Optional for applicants graduating from traditional undergraduate programs. Applicants for the dual degree and those already holding an advanced degree are not required to submit GRE scores. Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 79 IELTS Academic: 6.5 PTE Academic: 53 Resume: Current resume or CV required. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required Beyond the Baccalaureate: 32 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses UBTH 5001 Urban Bioethics 1 (Professional Students) 3 UBTH 5002 Urban Bioethics 2 (Professional Students) 3 UBTH 5022 Community Engagement I (Professional Students) 2 UBTH 5023 Community Engagement II (Professional Students) 2 UBTH 5031 The Values, Ethics, & Economics of Health Care Delivery in Urban Communities (Professional Students) 2 UBTH 5041 Critical Social Science and Urban Bioethics (Professional Students) 2 Electives 15 Research Course UBTH 9996 MA in Urban Bioethics Thesis (Graduate Students) 3 Total Credit Hours 32 Culminating Events: Thesis: The thesis should make a novel contribution to the field. Toward this end, the student conducts an original research project, empirical or non-empirical, and produces a publishable paper. The research is undertaken with guidance from an approved thesis advisor from the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, the Center for Urban Bioethics, or a dual-degree student’s home department. Contacts Program Web Address: https://medicine.temple.edu/departments-centers/research-centers/center-bioethics-urban-health-and-policy/educational-programs Department Information: Center for Urban Bioethics Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University 3500 N. Broad Street, MERB Suite 324 Philadelphia, PA 19140 MAUB@temple.edu 215-707-3664 Submission Address for Application Materials: https://apply.temple.edu/MED_GRAD/ Mailing Address for Transcripts/Application Materials: LKSOM Center for Urban Bioethics ATTN: Catherine Averill 3500 N. Broad Street, MERB Suite 324F Philadelphia, PA 19140 MAUB@temple.edu Department Contacts: Director of Education: Nora Jones, Ph.D. nora.jones@temple.edu 215-707-7178 Assistant Director: Providenza Loera Rocco, J.D., M.S.W., M.B.E. providenza.rocco@temple.edu 215-707-9963 Senior Advisor: Catherine Averill, M.A., M.F.A., P.S.M. catherine.averill@temple.edu Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel