Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Graduate and Professional / Schools and Colleges / School of Pharmacy / Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, M.S. Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Graduate Student Services Schools and Colleges Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business and Management Kornberg School of Dentistry College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Beasley School of Law College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Lewis Katz School of Medicine Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / Boyer College of Music and Dance Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts / School of Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Pharmacy Global Clinical and Pharmacovigilance Regulations, M.S. Pharmaceutical Regulatory Sciences, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, M.S. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Medicinal Chemistry, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmaceutics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacodynamics, Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences/Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, Ph.D. Pharmacy, Pharm.D. Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, M.S. Graduate Certificate: Advanced Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing and Regulatory Affairs Graduate Certificate: Food Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Labeling, Advertising and Promotions Graduate Certificate: Pharmaceutical Manufacturing: Process Development and Analysis Graduate Certificate: Sterile Process Manufacturing Graduate Certificate: Validation Sciences School of Podiatric Medicine College of Public Health College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Course Descriptions Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, M.S. About Admission Program Requirements Contacts SCHOOL OF PHARMACY About the Program Since its establishment in 1968, Temple's Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance program has played a significant role in training pharmaceutical company personnel in regulations and quality principles and practices. Its courses meet the career requirements of professionals in the pharmaceutical and related industries. The program provides students with a broad knowledge of the industry, fostering their professional development and preparing them for supervisory and managerial positions. Time Limit for Degree Completion: 5 years Campus Location: Fort Washington The M.S. is offered in its entirety on evenings and weekends at Fort Washington. Full-Time/Part-Time Status: Students complete the degree program through classes offered after 4:30 p.m. The degree program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis. Interdisciplinary Study: The program fosters interdisciplinary study between the pharmaceutical sciences and technology. Affiliation(s): Each year the program sponsors a major conference with the pharmaceutical industry and the U.S. FDA, focusing on current regulatory and quality issues. Ranking: Temple's master's degree in Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance is widely recognized as the oldest, most comprehensive, and most respected academic program of its type in the world. Areas of Specialization: This is a non-thesis M.S. program. Faculty members are specialists in many areas, such as auditing; clinical trial management and operations; global regulation; IND/NDA submissions; manufacturing; pharmaceutical, food, and device law; pharmaceutical labeling and advertising; quality assurance; regulatory affairs; and validation. Job Prospects: Students find positions in all areas of the pharmaceutical industry, including big Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) and generic companies, biotechnology, clinical research organizations, and medical devices and packaging. Employment is also found with government agencies, including the FDA, and healthcare providers. Non-Matriculated Student Policy: Students may complete a maximum of 9 credits before they must formally apply for admission. Before taking any electives, new students are strongly encouraged to take QARA 5459 Drug Development and QARA 5592 Food and Drug Law. Financing Opportunities: Students in the Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance program are generally working professionals. Therefore, funding for assistantships and academic internships is limited. Admission Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall: March 1; December 15 international Spring: November 1; September 1 international Summer I: March 1; January 15 international Applications are processed throughout the year. Late applications may be considered for admission. However, the entire application packet must be received by the Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Studies Office before it is reviewed by the Admissions Committee. Applicants are responsible for making sure that all materials have been received. APPLY to this graduate program, submitting the application to QARA2@temple.edu. For more information, visit https://www.temple.edu/pharmacy_qara/applyingtoMS.html. Letters of Reference: Number Required: 2 From Whom: One letter should be obtained from the candidate's direct supervisor, indicating that the supervisor is aware of and supports the candidate's involvement in Temple's Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance graduate program. Bachelor's Degree in Discipline/Related Discipline: A B.S. degree in Biochemistry, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, or a health-related discipline is required. Applicants who earned a degree at a non-U.S. institution must submit an equivalency evaluation of their transcript(s) through a third-party provider, either World Education Services (WES) or Educational Credential Evaluators (ECE). Statement of Goals: Describe your experience in the pharmaceutical or related industries, indicating how the Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance M.S. program will help you achieve your career objectives. Standardized Test Scores: Applicants who earned their baccalaureate degree from an institution where the language of instruction was other than English, with the exception of those who subsequently earned a master’s degree at a U.S. institution, must report scores for a standardized test of English that meet these minimums: TOEFL iBT: 85 IELTS Academic: 6.5 PTE Academic: 58 Resume: Current resume or CV required. Transfer Credit: Students may transfer a maximum of 6 credits into the M.S. program. These credits must be similar or identical to courses offered in Temple's Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance program. In addition, the student must request the transfer credits at the time of application to the M.S. program, providing copies of course syllabi. The maximum number of credits a student may transfer is 6. Program Requirements General Program Requirements: Number of Credits Required Beyond the Baccalaureate: 36 Required Courses: Course List Code Title Credit Hours Core Courses QARA 5459 Drug Development 3 QARA 5494 Quality Audit 3 or QARA 5495 Investigational New Drug/New Drug Application Submissions QARA 5592 Food and Drug Law 3 Good Practices Course 3 Select one of the following: QARA 5476 Good Laboratory Practices QARA 5477 Good Manufacturing Practices QARA 5479 Advanced Good Manufacturing Practices - Defining "c" QARA 5536 Good Clinical Practices Electives 1 24 Total Credit Hours 36 1 Upon completion of the four required courses, students may concentrate their electives in either Regulatory Affairs or in Quality Assurance. Alternately, students may select courses from both disciplines to broaden their portfolio. Culminating Events: This program has no culminating events beyond completion of coursework. Contacts Program Web Address: https://www.temple.edu/pharmacy_qara/ Department Information: Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Program 425 Commerce Drive, Suite 175 Fort Washington, PA 19034-2728 qara@temple.edu 267-468-8560 Submission Address for Application: QARA2@temple.edu Mailing Address for Application Materials: Temple University Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Graduate Program 425 Commerce Drive, Suite 175 Fort Washington, PA 19034-2728 Department Contacts: Admissions: Wendy Lebing, MALD, M.S. Program Coordinator qara@temple.edu 267-468-8560 Graduate Chairperson: Swati Nagar, Ph.D. phscgrad@temple.edu Chairperson: Wendy Lebing, MALD, M.S. wlebing@temple.edu 267-468-8560 Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel