Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home A-Z Index Site Map Print Bulletin Search Temple University Bulletin 2021-2022 Menu Menu Undergraduate About this Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Information General Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Graduate & Professional Graduate School About This Bulletin Academic Calendar Graduate School Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Information Schools, Colleges and Divisions Course Descriptions Courses Course Descriptions Course Numbering Rules Policies Graduate School Policies Undergraduate Policies About Temple Academic Calendar Academic Programs Admissions Course Catalog Class Schedule Schools and Colleges Faculty Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Maps and Campuses Archives Home / Undergraduate / Schools, Colleges, and Divisions / Fox School of Business and Management / All Business Minors & Certificates / Management Consulting Minor Search Bulletin Toggle Bulletin Navigation Toggle Bulletin Navigation Undergraduate About This Bulletin Academic Calendar About Temple University Academic Policies Campuses Tuition and Fees Student Financial Aid Academic Programs General Education Intercollegial Programs Temple University, Japan Campus Schools, Colleges, and Divisions Tyler School of Art & Architecture Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts Boyer College of Music & Dance School of Theater, Film and Media Arts College of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Fox School of Business and Management All Business Minors & Certificates Management Consulting Minor Accounting Actuarial Science Business Management Economics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Management Finance Financial Planning Human Resource Management International Business Legal Studies Management Information Systems Marketing Real Estate Risk Management & Insurance Statistical Science and Data Analytics Supply Chain Management College of Liberal Arts Lew Klein College of Media and Communication College of Public Health School of Social Work College of Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management University College Division of University Studies Course Descriptions Graduate and Professional Academic Programs Course Descriptions Faculty Management Consulting Minor About Requirements Do you like solving tough organizational challenges and helping firms create maximum value for their customers and stakeholders? Does the thought of working with really smart, passionate people on an ever-changing set of business challenges excite you? If so, the Management Consulting Minor may be the perfect complement to your major. This unique minor is designed to complement any Temple major, opening up a variety of new career opportunities, beyond those you might traditionally explore in your field. All Management Consulting courses and the minor are designed to equip you with the hard and soft skills required of successful consultants, whether working for a big named firm like Grant Thornton, Deloitte, or PwC, a regional firm, a boutique firm, or as an internal consultant for a traditional company. The skills you will develop are also transferable to general management, entrepreneurial endeavors, non-profit organizations and public agencies. Courses are taught by practicing consultants, ensuring the skill sets you develop are current and relevant. To ensure the program is practical, courses are built on an experiential foundation, including live consulting projects, mentored classroom exercises, site visits, and live interaction with clients and their consultants. Each course includes opportunities to network with and learn from senior practitioners who come into the class as guest speakers, coaches, judges and lecturers. The program also includes many co-curricular opportunities, including case competitions, challenges, skills workshops, panel discussions, and community service-focused consulting activities. Working together, the courses, extracurricular activities like the Temple Consulting Club (TCC), and partnerships with dozens of firms have been designed to equip you for success in the industry. If you are thinking about declaring the Management Consulting minor, consider enrolling in SGM 2525 Management Consulting: Principles and Practices. By the end of the course you will know whether or not consulting is the right career path for you. If it is, the minor awaits you. If not, you will have picked up a set of skills that you can use for the rest of your career. Open to business and non-business students. Designed to benefit students by giving them an option to study how they might apply the functional discipline of their respective major to the field of consulting, thereby expanding their employability beyond a single industry or function. All students in the Fox School of Business and Management are required to take the prerequisite courses as part of their lower division Fox School foundation. Four prerequisite courses are required for this minor:1 Course List Code Title Credit Hours MIS 2101 Digital Systems 3 or MIS 2901 Honors Digital Systems ECON 1101 Macroeconomic Principles 3 or ECON 1901 Honors Macroeconomic Principles or ECON 1102 Microeconomic Principles or ECON 1902 Honors Microeconomic Principles HRM 1101 Leadership and Organizational Management 3 or HRM 1901 Honors Leadership and Organizational Management LGLS 1101 Legal Environment of Business 3 or LGLS 1901 Honors Legal Environment of Business Four courses are required for this minor: Course List Code Title Credit Hours SGM 2525 Management Consulting: Principles and Practices 3 SGM 3525 The Consulting Engagement: Managing Projects and Change 3 Select one of the following Management Consulting electives: 3 SGM 3503 Lean Startup: Fast and Inexpensive Ways to Test and Launch Your Ideas SGM 3580 Special Topics - Strategic Management Select one of the following Experiential electives: 3 SGM 3685 New Venture Internship: Learning to be a High-Value Employee, Manager, or Founder HRM 3531 HR on the Ground 2 Total Credit Hours 12 1 Minimum grades of C are required in all prerequisite courses. 2 This is the first of a group of courses to focus on functional disciplines within consulting (e.g., HR consulting, IT consulting, etc.). All courses required for the minor must be taken at Temple University. Residency excludes the prerequisite courses. A grade point average of 2.0 in the minor is required as well as a minimum grade of C- in each course, unless otherwise specified. Courses cannot be used to meet minor requirements if already used to meet the requirements for a major or a different minor or certificate. Courses for the minor must be completed prior to graduation; if completed, the minor will be recorded on the final transcript upon graduation. To declare or rescind this minor, visit the Fox School of Business and Management. Interested students should discuss with their home college advisors how the courses in the minor will fit into their overall degree plan and are strongly encouraged to declare the minor early in their academic career. Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2012-2021, Temple University. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of entire Undergraduate Bulletin All pages in Undergraduate Bulletin Download PDF of entire Graduate and Professional Bulletin All pages in Graduate and Professional Bulletin Cancel