Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the bursar Main Menu In this section About the Bursar About UsContact Information Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Fees Billing & Payment Credits & Refunds Tax Info Resources & Forms Home Frequently Asked Questions Home Credits & Refunds Frequently Asked Questions Where can I view my OSU Bursar bill online? Your Bursar bill can be accessed via myOKSTATE. How do I view my Bursar bill online? Once logged into myOKSTATE, under Quick Links click on "OSU Stillwater/Tulsa Bursar Account." If you have never been a student at OSU, contact the Bursar Office via email at bursar@okstate.edu to request access to your bursar account. Please include your full name, Banner ID, and a contact phone number at which you may be reached. You will receive a response from our office with instructions on how to log in to your bursar account portal. How do I authorize others (parents) to view my Bursar Bill online? Once logged into myOKSTATE, under Quick Links click on "OSU Stillwater/Tulsa Bursar Account." Click on Authorized User tab at the top of the page. Enter authorized user email address and click yes to what you want them to access. The authorized user will receive two emails; the first will be an email acknowledging they are an authorized user; the second email will be their temporary password. Once they have received both emails, the authorized user needs to go online to the Bursar website and click on the Authorized User Login. What if I forgot my PIN needed for Alternate login? If you have forgotten your PIN issued by the Office of the Registrar that is needed for Alternate login, please contact registrar@okstate.edu to request a new PIN. If you have never been a student at OSU, you may contact the Bursar Office at bursar@okstate.edu to request access to your bursar account. Please include your full name, Banner ID, and a contact phone number at which you may be reached. You will receive a response from our office with instructions on how to log in to your bursar account portal. If you have been a student and do not know your PIN: Current and former students with an Active O-Key Account can log into myOKSTATE and select "OSU Stillwater/Tulsa Bursar Account" under the Quick Links section. Former Students without an Active O-Key Account: Former students who have attended OSU since Fall 1999 can access their bursar account information by logging into Self Service via the Alternate Login option using their Banner ID number and Banner PIN. If you don’t know your Banner ID or PIN, you can submit a Banner PIN Request and receive them via email. Complete the Office of the Registrar Banner Pin Request form. If you have an active O-Key and are experiencing access issues, please contact the OSU Help Desk at 405-744-4357 or email helpdesk@okstate.edu. Why am I getting an email telling me my bill is online now? Emails are automatically sent monthly informing students when their billing statement is available to view online. These emails are sent to the University email and to authorized user email addresses. Payment plan participants are sent installment payment due notifications in separate emails and the billing statement email is to inform you of the total monthly billing statement amount for informational purposes. How do I get my refund/stipend? There are two methods for receiving a refund: Direct Deposit Refund check by mail to local address Direct Deposit Signing up for direct deposit is quick and easy. To add/manage banking information and receive deposits electronically, do the following: Log into myOKSTATE Under Quick Links, click on "OSU Stillwater/Tulsa Bursar Account" Click on “Refunds” on the top menu bar Under “Current Refund Method”, Click on “Set Up Account” A dialogue box will appear: Click on an “Existing Account” or “Set up a New Account” and the “Continue” button If you clicked on an “Existing Account”, your refund account will be assigned to the existing account If you clicked on “Set Up Account”, enter the required information and press “Continue” Agree to the terms and press “Continue” The Direct Deposit Program provides quicker delivery of your refund when your bursar account has been overpaid. If you participate in direct deposit, your refunds will transfer to your checking account within 48 hours after the credit becomes effective on your bursar account. The Direct Deposit Program is a service that is totally electronic, eliminating all manual processing steps. To sign up, click Bursar Login located on the left hand side of the bursar website and use your O-Key login to complete the Direct Deposit Sign-Up information. If you do not choose to participate in the Direct Deposit Program, your refund will be issued by check. Refund checks are mailed on a bi-weekly schedule to students’ local addresses. The Bursar Office cannot cash these University-generated refund checks nor can they cash personal checks. When is my bursar bill due? The Bursar Office provides a monthly billing statement on the last business day of every month detailing charges and payments that occurred during that month. Statement notifications are emailed monthly to the students okstate email address as well as to authorized users and payments are due upon receipt. Payment plan participants are sent installment payment due notifications in separate emails and the statement email is to inform you of the total monthly billing statement amount for informational purposes. Charges that appear on your billing statement that are still unpaid after the 15th of the month are subject to a 1.5% monthly penalty if you are not enrolled in the payment plan. Who is responsible for paying my bursar bill; me or my parents? The student is responsible for paying and making sure the account is kept current. Delinquent account information is disclosed to credit reporting agencies, which could endanger the student's credit rating on a local or national level. More information about Financial Responsibility. Do I have to go to the Bursar Office to pay my bill? Put https://bursar.okstate.edu/payment-methods information here? How do I pay online with a web check? The Bursar Office has a “Make a Payment” on the Bursar website for a guest payment or you may go directly into myOKSTATE and click on OSU Stillwater/Tulsa Bursar Account under Quick Links. To pay with a web check as a guest, you need the Banner ID, birthdate, and amount to pay. There is a ten business day delay to clear a transcript financial hold using this method of payment. Once a returned check is received, the web check payment method is no longer available to pay your account. Example of the bank account information needed: Why am I charged fees in addition to tuition? View more information about tuition and fees. Is there a tuition and fees detailed amount list? Yes. You may view a detailed list of tuition and fees here. How can I estimate how much I will owe? Link to Tuition Estimator here. How do I get my financial aid refund? View more information about refunds. How do I sign up for direct deposit for my refunds? View more information about refunds. Is there an alternative to paying for the entire semester at once? View more information about our Payment Option Plan. What do I need to know for my taxes? View 1098-T information. How do I contact the Bursar office if my question is not answered here? Send an email to bursar@okstate.edu with your question. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Bursar Part of theDivision of Administration & Finance Office of the Bursar 113 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) 405-744-5993 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEventsNewsletter Signup Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©