Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the bursar Main Menu In this section About the Bursar About UsContact Information Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Fees Billing & Payment Credits & Refunds Tax Info Resources & Forms Home Billing & Payment Make a Payment Billing & Payment Make a Payment Billing & Due Dates Payment Option Plan International Payments FAQ Tuition Insurance Credit Card Payment FAQ Make a Payment The Office of the Bursar accepts cash, checks, and online credit card payments. Payments are due prior to the 15th of each month. If the 15th falls on a weekend, the due date is extended to the next business day without penalty. All past due accounts accrue a penalty at the rate of 1.5% monthly (19.56 APY). Web Check for Guests Credit Card* for Guests Other Payments To ensure enrollment and academic hold release, pay the entire past due account balance in cash, certified funds or credit card online. If payment is by personal paper check or online web check, the account holder may be required to wait until the payment has cleared the bank (up to 2 weeks) to enroll or obtain a transcript or a diploma. A paper check as payment authorizes Oklahoma State University to clear that check electronically. Bank accounts may be debited the same day payment is received. Electronically cleared transactions appear on bank statements even though paper checks are not presented to the financial institution. Any resubmission due to insufficient funds may also occur electronically. All transactions are secure and payment by check constitutes acceptance of these terms. Returned items are assessed a $30 fee and the account holder is responsible for all dishonored payments which have been processed on their account, including the credit card convenience fee. If a payment is returned to the University by the bank and the payment was made to get enrolled, the Bursar may cancel enrollment and referral to student conduct is a possibility. Students must meet all financial responsibilities due to the University. Financial irresponsibility may subject the student to additional fees, suspension of check writing/online payment privileges, denial or cancellation of registration, withholding of grades and transcripts and possible adjudication under the Code of Student Conduct. The writing of checks, both paper and electronic, on accounts with insufficient funds, as well as the issuance of stop pays or fraudulent credit card chargebacks is considered a lack of financial responsibility. Personal checks are not accepted to pay a returned check. Payment must be in cash, certified funds, or credit card online. * A 2.85% or $3.00 minimum convenience fee will be added to all credit/debit card Bursar account payments. The convenience fee is nonrefundable, even if the payment to which it relates is cancelled, refunded, credited, or charged back. Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, Diners Card International, JCB, Union Pay, BC Card and Dina Card are accepted. Cash Payments Cash payments can be made in person at our office at: 113 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Check Payments Make checks payable to "OSU Bursar Office" and mail to: OSU Office of the Bursar PO Box 269038 Oklahoma City, OK 73126-9038 When you send us a check as payment, you authorize Oklahoma State University to clear your check electronically. This electronic transaction will appear on your bank statement although your check will not be presented to your financial institution or returned to you. Any resubmission due to insufficient funds may also occur electronically. Please be aware that all checking transactions will remain secure and payment by check constitutes acceptance of these terms. International Payments Oklahoma State University partners with Western Union Business Solutions to provide international students and their families a fast, easy, and affordable way to pay education costs online and in their own currency. This service allows you to pay locally from your home bank, saving you money on exchange rates and bank fees. Funds are credited directly to your bursar account in dollars in as few as two (2) business days. Oklahoma State University does not accept overpayments on student accounts. Please transfer only the amount due on your student account to avoid payment delays. Frequently Asked Questions Helpful Links Western Union / International Wire Payments OSU Student International Payment Information Bank Wires - International Payments Instructions Currency Option List China Payment Options - English China Payment Options - Chinese Korea Payment Options Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Bursar Part of theDivision of Administration & Finance Office of the Bursar 113 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) 405-744-5993 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEventsNewsletter Signup Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©