Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the bursar Main Menu In this section About the Bursar About UsContact Information Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Fees Billing & Payment Credits & Refunds Tax Info Resources & Forms Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Lock Program Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Details Tuition & Fees Estimator Description of Tuition & Fees Tuition Lock Program Dropping / Adding Cost Information Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Lock (Oklahoma Residents Only) Each fall, new students are eligible to choose their tuition preference. The opportunity to request lock tuition remains open the first week of Fall. Every new first-time full-time freshman has the option to choose the tuition guaranteed lock rate by submitting the form. 2020-2021 Academic Year Information The following graphic displays 2018 - 2021 comparisons of the standard (nonguaranteed) tuition increase versus the actual guaranteed lock tuition rate offered to eligible academic year 2017 - 2018 students. Annual Cost of Tuition 2017 - 2018 2018 - 2019 2019-2020 2020 - 2021 Nonguaranteed Rate $5,190 $5,357 $5,357 $5,357 Guaranteed Rate $5,968 $5,968 $5,968 $5,968 OSU Tuition Increases for Resident Undergraduates Year Tuition Increase 2018 - 2019 3.2% 2017 - 2018 5.0% 2016 - 2017 7.0% 2015 - 2016 4.4% 2014 - 2015 0.0% 2013 - 2014 0.0% 2012 - 2013 2.8% 2011 - 2012 4.9% 2010 - 2011 4.1% 2009 - 2010 0.0% The non-guaranteed tuition rate would have to increase by 9.4% annually in order for the guaranteed rate to be the most cost efficient option. Over the past 12 years, the average annual increase for OSU has been 2.6%. The guaranteed lock tuition rate for first-time, full-time, in-state freshman for the 2020 - 2021 academic year is a $205.30 per credit hour ($6,159 annually for 30 credit hours – eligible up to 4 consecutive years). The standard (non-guaranteed) tuition rate for students in 2020-2021 is $178.55 per credit hour ($5,356.50 for 30 credit hours – adjusted each year); The average annual tuition increase for resident undergraduate students over the most current four years has been 2.1%. For the guaranteed tuition program to be the most cost beneficial choice, the non-guaranteed rates would have to increase by an average of 9.4% each year for the next four years. **Please note the costs reflect tuition only (the only portion of costs included in the tuition lock program) and assumes 30 credit hours per academic year. Fees are not included in the lock tuition legislation How do I choose? New first-time, full-time freshman beginning in the Fall (after the tuition and fees are officially set for the school year), have the option to choose the tuition lock rate based on the average of the projected tuition for the next four years. Complete the form located in the Student Forms section prior to the second week of class to select the guaranteed locked tuition rate. For those unsure how to decide, it may help to consider the lock tuition rate as you would a fixed rate mortgage (tuition lock) versus a variable rate mortgage (standard tuition rate). The fixed rate is more expensive at the beginning and can remain that way, while the variable rate may increase over the course of multiple years but cannot easily be predicted. Guidelines A first-time, full-time, in state resident student is eligible for the tuition lock program as long as he/she remains continuously enrolled as a full-time student. Details to note: The tuition lock is guaranteed for a maximum of four (4) years, with exceptions for degree programs officially recognized by the university as 5-year programs. These are: Architectural Engineering, Architecture, and Landscape Architecture. The tuition lock program is active for 4 years of undergraduate study for most degree programs. At the expiration point of the tuition lock, the student is required to pay the nonguaranteed standard rate of tuition for the remaining semesters of attendance. If, for any reason, a student does not maintain consecutive full time enrollment (withdraws or drops out of the institution), he/she is ineligible to return at the locked rate, and will be charged the standard rate of tuition for the remaining semesters of attendance. If a student drops below full-time status in any given semester (excluding summer), he/she will automatically revert back to the standard rate for subsequent semesters. If a student transfers to another state institution, he/she will be charged the amount of resident tuition charged to other first time students enrolling on the new campus. If the student withdraws for military or national defense emergencies, he/she can re-enter and return to the original guaranteed tuition rate if the tuition lock was chosen as a first-time student. The guaranteed rate includes tuition only. Additional university fees charged and costs incurred by students are not included in the tuition lock option. Visit the tuition and fee estimator to calculate an estimate. Enrollment in courses that do not use the standard undergraduate tuition rate, such as graduate level courses and outreach courses (some Web based courses students may choose through the regular campus enrollment system are actually offered via Outreach), are not included in the guaranteed tuition program. Frequently Asked Questions What if a participating student has to withdraw from classes in a given semester? If the student withdraws for military or national defense emergencies, he/she can re-enter and pay the original guaranteed tuition rate. What if the student takes longer than four years to graduate? The tuition lock program expires after four years unless the student is enrolled in a degree program officially requiring more than four years to completion. At the expiration point of the tuition lock, the student would be required to pay the standard rate of tuition for the remaining semesters. What if the student transfers to another state institution? If a student transfers to another state institution, he/she will be charged the amount of resident tuition charged to other first time students enrolling on the new campus. What if the student has a tuition waiver? Students who have been granted tuition waivers are NOT eligible for the tuition lock program. When do I need to decide? First time, full time, in-state students choosing the tuition lock program are required to select by the second week of Fall classes. I don't want to lock tuition. How do I make my choice official? Students who wish to remain with the standard tuition rates are not required to do anything. Your choice is automatic. May I cancel the tuition lock if I later decide I’d like the standard tuition rate? Students who have selected the lock tuition program may opt out of the guaranteed tuition program in a subsequent semester, but once they opt out they may not opt back in. Students can opt out of the lock tuition program by submitting a completed Lock Tuition Revocation Form (under Student Forms on the bursar website) prior to the first day of classes of the applicable semester. If the form is not received by the Bursar Office prior to the beginning of the semester, the student’s lock tuition rate will remain in effect for that term, and it will not be revoked until the subsequent semester. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Bursar Part of theDivision of Administration & Finance Office of the Bursar 113 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) 405-744-5993 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEventsNewsletter Signup Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©