Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the bursar Main Menu In this section About the Bursar About UsContact Information Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Fees Billing & Payment Credits & Refunds Tax Info Resources & Forms Home Financial Responsibility Home Credits & Refunds Financial Responsibility Oklahoma State University corresponds electronically with account holders using your University email address. I understand I am responsible for regularly reading important information sent to my University email account and for taking action on any important correspondence sent to this address and maintaining adequate email space to ensure correspondence is received. Enrollment at the Oklahoma State University is predicated on the student’s compliance with the University’s rules and regulations as well as successful fulfillment of financial obligations during the semesters. As such, enrollment is not an entitlement but is a privilege granted once student obligations have been fulfilled. Oklahoma State University corresponds electronically with account holders using your University email address. I understand I am responsible for regularly reading important information sent to my University email account and for acting on any important correspondence sent to this address and maintaining adequate email space to ensure correspondence is received. I understand when I register for any class at Oklahoma State University or receive any service from Oklahoma State University, I accept full responsibility to pay all tuition, fees and other associated costs assessed as a result of my registration and/or receipt of services. I further understand and agree that my registration and acceptance of these terms constitutes a contractual (promissory note) agreement to pay my financial obligation (i.e., a financial obligation in the form of an educational loan as defined by the U.S. Bankruptcy Code at 11 U.S.C. 523(a)(8)) in which Oklahoma State University is providing me educational services, deferring some or all on my payment obligation for those services, and I promise to pay all assessed tuition, fees and other associated costs by the published due date.) I understand and agree if I drop or withdraw from some or all of the classes for which I register, I will be responsible for paying all or a portion of tuition and fees in accordance with the published tuition refund schedule at Oklahoma State University, available at http://registrar.okstate.edu/University-Catalog-Registrar#adding. I have read the terms and conditions of the published tuition refund schedule and understand those terms are incorporated herein by reference. I further understand my failure to attend class or receive a bill does not absolve me of my financial responsibility as described above. If I decide to completely withdraw from OSU, I will follow the instructions at https://registrar.okstate.edu/Registration-and-Enrollment#withdrawing, which I understand and agree are incorporated herein by reference. I also understand if I enroll in classes or my advisor enrolls me in classes at Oklahoma State University and I do not attend these classes, I am still held responsible to pay the required tuition and fees if I fail to withdraw by the published dates. I understand and accept I am responsible for all charges on my account, including parking permits, parking fines, athletic tickets, health service charges, student store charges, etc. as well as educational expenses. I understand OSU uses electronic billing (e-bill) email notification as its official billing method when my billing statement is available to view online, and I am responsible for viewing and paying my bursar account by the scheduled due date. I further understand failure to review my billing statement does not constitute a valid reason for not paying my bill on time. Statements are located online through Banner Self-Service at http://my.okstate.edu. I understand that administrative, clerical, or technical billing errors do not absolve me of my financial responsibility to pay the correct amount of tuition, fees and other associated financial obligations assessed as a result of my registration at OSU. I understand and agree it is my responsibility to notify my parents/legal guardian of my account balance or set up my parents/legal guardian as an authorized user to access my statement through the authorized user link located on the bursar website. I understand if I have a past due balance, I will lose my charging privilege on campus. This does not affect a meal plan unless the contracted amount is used. I understand and agree if I fail to pay my bursar account balance or any monies due and owed to Oklahoma State University by the scheduled due date, OSU will place a financial hold on my bursar account, preventing me from registering for future classes, requesting, and obtaining transcripts, or receiving my diploma. I understand and agree if I enroll prior to the financial hold being placed on my account, my enrollment is subject to cancellation if my balance is not paid to current. I also understand if I am participating in the Payment Plan and my payments are not current, my enrollment is also subject to cancellation. I understand and agree failure to pay my bursar account balance or any monies due and owed to Oklahoma State University prior to the 15th of the month will result in my account being assessed a 1.5% monthly (19.56 APY) finance charge on any past due balance until my account is paid in full. I understand and accept if I fail to pay my bursar account or any monies due or owing Oklahoma State University by the 15th of the month and fail to make acceptable payment arrangements to bring my account current, OSU will refer my delinquent account to an external collection agency. I further understand if OSU refers my bursar account balance to a third party for collections, whether an attorney or collection agency, I will be responsible for any costs (including but not limited to collection fees) associated with attempting to collect the monies due and owing. I understand a collection fee will be assessed and will be due and owing in full at the time of the referral to the third party. The collection fee will be calculated at a maximum amount permitted by applicable law but not to exceed 33.3% of the amount outstanding. This will be assessed to my bursar account and included in the balance due. For purposes of this provision, the third party may be a debt collection agency or an attorney. If a lawsuit is filed to recover an outstanding balance, I shall be responsible for any costs associated with the lawsuit such as court costs and applicable costs. Finally, I understand my delinquent account will result in endangering my credit rating on a local and/or national level by being reported to all three-credit bureau’s (Equifax, TransUnion, Experian). The University will also exercise the right to request an Oklahoma State Tax refund hold to offset the outstanding debt. I understand and agree Oklahoma State University uses email as an official method of communication with me and that, therefore, I am responsible for reading the emails I receive from OSU on a timely basis. I authorize Oklahoma State University and its agents/contractors to contact me via current and any future cellular phone number(s), including text message, email address(es), or wireless device(s) regarding my delinquent bursar account/loan(s), and other debt I owe to Oklahoma State University or to receive general information from OSU. I authorize OSU and its agents, representatives, and attorneys (including collection agencies) to use automated telephone dialing equipment, artificial or pre-recorded voice or text messages, and personal calls and emails, in their effort to contact me for purposes of collecting any portion of my account balance/financial obligation which is past due. Furthermore, I understand I may withdraw my consent to call or text my cellphone using automated telephone dialing equipment by submitting a clear revocation request in writing to Oklahoma State University or to its applicable contractor/agents on behalf of OSU. I understand and agree I am responsible for keeping OSU records updated with my current mailing address, email address(es), and phone numbers by logging into Student Self-Service at http://my.okstate.edu or contacting the University. Upon leaving Oklahoma State University for any reason, it is my responsibility to provide OSU with updated contact information for purposes of continued communication regarding any amounts due and owed to OSU. I understand my Financial Aid Award is contingent upon my continued enrollment and attendance in each class upon which my financial aid eligibility was calculated. If I drop any class before completion, I understand my financial aid eligibility may decrease and some or all of the financial aid maybe retracted. I further understand if some or all on my financial aid is retracted because I dropped or failed to attend class, I agree to pay all charges the retracted aid previously paid as well as retracted aid for which I was previously eligible that disbursed to my account which resulted in a credit balance and was refunded to me. I agree to allow financial aid I receive to pay any and all charges assessed to my account at OSU such as tuition, fees, campus housing, meal plans, student health insurance parking permits, fines, bookstore charges, or any other amount in accordance with the terms of the aid. I understand any federal Title IV financial aid received, except for Federal Work-Study (FWS) wages, will apply to only educational expenses on my account for tuition/fees, housing/meals and books. Title IV financial aid includes aid from Pell Grant, Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG), Direct Loan, PLUS Loan, Perkins Loan, and TEACH Grant programs. I authorize OSU to apply my Title IV financial aid to pay all other charges assessed to my account such as student store charges, student insurance, parking permits/fines, athletic tickets or any other education-related charges. I further understand this authorization will remain in effect until I rescind it and I may withdraw it at any time by completing the Title IV Authorization form on the bursar website. I understand once all my financial aid is applied to my bursar account, I am responsible to pay any charges still outstanding and new charges by the due date. I understand and agree if my account balance is less than $200, I must authorize OSU to use any future Title IV aid to be applied to my account to cover prior year charges. I further understand this authorization will remain in effect until I rescind it and I may withdraw it at any time by completing the Title IV Authorization form on the bursar website. I understand that all prize, awards, scholarships, and grants awarded to me by OSU will be credited to my bursar account and applied toward any outstanding balance. I further understand that my receipt of a prize, award, scholarship or grant is considered a financial resource according to federal Title IV financial aid regulations, and may therefore, reduce my eligibility for other federal and/or state financial aid (i.e., loans, grants, Federal Work Study) which, if already disbursed to my account, must be reversed and returned to the aid source. If my federal or institutional financial aid or third-party sponsor payment is either not received by Oklahoma State University or I lose my financial aid or sponsorship eligibility for the semester, I assume responsibility for paying all financial obligations. I understand if I have a student Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loan, Perkins Loans, Health Professions Student Loan, and/or Murray Case Sells Loan, I am responsible for completing the required exit counseling upon leaving the university. I understand and agree if a payment made to the bursar account is returned by the bank for any reason, I agree to repay the original amount of the payment plus a returned payment fee of $30. I understand if a payment is returned to the University by the bank and the payment was made to get enrolled, the Bursar may cancel my enrollment during the drop/add timeframe and may require certified funds for hold clearances. I understand multiple returned payments and/or failure to comply with the terms of any payment plan or agreement signed with OSU may result in cancellation of my classes and/or suspension of my eligibility to register for future classes at OSU. I understand Oklahoma State University is bound by the Family Educational Rights to Privacy Act (FERPA) which prohibits OSU from releasing any information from my education record including bursar account information without my written permission or PROXY. Therefore, I understand if I want OSU to share information from my education record with someone other than myself, I must provide written permission by completing the release form in the Registrar Office or by completing the PROXY tab in the student portal. I agree to comply with Federal law to provide OSU with my Social Security Number (SSN) (or if I am not eligible to obtain an SSN, I will obtain from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) a taxpayer identification number (TIN) to provide) upon request for the University to meet the annual requirement of furnishing a Form 1098-T, Tuition Statement, which reports qualified tuition and related expenses associated with my enrollment. (Non-resident aliens that do not have income that is subject to tax are not required to supply this information.) If I fail to provide my SSN or TIN to Oklahoma State University, I agree to pay any and all IRS fines assessed as a result of my missing SSN/TIN. I consent to receive my annual IRS Form 1098-T, Tuition Statement, electronically from OSU. I understand if I do not consent to receive my Form 1098-T electronically, a paper copy will be provided. I understand I can withdraw this consent or request a paper copy by logging into my.okstate.edu, clicking on OSU Stillwater/Tulsa Bursar account, then clicking on Consents and Agreements. I am aware Oklahoma law governs the terms of this agreement and any disputes arising shall be determined in accordance with the law of this jurisdiction. I understand and agree if I am younger than the applicable age of majority when I execute this agreement, the educational services provided by OSU are a necessity, and I am contractually obligated pursuant to the “doctrine of necessaries.” If any provision, term, or clause of this Agreement is declared illegal, unenforceable, or ineffective in a legal forum with competent jurisdiction to do so, this Agreement shall be deemed severable, and all other provisions, terms, and clauses of the Agreement will remain valid and binding on the Parties. This agreement supersedes all prior understandings, representations, negotiations, and correspondence between the student and Oklahoma State University, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the matters described, and shall not be modified or affected by any course of dealing or course of performance. This agreement may be modified by OSU if the modification is signed by me. Any modification is specifically limited to those policies and/or terms addressed in the modification. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Bursar Part of theDivision of Administration & Finance Office of the Bursar 113 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) 405-744-5993 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEventsNewsletter Signup Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©