Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Homepage Tomorrow's Leaders Are Built Today. At Miami Herbert Business School, we develop principled leaders who transform global business and society. Take your next step to take on the world. Your tomorrow starts here. Programs Undergraduate Four years of learning, benefits for a lifetime. Undergraduate Programs Graduate Choose from among our MBAs, Specialized Masters, or certificates. Graduate Programs Executive Education The latest cutting-edge expertise to level up your company's knowledge and exceed your potential. Company Programs Doctoral Join the next generation of thought leaders within business and economics. Doctoral Programs What We Stand For Leadership. Diversity and Inclusion. Sustainability. Global Focus. Technology. At Miami Herbert, our values shape our innovative educational model. Learn About Our Mission The Miami Difference The city of Miami is the 7th largest metro area in the United States. The city is a bustling hub for multinational trade, commerce, and culture at the crossroads of the Americas. At Miami Herbert Business School, we take full advantage of this thriving ecosystem to provide the best experiential learning opportunities for future business leaders. Choose Topics All Business Technology Global Focus Startup Activities Sustainability Undergraduate Graduate Rankings Diversity AACSB ACCREDITED EQUIS ACCREDITED #1 Undergraduate Business School Miami Herbert ranks #1 in Florida, #30 in the nation, according to Poets and Quants for Undergrads 2022. #13 Nationally Ranked Entrepreneurship Program The Business School represents the only undergraduate entrepreneurship program in Florida ranked top 15 by The Princeton Review, Entrepreneur Magazine. The Economist ranks MBA faculty quality No. 8 worldwide The full-time MBA program at Miami Herbert and its professors ranked among the world's best by The Economist's 2021 Which MBA? Full-time rankings. A finance and tech hub Miami is the epicenter of business innovation. Top MBA Programs According to the Wall Street Journal, 2018 120 Banks There are more than 120 banks or banking divisions in Miami. #1 City for startup activity 2017 Kauffman Index 90 Foreign trade offices and consulates Miami has nearly 90 foreign trade offices and consulates. 1200 Multinationals More than 1,200 multinational corporations have headquarters of Latin American divisions in Miami. #1 Most international city in the U.S. U.S. Census Bureau 86 Countries represented by our student body The city of Miami is a thriving gateway between the United States, Latin America, Europe, and the Caribbean. Arts Scene Miami has a vibrant arts scene, with music, theater, and more than 100 galleries. 2,616 Undergraduate students Fall 2020 950 Graduate students Fall 2020 8 Specialized Programs Outside of the various MBA options, the school offers 8 Specialized Master Degree programs. Most can be completed in under 1 year. 44% Faculty Identify as a Minority #7 In the U.S. for Business Sustainability Corporate Knights Better World MBA Rankings 2020. #1 In Florida Miami Herbert is the first in the state of Florida to achieve LEED Gold Certification for Existing Building Operations &amp; Maintenance (EBOM) as designated by the US Green Building Council (USGBC) for its environmental performance and sustainable operations. #5 In the U.S. for Corporate Social Responsibility And #17 worldwide, according to the Financial Times Global MBA Ranking 2021. Success Stories Our students are passionate, dedicated, creative thinkers who come from diverse backgrounds but share the will to succeed and the desire to transform global business and society. Financial Planning Consultant “At Miami Herbert, I have been able to grow and learn alongside other hardworking professionals from around the world. The network of individuals presented to us goes beyond our program and even the walls of the business school; you really feel a part of the whole University of Miami community.” Krystine Pereda Professional MBA Student Grad Student at Miami Herbert “The top-rated professors, intelligent peers and ability to carve your own path offered by the full-time MBA program, is designed to have graduates ready to enter the career force as vibrant leaders.” Michael Hajjar Full-Time MBA Student Senior at Miami Herbert “The experience outside the formal classroom is as significant as what takes place within the classroom. Students are given the opportunity to learn from exceptional guest speakers who are prominent business and policy leaders. I’ve learned how to deal with adversity, leadership in times of crisis, failure, and resiliency. It has been an invaluable experience.” Margarita Sinko BBA, Finance Grad Student at Miami Herbert “The curriculum offered in the Miami Herbert Business School’s MBA program is unlike any other due to its innovative and rigorous approach, which prepares students to become global leaders in business.” Gaby Lucas Full-Time MBA Student See previous story See next story Learn from the Best Faculty Our outstanding faculty are recognized worldwide for their teaching and cutting-edge research. All Faculty Patricia Abril Department Chair and Professor, Business Law Brian Barrett Department Chair and Associate Professor, Finance Henrik Cronqvist Vice Dean for Lifelong Learning Bank of America Scholar, and Professor, Finance Michael French Department Chair and Professor, Health Management and Policy Miguel Minutti-Meza Department Chair and Associate Professor, Accounting Hari Natarajan Vice Dean for Business Programs Professor, Management Linda L. Neider Department Chair and Professor, Management Robert Plant Department Chair and Associate Professor, Business Technology Manuel Santos Department Chair, James L. Knight Chair, and Professor, Economics Paul Sugrue Department Chair and Professor, Management Science Michael Tsiros Department Chair, Patrick J. Cesarano Faculty Scholar, and Professor, Marketing See previous slide See next slide News School News Miami Herbert establishes Ukrainian Graduate Business Scholarships for people impacted by the war in Ukraine April 22, 2022 School News Undergraduates take top honors at IBESCC April 21, 2022 Entrepreneurship Miami Herbert alumnus invests in sustainable open ocean aquaculture April 18, 2022 Sustainable Business Miami Herbert celebrates its fifth annual Chief Sustainability Officer Summit & Symposium March 28, 2022 All News Start Your Application Today Undergraduate Graduate Visit Us Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback