Business and Financial Services Colorado State University Units Accounts Payable Accounts Receivable Operations Commercial Accounts Student Accounts Sponsor Billing Cashier's Office Campus Services Cost Accounting Controller's Office Financial Reporting & Analysis Financial Systems Services In-House Collections - Special Assets KFS Operations Merchant Services Property Management Student Loans Federal Perkins Loan Health Professions Student Loan (HPSL) Webster-Barnes Loan Tax Services Travel Services Resources Financial Rules & Procedures Financial Statements Forms Guides & Manuals Staff List Accounts Payable Accounts Receivable Operations Banking Services Campus Services Cost Accounting Controller's Office Financial Reporting & Analysis Financial System Services INTO Financial Services KFS Operations Property Management Special Assets Tax Services Travel Services Training Solutions Transfer of Funds Matrix Year End Kuali Information Links Office of Budgets AAR Portal (Banner, Kuali, HR) DOE Cash Mgmt First National Bank/CSU Contract First National Bank/CSU Contract Amendments 3 & 4 First National Bank/CSU Contract Amendment 5 2020/2021 Aid Year Reporting 2019/2020 Aid Year Reporting 2018/2019 Aid Year Reporting Gift Processing Policies & Procedures Outlook Web Access Procurement Services Map Cashier's Office – a Function of Banking Services Location: Howes Street Business Center, 555 S Howes St., 1st Floor Mailing Address: 6015 Campus Delivery, Fort Collins, CO 80523-6015 For Student Account Questions, please call 970-491-6321 Payment Options Colorado State University utilizes an online billing and payment system. Students will receive an email notification at their colostate.edu email address to view their statements online in RAMweb. Students can grant access to parents or trusted individuals to view their student statement online by logging into RAMweb, and selecting Manage Access to My Records (FAMweb). The trusted user will then receive an e-mail from vpsa_famweb@colostate.edu with login details and a verification code. Those individuals will also receive an email notification when a new bill is available, and will be able to view statements and make online payments. Hours: 8:30am to 4:30pm Monday-Friday Phone: 970-491-2767 Fax: 970-491-2452 Contact Us How to Find Us Online A secure online payment kiosk is available in the Howes Street Business Center, Room 110 - Cashier’s Office. Student Login (RAMweb) Trusted Individual Login (FAMweb) Commercial Login Student/commercial accounts and Perkins/Health Professions student loans may be paid online. Our secure online service accepts payments by electronic check, VISA, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, and international payments through Western Union. Please be advised, there will be a Colorado.gov fee from our third party processor for eCheck and credit card transactions. Student Accounts Current and former students can log into RAMweb or RAM Records and follow the Billing and Tax Information link in the main Menu. Select Pay My Bill. Students may grant access to parents and trusted individuals in RAMweb through the Records link in the main Menu. Select Manage Student Record, then FAMweb. Once authorized, non-students can make payments on student accounts. Electronic Check Update Credit Card Payments for Tuition and Commercial Accounts Commercial Accounts To make a payment by electronic check or credit card, please call the Commercial Accounts Receivable Office at (970) 491-2697 to request online payment access. Wire Transfer Payments via wire transfer must include the student/commercial account number in the reference information field of the wire. Please visit RAMweb/FAMweb - Pay My Bill for CSU's wire transfer instructions, or email BFS_Bursar@mail.colostate.edu. (These are not to be used for CSUF, CSURF, INTO, or CSU Global wires or ACH payments). International Payments Colorado State University has a partnership with Western Union to provide international payers the option of paying in their local currency and having it converted to US dollars for payment on their student account. Students may access this option through RAMweb and trusted individuals may access this option online through FAMweb if the student has authorized their email address on RAMweb under Change My Access to My Records (FAMweb). Quotes that are printed and taken to the payer’s local bank for processing are valid for 72 hours. Please allow 3-5 days from the time of payment for the payment to post to the student account. In Person Cashier's Office Balance due can be paid by cash, check, money order, or debit card (with a PIN) at the Cashier’s Office, located in room 110 on the first floor of the Howes Street Business Center located at: 555 South Howes Street. Drop Box Payment drop boxes are located in LSC on the main level in the hallway south of the RamCard/First National Bank suite, and on the 1st floor of the Howes Street Business Center. By Mail Payments made by mail should be by check payable to Colorado State University, drawn on a domestic US bank and payable in US dollars. To avoid processing delays and possible late payment charges, the student's ID number and whether the payment is for a student/commercial account or student loan should be clearly written on the face of the check. Payments sent by U.S. mail should be sent to the Cashier’s Office at: Colorado State University Cashier’s Office 6015 Campus Delivery Fort Collins, CO 80523-6015 Payment Plan You may pay your bill in elective monthly installments with the CSU payment plan. The payment plan offers no payment deferral charges and no financial registration hold while enrolled in a plan. For more details, navigate to my MyCollegePaymentPlan.com/ColoState. To enroll use the Billing and Tax Information menu item in RAMweb or FAMweb. CSU Department Resources Cashier's Office FPIs Cashier's Office Forms Banking Services PDI 2014 Home Units Resources Map CSU A-Z Call CSU: 970.491.6444 | Visit: ColoState.edu | CSU is an Affirmitive Action, Equal Opportunity Employer © 2022 - Business and Financial Services - Colorado State University