Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS DIVERSITY, EQUITY, & INCLUSIVITY GIVING INTRANET Nav Social Menu The Bush School of Government & Public Service Public Service is a noble calling. ABOUT About The Bush School Meet the Dean Diversity, Equity, & Inclusivity News/Media > Bush School News Bush School in the Media Bush School Podcast Inside The Bush School Social Media Media Information Allen Building Annenberg Conference Center The 41 Award Directory/Contact Info ACADEMICS International Affairs > Master of International Affairs Master of International Policy Bachelor’s/Master’s 5-Year (3+2) Program Master of International Affairs & Public Health (Combined) Public Service & Administration > Master of Public Service & Administration Executive Master of Public Service & Administration Bachelor’s/Master’s 5-Year (3+2) Program Master of PSAA & Education (Collaborative) Master of PSAA & Public Health (Collaborative) Graduate Certificates > Advanced International Affairs Homeland Security Nonprofit Management Public Management Geospatial Intelligence National Security Affairs Cybersecurity Policy Bush School Online > Executive Master of Public Service & Administration Advanced International Affairs Certificate Homeland Security Certificate Nonprofit Management Certificate Public Management Certificate Geospatial Intelligence Bush School DC > Master of International Policy Master of National Security & Intelligence Graduate Certificate in Advanced International Affairs ADMISSIONS Apply Now! International Affairs Public Service & Administration Bachelor’s/Master’s 5-Year (3+2) Program Executive Master of Public Service and Administration Graduate Certificates Bush School DC > Master of International Policy Master of National Security & Intelligence Financial Aid > International Affairs Public Service & Administration Bachelor’s/Master’s 5-Year (3+2) Program Executive Master of Public Service and Administration Graduate Certificates Scholarships & Aid Cost of Living FACULTY Faculty Directory Faculty Research > Research Overview Capstone Projects Institute for Science, Technology and Public Policy Mosbacher Institute for Trade, Economics, and Public Policy Scowcroft Institute of International Affairs Albritton Center for Grand Strategy Faculty Experts Faculty Spotlights RESEARCH Institutes > Institute for Science, Technology and Public Policy Mosbacher Institute for Trade, Economics, and Public Policy Scowcroft Institute of International Affairs Centers > Center for Nonprofits and Philanthropy Albritton Center for Grand Strategy Programs > Intelligence Studies Program Program on Women, Peace, and Security Middle East Program Program on Cyber Policy, Strategy, and Security Economic Statecraft Program Faculty Research Student Research > INTA Capstone Projects PSAA Capstone Projects PSAA Mini Capstone Projects STUDENTS Current Students > Student Spotlights Capstone Projects Public Service Leadership Program Student Organizations Leadership Development Medal of Excellence Prospective Students Alumni Career Services > Employment Statistics Internship Information Career Search Info Employers FAQ EVENTS Upcoming Events Annenberg Conference Center Directions & Parking Info Recruitment Events News/Media DC SITE About Bush School DC Academic Programs Admissions Career Services News Events Faculty Staff/Contact Info About Us Home / About Us / Meet the Dean Meet the Dean General (Ret.) Mark A. Welsh III ✯ Dean ✯ Holder of the Edward & Howard Kruse Endowed Chair ✯ Executive Professor ✯ Email | (979) 862-8000 | Allen 2132A A Message From The Dean General (Ret.) Mark A. Welsh III became Dean of the Bush School of Government and Public Service on August 15, 2016, after retiring from the U.S. Air Force. Welsh, who was born in San Antonio, earned a Bachelor of Science degree from the U.S. Air Force Academy and a Master of Science degree in computer resource management from Webster University, and graduated from the Army Command and General Staff College, the Air War College and the National War College. He was a fellow of Seminar XXI at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a fellow of the National Security Studies Program of Syracuse University and Johns Hopkins University, a fellow of Ukrainian Security Studies at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, a fellow of the Pinnacle Course of the National Defense University and a graduate of the General Manager Program at the Harvard Business School. During his long military career, he received numerous awards and decorations, including the Defense Distinguished Service Medal with oak leaf cluster, Distinguished Service Medal with oak leaf cluster, Defense Superior Service Medal with oak leaf cluster, Legion of Merit with oak leaf cluster and Distinguished Flying Cross with oak leaf cluster. Welsh became the 20th Chief of Staff of the Air Force in August 2012, serving as the senior uniformed Air Force officer responsible for the organization, training and equipping of 664,000 active-duty, Guard, Reserve and civilian forces serving in the United States and overseas. As a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, he and other service chiefs functioned as military advisers to the Secretary of Defense, National Security Council and President. His most recent post was Commander of the U.S. Air Forces in Europe and Commander of NATO’s Air Command at Ramstein Air Base in Germany. He also served as Associate Director of Military Affairs at the Central Intelligence Agency and as Commandant of the United States Air Force Academy. Message from the Dean It’s still hard to believe I’m lucky enough to be here! It’s been an absolute privilege to meet and get to know our remarkable students, distinguished faculty members, deeply committed staff and the wider Texas A&M University community. What a wonderful place to be! The school’s reputation for excellence in academics, research and public service is well-established and growing. Our student body is one of the most diverse of any college at Texas A&M, with each student bringing a unique perspective to classroom discussions, research efforts and community service. Throughout the school year, our students also make significant contributions to the local community, demonstrating their commitment to volunteerism and modeling public service. The expertise, experience, and energy of our faculty continue to make this a school where scholars and students alike thrive. Widely respected in their fields of expertise and recognized as excellent teachers, our faculty are actively engaged in research related to complex policy issues, providing knowledge and guidance to decision-makers at all levels of government and the nonprofit sector. Many have significant experience in government and/or the private sector and use that experience to help guide our students as they try to determine their own future path. We are especially proud of our graduates’ impressive records of service and their impact in the public policy arena. It is clear that since its founding in 1997, the Bush School has had significant influence on communities, states, the nation and the world as its graduates gained key positions in government and nonprofit organizations. Their success reflects the breadth of knowledge and unique experiences acquired during their years on campus. Now, more than ever, we need well-trained, well-prepared, principled leaders who grasp the scope and context of increasingly complex issues. Today’s public servants need the skills to grapple with those issues and the character to lead in times of uncertainty. They face a challenging environment. Bush School graduates undertake competitive internships in the public, private and nonprofit sectors. They conduct rigorous research with real-world clients and are blessed with a rich classroom experience focused on critical thinking. They are well prepared to excel in that environment. Since 1997, their success has been our success. They show the world the quality of the people who come here and the quality of the education they receive. As our college matures, we must maintain a clear focus on our goals and work tirelessly to ensure the Bush School continues to grow in importance as an educational resource for Texas, the nation and the world. I am honored to be a part of this school and to contribute in some small way to the development of the remarkable leaders and scholars who are now part of the living legacy of President George H.W. Bush. I know how proud he would be of them. I just hope he knows how proud they are to represent him. Primary Sidebar About Us Links About The Bush School Meet the Dean Diversity, Equity, & Inclusivity Mission News & Media Bush School News Bush School in the Media Bush School Podcast Inside The Bush School Social Media Media Information Allen Building Annenberg Conference Center Bush School Backgrounds The 41 Award Directory/Contact Info Employment Footer College Station | Online | Washington, DC CS Map | DC Map | Directory CS Phone: 979-862-3469 DC Phone: 202-773-0018 ACADEMICS • International Affairs • Public Service & Admin • Graduate Certificates • Bush School Online • Bush School DC FACULTY • Faculty Directory • Faculty Research • Faculty Experts • Faculty Spotlights • DC Faculty Directory STUDENTS • Prospective Students • Current Students • Alumni • Employment Statistics • Career Services RESEARCH • ISTPP • Mosbacher Institute • Scowcroft Institute • Center for Nonprofits • CGS ©2022 The Bush School of Government and Public Service · Texas A&M University State of Texas · State Links & Policies · Link Policy Privacy & Security Policy · Accessibility Policy · Intranet