✯ ✯ Bush School DC Accepting NSI Applications for Fall 2022 ✯ ✯ Accepting MIP Applications for Summer and Fall 2022 Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS DIVERSITY, EQUITY, & INCLUSIVITY GIVING INTRANET Nav Social Menu The Bush School of Government & Public Service Public Service is a noble calling. ABOUT About The Bush School Meet the Dean Diversity, Equity, & Inclusivity News/Media > Bush School News Bush School in the Media Bush School Podcast Inside The Bush School Social Media Media Information Allen Building Annenberg Conference Center The 41 Award Directory/Contact Info ACADEMICS International Affairs > Master of International Affairs Master of International Policy Bachelor’s/Master’s 5-Year (3+2) Program Master of International Affairs & Public Health (Combined) Public Service & Administration > Master of Public Service & Administration Executive Master of Public Service & Administration Bachelor’s/Master’s 5-Year (3+2) Program Master of PSAA & Education (Collaborative) Master of PSAA & Public Health (Collaborative) Graduate Certificates > Advanced International Affairs Homeland Security Nonprofit Management Public Management Geospatial Intelligence National Security Affairs Cybersecurity Policy Bush School Online > Executive Master of Public Service & Administration Advanced International Affairs Certificate Homeland Security Certificate Nonprofit Management Certificate Public Management Certificate Geospatial Intelligence Bush School DC > Master of International Policy Master of National Security & Intelligence Graduate Certificate in Advanced International Affairs ADMISSIONS Apply Now! International Affairs Public Service & Administration Bachelor’s/Master’s 5-Year (3+2) Program Executive Master of Public Service and Administration Graduate Certificates Bush School DC > Master of International Policy Master of National Security & Intelligence Financial Aid > International Affairs Public Service & Administration Bachelor’s/Master’s 5-Year (3+2) Program Executive Master of Public Service and Administration Graduate Certificates Scholarships & Aid Cost of Living FACULTY Faculty Directory Faculty Research > Research Overview Capstone Projects Institute for Science, Technology and Public Policy Mosbacher Institute for Trade, Economics, and Public Policy Scowcroft Institute of International Affairs Albritton Center for Grand Strategy Faculty Experts Faculty Spotlights RESEARCH Institutes > Institute for Science, Technology and Public Policy Mosbacher Institute for Trade, Economics, and Public Policy Scowcroft Institute of International Affairs Centers > Center for Nonprofits and Philanthropy Albritton Center for Grand Strategy Programs > Intelligence Studies Program Program on Women, Peace, and Security Middle East Program Program on Cyber Policy, Strategy, and Security Economic Statecraft Program Faculty Research Student Research > INTA Capstone Projects PSAA Capstone Projects PSAA Mini Capstone Projects STUDENTS Current Students > Student Spotlights Capstone Projects Public Service Leadership Program Student Organizations Leadership Development Medal of Excellence Prospective Students Alumni Career Services > Employment Statistics Internship Information Career Search Info Employers FAQ EVENTS Upcoming Events Annenberg Conference Center Directions & Parking Info Recruitment Events News/Media DC SITE About Bush School DC Academic Programs Admissions Career Services News Events Faculty Staff/Contact Info Washington, DC Home / The Bush School in Washington, DC / Degree Programs | Bush School in DC / Master of International Policy | Washington, DC Master of International Policy | Washington, DC Overview | Qualifications | Cost | Summer 2022 Courses | Fall 2022 Courses Resources | Testimonials | Calendar | MIP in DC Brochure The Master of International Policy (MIP) educates those who have already begun their careers in the fields of international affairs and national security. Students admitted to the program will have at least four years of professional experience in those fields, broadly understood. The degree is offered in residence at the Bush School Washington, DC (with an option of taking up to 6 credit hours online). Overview The Master of International Policy program is a 30-credit-hour program with no capstone project requirement. Curriculum: Students will take courses from the National Security and Diplomacy (NSD) track. The curriculum consists of two required courses (6 credit hours) in both the theory and practice of international politics and in fundamentals of the global economy. Additional elective courses are chosen from the NSD track, with the option to concentrate in specific subject areas as the curriculum develops. The curriculum consists of two required courses: INTA 606—The Theory and Practice of International Politics (3 credit hours) INTA 608—Fundamentals of Global Economy (3 credit hours) Students take five courses (15 credit hours) in the National Security and Diplomacy track. The remaining three courses (9 credit hours) are electives. Apply now for Summer 2022, Fall 2022, and Spring 2023! The full degree can be completed either on a part-time basis or, if a student desires, over the course of a year. To complete the program as a fulltime student in a year, the student will take a regular four-course load in the fall and spring semesters and two courses via distance learning from the Bush School’s Office of Extended Education in the summer. For information on application procedures, please contact our Admissions Office at bushschooDC@tamu. Qualifications A bachelor’s degree and a minimum of four years of professional experience in the field of international affairs, broadly understood, are required. (Such experience does NOT include educational experiences like semester abroad or undergraduate internships.) Cost The Bush School of Government and Public Service is committed to supporting graduate students as they pursue careers in public service. The Bush School DC offers an affordable fixed rate tuition: Estimated yearly cost: $1,300 per credit hour (3-credit-hour course = $3,900) Academic Resources Career Services: Students will have access to dedicated one-on-one career counseling with our Director of Enrollment Management, Career and Student Services. Writing Resources: The Bush School DC provides writing services to help students with academic and professional writing. Appointments can be in person or online. Bush School DC Library: The Bush School DC provides an in-house librarian to help students with any research needs. In addition to our collection of library resources, students have access to Texas A&M’s vast digital and library collections. Summer 2022 Courses The following is a tentative schedule for classes in Summer semester 2022. Students will register for classes through the Texas A&M “Howdy” portal. All classes meet in Bush School DC location – 1620 L Street, NW. Monday INTA 651 – National Security Policy and the Military Day: Monday | Instructor: McLaughlin | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: A graduate-level seminar on national security policy that will provide a forum for developing an understanding of key concepts, players, institutions, intergovernmental processes, and contemporary issues in the national security policy domain. INTA 689 – Iran: From Islamic Revolution to Regional Power Day: Tuesday | Instructor: Pino | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: TBD Tuesday INTA 689 – Key Issues in European Politics Day: Tuesday | Instructor: Quinville | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: TBD Wednesday INTA 651 – National Security Policy and the Military Day: Wednesday | Instructor: McLaughlin | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: A graduate-level seminar on national security policy that will provide a forum for developing an understanding of key concepts, players, institutions, intergovernmental processes, and contemporary issues in the national security policy domain. INTA 689 – Iran: From Islamic Revolution to Regional Power Day: Tuesday | Instructor: Pino | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: TBD Thursday INTA 689 – Key Issues in European Politics Day: Thursday | Instructor: Quinville | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: TBD Fall 2022 Courses The following is a tentative schedule for classes in Fall semester 2022. Students will register for classes through the Texas A&M “Howdy” portal. All classes meet in Bush School DC location – 1620 L Street, NW. Monday INTA 689 – Rising Powers Day: Monday | Instructor: Lemon | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: INTA 608 – Global Economy Day: Monday | Instructor: TBD | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 | Spring 2022 | Fall 2021 | Summer 2021 | Spring 2021 Course Description: Examines three fundamental pillars of the global economy: international trade, international finance and foreign direct investment (FDI); appreciation for the complexities of the international environment from both theoretical and policy perspectives. INTA 689 – African Politics and Regional Affairs Day: Monday | Instructor: Laurienti | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: TBD Tuesday INTA 714 – Defense Intelligence Day: Tuesday | Instructor: Gentile | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Spring 2022 Course Description: Exposure to historical and contemporary defense intelligence capabilities as a part of the military decision making environment; examination of how multiple capabilities and organizations work together to inform leader; examination of the five major intelligence disciplines; exposure to a variety of scenarios involving an all source approach to intelligence; examination of the individual services’ intelligence capabilities, proficiencies and unique contributions to the Intelligence Community (IC). INTA 700 – Counterintelligence Day: Tuesday | Instructor: Ross | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 | Spring 2022 | Fall 2021 | Summer 2021 | Spring 2021 Course Description: In-depth understanding of the arcane and often misunderstood world of counterintelligence. INTA 689 – Culture and International Politics Day: Tuesday | Instructor: Shynkaruk | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: TBD INTA 605 – American Foreign Policy Day: Tuesday | Instructor: Weber | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: An examination of American foreign policy from 1945 to the present; focus on decisions made by American elected and appointed officials at critical moments of the Cold War and after; theory provides a framework, but the focus is on practical matters that confronted decision-makers. Wednesday INTA 689 – Foreign Policy Process Day: Wednesday | Instructor: Peterlin | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: TBD INTA 689 – Strategy, Risk, and Foresight in International Relations Day: Wednesday | Instructor: Weber | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: TBD INTA 606 – International Politics in Theory and Practice Day: Wednesday | Instructor: Lemon | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: The effects of international politics on the competing forces of global integration and disintegration are investigated and policy implications are considered, drawing upon theories of interstate politics. INTA 689 – The US in the Middle East Day: Wednesday | Instructor: Pino | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: TBD Thursday INTA 652 – Role of Intelligence in Security Affairs Day: Thursday | Instructor: Ross | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 | Spring 2022 | Fall 2021 | Summer 2021 | Spring 2021 Course Description: A survey of U.S. Intelligence operations, techniques, objectives and resources, with particular emphasis on how intelligence has contributed and continues to contribute to U.S. national security. INTA 689 – Eastern European Politics Day: Thursday | Instructor: TBD | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: TBD INTA 672 – East Asian Security Day: Thursday | Instructor: TBD | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 | Spring 2022 Course Description: Examination of international military, diplomatic and political dynamics in the Asia Pacific region; focus on contemporary security relations; examines a wide range of security challenges facing the region; familiarization with the strategic preferences of key actors in the major areas of potential conflict. INTA 620 – International Security Day: Thursday | Instructor: Kanin | Time: 6:30-9:10pm | Room: TBD Syllabus: Fall 2022 Course Description: Evaluates frameworks for understanding international conflict and then uses these perspectives to survey security problems across several regions, including East Asia, the Middle East and South Asia. Testimonials “Dr. Weber’s International Relations Theory course was the most challenging, rewarding, and important class I’ve ever taken. He helped me understand how the real world works, and how to look beyond the headlines and interpret current events.” ALEXANDRA RUSSO Project Engineer at Leidos “America faces serious national security challenges every day. As a student at The Bush School, my professors and course work gave me the knowledge and skills I needed to take my career to the next level, meet those challenges directly and make a real difference from Day 1.” CODY CAZARES Senior Advisor for Congressman Michael T. McCaul “Our students are inspirational! They choose this School and University because they want to serve their fellow citizens. They’re serious about tackling the most pressing issues facing the world today. I’ve met graduates of the Bush School all over the globe; they’re making a difference each and every day. President George H. W. Bush’s vision of preparing principled leaders for service to their community, their nation, and their world is alive and well. The Master of International Policy program will advance that vision even further!” MARK WELSH Dean, Bush School of Government and Public Service Former Chief of Staff, United States Air Force “Our students have a stellar opportunity to pursue higher education in the very heart of our nation’s capital, with a wealth of resources, along with the power and reach of a robust network of alumni to welcome students into the “Aggie” family. Carrying the name of George H.W. Bush, our nation’s 41st president, Bush School students understand and appreciate the noble calling of public service. Our faculty are real world practitioners helping prepare students to advance their careers.” JAY SILVERIA Executive Director Academic Calendar The following changes to the Texas A&M University’s 2022-23 Academic Calendar will apply to Bush School DC. They are occasioned by different holidays in the District of Columbia that will require the closing of the teaching site. Primary Sidebar DC Links About Us About the Bush School DC Meet the DC Staff Modern Facility in the Heart of DC Degree Programs Overview Master of International Policy Master of National Security & Intelligence Recruitment Events Graduate Certificates Advanced International Affairs Faculty Career Services Students Student Handbook Admissions Master of International Policy Admissions Info Master of National Security & Intelligence Admissions Info Advanced International Affairs Recruitment Events News Events Giving FAQs Contact Us Footer College Station | Online | Washington, DC CS Map | DC Map | Directory CS Phone: 979-862-3469 DC Phone: 202-773-0018 ACADEMICS • International Affairs • Public Service & Admin • Graduate Certificates • Bush School Online • Bush School DC FACULTY • Faculty Directory • Faculty Research • Faculty Experts • Faculty Spotlights • DC Faculty Directory STUDENTS • Prospective Students • Current Students • Alumni • Employment Statistics • Career Services RESEARCH • ISTPP • Mosbacher Institute • Scowcroft Institute • Center for Nonprofits • CGS ©2022 The Bush School of Government and Public Service · Texas A&M University State of Texas · State Links & Policies · Link Policy Privacy & Security Policy · Accessibility Policy · Intranet