Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Management Undergraduate Programs Experiential learning International problem-solving Alumni The secret ingredient > Department of Management, Marketing, and International Business > Management Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/OBtmDOUZkAU MANAGEMENT, MARKETING & INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS Management Undergraduate Programs Marketing Undergraduate Programs International Business & Language Undergraduate Programs Studio Blue Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Management professionals formulate the policies and direct the operations of corporations, nonprofit organizations and government agencies — or chart their own path by pursuing new ventures as entrepreneurs. Management majors develop communication, critical thinking and problem-solving skills while learning management concepts. Degree options include innovation and entrepreneurship, business law, human resource management or sport management. Organizations do not manage themselves, and the skills necessary for good management are not inherent – they must be learned and developed over time. The University of Tulsa’s management degree program helps students learn these skills and offers specialization in business law, entrepreneurship or human resource management. Our approach heavily emphasizes hands-on experience. To succeed in an increasingly competitive international arena, students must be able to apply the knowledge they gain in class to an organizational setting. Our program focuses on the development of skills in managing people and facilitating effective organizational change. TU’s management program offers innovative courses in organizational behavior and human resource management as well as experiential learning opportunities, case studies and computer-based simulations. Management students gain practical experience through internships that involve working in either for-profit or not-for-profit organizations for course credit. Internships are viewed as an integral part of a student’s education. International business programs complement the management major. Students meet with corporate leaders during spring break trips to cities such as Buenos Aires, Santiago, Brussels and London. TU has partnerships with a number of universities in various parts of the world and students can also participate in summer internships abroad. Program Objectives Students completing the Management, B.S.B.A. major will: be well-grounded in management theory and concepts. develop critical thinking and analytical skills. understand ethical and effective leadership. Program Options Management, B.S.B.A. Emphasizes the development of skills and knowledge necessary for effectively managing people and facilitating organizational change. Students can choose the general management degree or one of four specializations: Business Law – Emphasis on issues and practices that reduce the risks of operating in today’s litigious business climate. Human Resource Management – Focuses on the challenges facing managers related to the recruitment and selection of the most talented people to operate an organization, as well as the most effective approaches to leading, motivating and retraining people in an organization. Innovation and Entrepreneurship – Examines the process of creating and capturing value whether in a new or existing enterprise. Sport Management – Addresses a need in the sports industry for students trained in modern business practices. Innovation, Change and Entrepreneurship Minor Designed for business and non-business students interested in adding an entrepreneurship-focused minor to complement their academic major. Sport Management Minor The Sport Administration Minor focuses on the issues and practices of business management in a sport context. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation Business in Society Foreign Language Foreign Language Math with Applications Basic Calculus Business Information Technology Block II – Historical & Social Interpretation Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience++ Block III – Scientific Investigation SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Macroeconomics (Block II) Microeconomics (Block II) Concepts in Accounting Information I Concepts in Accounting Information II Statistics I Statistics II Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Legal Environment of Business General Education Elective Block II – Historical & Social Interpretation JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Principles of Management Business Finance Introduction to CIS Operations Management Principles of Marketing Organizational Behavior Block III – Scientific Investigation General Education Elective Free Elective Free Elective (upper level) SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Negotiation and Management Skills Strategic Management Writing for the Professions Management Internship Management Elective Management Elective Management Elective General Education Elective (upper level) General Education Elective (upper level) Free Elective (upper level) * Introduction to College Writing or its equivalent may be a prerequisite in some cases. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT