Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY College of Business Toggle menu Go to search page College of Business You are here Programs » Undergraduate News Events Give Start Now Search Field College of Business » Undergraduate Programs » Business Administration Programs Undergraduate Accounting Apparel Design Business Administration Business Analytics Business Information Systems Design & Innovation Management Digital Marketing Digital Marketing Analytics Family Business Finance Hospitality Management Human Resource Analytics Information Security, Assurance, & Analytics Innovation & Entrepreneurship Innovation Management International Business Interior Design Management Market Research & Consumer Analytics Marketing Merchandising Management Retail Management Supply Chain & Logistics Management Graduate MBA Business Analytics Corporate Finance Human Resource Management Marketing Organizational Leadership Supply Chain & Logistics Management MSB Finance Financial Analytics Marketing Insights & Analytics Supply Chain Analytics Certificates Business Analytics Business Fundamentals Supply Chain & Logistics Management Ph.D. Minors Undergraduate Minors Graduate Minors Continuing Education Online Certificates Free Webinars Corporate & Business Training FAQ's Start Your Journey Apply Freshmen Transfer Students Paying for College Flexible Learning The OSU Difference Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Finish DAM Strong Learn about basic transfer requirements, major-specific requirements and map out your plan. Transfer to OSU The Microbusinesses Explore Blueprint Undergraduate Accounting Four-Year Plan Learning Goals and Objectives Required Courses Advisory Council Information Security, Assurance, and Analytics Four-year Plan Required Classes Apparel Design Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Business Analytics Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Business Information Systems Four-Year Plan Graduates Nike - Rebecca Bennett, Senior IT Project Manager The Standard (Insurance) - Adam Nasset, Governance and Compliance Analyst Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Design & Innovation Management Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Digital Marketing Digital Marketing Analytics Innovation & Entrepreneurship Advisory Council Four-Year Plan Required Courses Family Business Four-Year Plan Required Courses Advisory Council Financial Planning Finance Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Hospitality Management Learning Goals Human Resource Analytics Required Courses Innovation Management Four-Year Plan Required Courses International Business Four-Year Plan Required Courses Interior Design Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Management Four-Year Plan Learning Goals PRIME Experience Required Courses Advisory Council Marketing Career Options Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Merchandising Management Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Supply Chain and Logistics Management Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Business Administration Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Market Research and Consumer Analytics Required Courses Retail Management Online option (via Ecampus) Required Courses Sports Business Graduate MBA Business Analytics Corporate Finance Human Resource Management Marketing Organizational Leadership Supply Chain & Logistics Management MSB Marketing Insights & Analytics Supply Chain Analytics Certificates Business Analytics Business Fundamentals Supply Chain & Logistics Management Ph.D. Admission Requirements Application Information Directory Learning Objectives Options Minors Graduate Minors Undergraduate Minors Continuing Education Continuing and Professional Education Corporate Training Online Certificate Programs Portland Executive Training Flexible Learning Bend-OSU Cascades Corvallis Online Portland Hybrid Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Minors Student Experience Advising Academic Planning Advising Team Resources Schedule an Appointment Career Success Student Support Find a Job or Internship Career Success Team Advisory Council Make an Appointment Student Centers Center for Advancing Financial Education InnovationX Sales Academy Student Success Blueprint: A Plan for Success Scholarships Study Abroad Student Clubs This Week in Business Tutoring Resources Resources Computer Lab Design DAMLab Makerspace MyCOB Project Rooms Start Your Journey Hone your skills and emerge developed into hard-working leaders, ready to take on any challenge. Start Now > Graduate Career Ready Find a job, discover an internship, jumpstart your career. Learn about Career Success > Advising Academic Planning Orientation Earning Your Credits Transferring Your Credits Our Degrees Professional Studio Register Advising Team Resources Incoming International Exchange Students Academic Information How to Apply Exchange Student Housing Info for Exchange Coordinators Business Core Courses Majors Orientation Changing Majors To The College Of Business Course Substitutions And Bac Core Double Counts Academic Policies and Standards BA 210 Internship form COB Laptop Recommendations COB Internship Request Form (for juniors/seniors) College of Business Code of Honor College of Business Course Materials Learning Goals and Objectives for Business Majors MECOP Internship form Transfer students: request an unofficial transcript evaluation Advising Schedule a Meeting Career Success Student Support MECOP MECOP Process Career Success Team Find a job or internship Register an Internship Advisory Council Make an Appointment Student Success Blueprint Study Abroad Cost Information and Funding Options Design Study Abroad Or Exchange Getting Residence Permits And Visas Health Insurance and Travel Safety Stonehill Exchange program Student Clubs Student Club Resources Tutoring Resources Scholarships This Week in Business First-Year Students Resources Business Research Suite Computer Lab Helpdesk Microsoft Developer Network Academic Alliance Office 365 DAMlab Makerspace Embroidery Guide 3D Printing Guide Printrbot Simple Metal Guide Oscilloscope Guide Sewing Machine Guide Soldering Guide Support Form T-Shirt Printing Vector and Bitmap Image Guide Vinyl Stickers Guide Design MyCOB Project Rooms The College of Business Reservation App Center for Advancing Financial Education (Cafe) InnovationX About Classes & Degrees Community Outreach Programs Events Faculty and Staff Resources & Programs Sales Academy Sales Competitions Sponsorship Opportunities Faculty & Research Faculty Research Faculty Research Publications Grant Awards Centers & Strategic Initiatives Center for Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Business Center for Business Analytics Center for Family Enterprise Center for Marketing and Consumer Insights Center for Supply Chain Management Featured Faculty Meet Dr. Ryann Reynolds-McIlnay, assistant professor of marketing and merchandising management. Read More > What is InnovationX? OSU's hub for student entrepreneurs, innovators and changemakers. Read More > The OSU Difference Our centers and initiatives give you hands-on, experiential learning opportunities. Entrepreneur? Check. Interested in market research? Yep. Want to advance gender equity and inclusion? We've got that, too. Centers and Strategic Initiatives Center for Marketing and Consumer Insights Center for Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Business Center for Business Analytics 2021 Business Analytics Symposium 2022 Business Analytics Symposium 2023 Business Analytics Symposium Center for Family Enterprise About Advisory Council Milestones Support Us Advisor Search Education Email Sign-Up Excellence in Family Business Awards Resources & Research Faculty Faculty Research Funded Research Research Companies & Recruiters Recruit & Hire Companies & Recruiters Education & Training Sponsored Research & Consulting Recruit & Hire Our Team Access Students Post jobs, internships, and find job-ready candidates. Go to Handshake > Why Hire a Beav? Our business engagement team connects you to talent. Find Out More > The OSU Difference More than 3,000 students 30k Alumni worldwide 28 degrees and areas of focus Degree programs and focus areas developed with industry advisory boards representative of more than 185 area and national businesses. We're graduating the workforce that you need. Education & Training Sponsored Research & Consulting About About The Dean Our People Advisory Councils Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Rankings & Pride Start Your Journey Hone your skills and emerge developed into hard-working leaders, ready to take on any challenge. Start Now > Diversity, Equity, Inclusion At the OSU College of Business, we champion diversity in experience, values, and perspective. Learn More > The OSU Difference At the College of Business, we're inspired by everything around us. We support bold risks, big dreams and never giving up. We prepare you for a diverse world and teach you to become engaged citizens and business leaders. Are you ready to get started? Explore Programs The Dean College of Business Rankings Dean's Council of Excellence Advisory Councils Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Our People Strategic Plan Alumni Welcome Alumni Alumni Recognition Business Gold Volunteer Where we are Our Team Give Now Your Lifelong Education Partner Transform your life with our online and in-person programs taught by College of Business faculty and industry experts. Discover Classes Build a Beaver Legacy The OSU Difference There are more than 30,000 College of Business alums in the world. Each year, hundreds of you inspire and mentor current students, and support internship and job opportunities at your companies. Because of you, the Beaver family is strong. Alumni Nominate Alumni Recognition Alumni Where We Are Business Gold Our Team Volunteer Volunteer with the College of Business Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Programs Undergraduate Accounting Apparel Design Business Administration Business Analytics Business Information Systems Design & Innovation Management Digital Marketing Digital Marketing Analytics Family Business Finance Hospitality Management Human Resource Analytics Information Security, Assurance, & Analytics Innovation & Entrepreneurship Innovation Management International Business Interior Design Management Market Research & Consumer Analytics Marketing Merchandising Management Retail Management Supply Chain & Logistics Management Graduate MBA Business Analytics Corporate Finance Human Resource Management Marketing Organizational Leadership Supply Chain & Logistics Management MSB Finance Financial Analytics Marketing Insights & Analytics Supply Chain Analytics Certificates Business Analytics Business Fundamentals Supply Chain & Logistics Management Ph.D. Minors Undergraduate Minors Graduate Minors Continuing Education Online Certificates Free Webinars Corporate & Business Training FAQ's Start Your Journey Apply Freshmen Transfer Students Paying for College Flexible Learning The OSU Difference Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Finish DAM Strong Learn about basic transfer requirements, major-specific requirements and map out your plan. Transfer to OSU The Microbusinesses Explore Blueprint Undergraduate Accounting Four-Year Plan Learning Goals and Objectives Required Courses Advisory Council Information Security, Assurance, and Analytics Four-year Plan Required Classes Apparel Design Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Business Analytics Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Business Information Systems Four-Year Plan Graduates Nike - Rebecca Bennett, Senior IT Project Manager The Standard (Insurance) - Adam Nasset, Governance and Compliance Analyst Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Design & Innovation Management Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Digital Marketing Digital Marketing Analytics Innovation & Entrepreneurship Advisory Council Four-Year Plan Required Courses Family Business Four-Year Plan Required Courses Advisory Council Financial Planning Finance Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Hospitality Management Learning Goals Human Resource Analytics Required Courses Innovation Management Four-Year Plan Required Courses International Business Four-Year Plan Required Courses Interior Design Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Management Four-Year Plan Learning Goals PRIME Experience Required Courses Advisory Council Marketing Career Options Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Merchandising Management Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Supply Chain and Logistics Management Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Advisory Council Business Administration Four-Year Plan Learning Goals Required Courses Market Research and Consumer Analytics Required Courses Retail Management Online option (via Ecampus) Required Courses Sports Business Graduate MBA Business Analytics Corporate Finance Human Resource Management Marketing Organizational Leadership Supply Chain & Logistics Management MSB Marketing Insights & Analytics Supply Chain Analytics Certificates Business Analytics Business Fundamentals Supply Chain & Logistics Management Ph.D. Admission Requirements Application Information Directory Learning Objectives Options Minors Graduate Minors Undergraduate Minors Continuing Education Continuing and Professional Education Corporate Training Online Certificate Programs Portland Executive Training Flexible Learning Bend-OSU Cascades Corvallis Online Portland Hybrid Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Minors Student Experience Advising Academic Planning Advising Team Resources Schedule an Appointment Career Success Student Support Find a Job or Internship Career Success Team Advisory Council Make an Appointment Student Centers Center for Advancing Financial Education InnovationX Sales Academy Student Success Blueprint: A Plan for Success Scholarships Study Abroad Student Clubs This Week in Business Tutoring Resources Resources Computer Lab Design DAMLab Makerspace MyCOB Project Rooms Start Your Journey Hone your skills and emerge developed into hard-working leaders, ready to take on any challenge. Start Now > Graduate Career Ready Find a job, discover an internship, jumpstart your career. Learn about Career Success > Advising Academic Planning Orientation Earning Your Credits Transferring Your Credits Our Degrees Professional Studio Register Advising Team Resources Incoming International Exchange Students Academic Information How to Apply Exchange Student Housing Info for Exchange Coordinators Business Core Courses Majors Orientation Changing Majors To The College Of Business Course Substitutions And Bac Core Double Counts Academic Policies and Standards BA 210 Internship form COB Laptop Recommendations COB Internship Request Form (for juniors/seniors) College of Business Code of Honor College of Business Course Materials Learning Goals and Objectives for Business Majors MECOP Internship form Transfer students: request an unofficial transcript evaluation Advising Schedule a Meeting Career Success Student Support MECOP MECOP Process Career Success Team Find a job or internship Register an Internship Advisory Council Make an Appointment Student Success Blueprint Study Abroad Cost Information and Funding Options Design Study Abroad Or Exchange Getting Residence Permits And Visas Health Insurance and Travel Safety Stonehill Exchange program Student Clubs Student Club Resources Tutoring Resources Scholarships This Week in Business First-Year Students Resources Business Research Suite Computer Lab Helpdesk Microsoft Developer Network Academic Alliance Office 365 DAMlab Makerspace Embroidery Guide 3D Printing Guide Printrbot Simple Metal Guide Oscilloscope Guide Sewing Machine Guide Soldering Guide Support Form T-Shirt Printing Vector and Bitmap Image Guide Vinyl Stickers Guide Design MyCOB Project Rooms The College of Business Reservation App Center for Advancing Financial Education (Cafe) InnovationX About Classes & Degrees Community Outreach Programs Events Faculty and Staff Resources & Programs Sales Academy Sales Competitions Sponsorship Opportunities Faculty & Research Faculty Research Faculty Research Publications Grant Awards Centers & Strategic Initiatives Center for Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Business Center for Business Analytics Center for Family Enterprise Center for Marketing and Consumer Insights Center for Supply Chain Management Featured Faculty Meet Dr. Ryann Reynolds-McIlnay, assistant professor of marketing and merchandising management. Read More > What is InnovationX? OSU's hub for student entrepreneurs, innovators and changemakers. Read More > The OSU Difference Our centers and initiatives give you hands-on, experiential learning opportunities. Entrepreneur? Check. Interested in market research? Yep. Want to advance gender equity and inclusion? We've got that, too. Centers and Strategic Initiatives Center for Marketing and Consumer Insights Center for Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Business Center for Business Analytics 2021 Business Analytics Symposium 2022 Business Analytics Symposium 2023 Business Analytics Symposium Center for Family Enterprise About Advisory Council Milestones Support Us Advisor Search Education Email Sign-Up Excellence in Family Business Awards Resources & Research Faculty Faculty Research Funded Research Research Companies & Recruiters Recruit & Hire Companies & Recruiters Education & Training Sponsored Research & Consulting Recruit & Hire Our Team Access Students Post jobs, internships, and find job-ready candidates. Go to Handshake > Why Hire a Beav? Our business engagement team connects you to talent. Find Out More > The OSU Difference More than 3,000 students 30k Alumni worldwide 28 degrees and areas of focus Degree programs and focus areas developed with industry advisory boards representative of more than 185 area and national businesses. We're graduating the workforce that you need. Education & Training Sponsored Research & Consulting About About The Dean Our People Advisory Councils Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Rankings & Pride Start Your Journey Hone your skills and emerge developed into hard-working leaders, ready to take on any challenge. Start Now > Diversity, Equity, Inclusion At the OSU College of Business, we champion diversity in experience, values, and perspective. Learn More > The OSU Difference At the College of Business, we're inspired by everything around us. We support bold risks, big dreams and never giving up. We prepare you for a diverse world and teach you to become engaged citizens and business leaders. Are you ready to get started? Explore Programs The Dean College of Business Rankings Dean's Council of Excellence Advisory Councils Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Our People Strategic Plan Alumni Welcome Alumni Alumni Recognition Business Gold Volunteer Where we are Our Team Give Now Your Lifelong Education Partner Transform your life with our online and in-person programs taught by College of Business faculty and industry experts. Discover Classes Build a Beaver Legacy The OSU Difference There are more than 30,000 College of Business alums in the world. Each year, hundreds of you inspire and mentor current students, and support internship and job opportunities at your companies. Because of you, the Beaver family is strong. Alumni Nominate Alumni Recognition Alumni Where We Are Business Gold Our Team Volunteer Volunteer with the College of Business Business Administration Business Administration > Learning Goals Required Courses Four-Year Plan Business Administration Prepare for an exciting career as a problem-solver and decision-maker who can identify opportunities for business Overview Business Administration Get ready to be a problem-solver, decision-maker and leader who can identify opportunities to evaluate the success of any organization. Our business administration degree provides you with broad business skills in accounting and quantitative methods, an understanding of the legal and social environment of business, and a background in management and organizational behavior, marketing, finance, and operations management. A business administration degree is the starting point for many careers in business, and it opens any number of doors to entry-level business jobs. But we'll help you go a step further. Our degree options will prepare you for a career in high-demand job sectors like digital marketing, supply chain, entrepreneurship or merchandising management. Business administration is a major program of study offered in Corvallis, Bend, Portland and online through Ecampus. Options: Once you enroll in the business administration program, you can select an area of focus from the following options: Dean's Academy The Dean’s Academy is an academic forum for high-achieving first-year students, transfer students, and current undergraduate students who wish to maximize the educational and experiential aspects of their college experience. Invitation to this option is restricted to those who meet eligibility requirements. Learn more Digital Marketing Digital marketing provides you with the knowledge to develop data-driven strategies for social media, websites and email campaigns. You'll enter the workforce able to make data-driven decisions using analytics and business intelligence and be proficient in SEO/SEM strategies. Learn more Family Business It's vital to understand the unique dynamics within a family business to equip family members and non-family consultants and executives with the added expertise they need to help a thriving family firm endure. You'll graduate with the insights to balance the business, the family and employees, and leverage new opportunities, for example, broadening the portfolio of assets. Learn more Hospitality Management The hospitality management degree is designed to equip you with skills in service, operations management, hospitality technology, food and beverage operations, as well as solid business fundamentals in marketing and accounting. With a focus on the jobs of the future, this specialized degree path will make you well-positioned to go directly into management and be on the fast track to executive leadership or ownership positions in this rapidly changing field. Learn more Innovation & Entrepreneurship Business advantages require change-makers, disrupters, and insightful thinkers. Entrepreneurship embraces these forces of creativity, innovation and process-based refinements. Here you'll learn how to recognize and develop opportunities in any organization, including corporations, non-profits, family, and small business. Learn more International Business This area of study prepares you for management positions and exciting international careers at multinational firms, global financial service organizations and international centers of trade. Learn more Marketing The heart of marketing is creating value in a complex, advanced economy. Marketing consists of a sequence of activities: identifying customer needs, developing goods and services to satisfy those needs, communicating information about products to potential customers, and distributing the products to customers. Learn more Merchandising Management You’ll graduate with a solid business foundation in merchandising topics including global sourcing, consumer behavior, retail merchandise planning and others. And, you're learning with the best — our program is ranked No. 12 in the nation, and No. 1 on the west coast for fashion merchandising by fashion-schools.org. Learn more Retail Management Retail management offers you specialized knowledge of management and marketing strategies relevant to the retail industry. The online coursework details all the steps required to bring the customers into the store and fulfill their buying needs. Learn more Sports Business The sports business option provides students with an understanding of the fundamentals of the business of sport, including sports finance, marketing, analytics and sponsorship. The program builds on core business knowledge acquired in business and design programs, and prepares students for careers in sports-related organizations. Learn more Supply Chain and Logistics Management Trade, manufacturing, sourcing, global production — every item you touch and use — has a complex story of parts and pieces that brought the functioning item to you; supply chain and logistics management provides you with the knowledge to optimize how all these parts come together and when developed, in front of consumers. While studying supply chain and logistics management, you'll train to be operations and procurement managers for companies and government agencies within manufacturing and service sectors around the globe. Learn more 28+ degrees and areas of focus of classes have fewer than 50 students #3 nationally for online education US News and World Report Business Administration Opportunities Study Abroad Sydney, Australia: University of Technology Sydney Vienna, Austria: Vienna University of Economics & Business Santiago, Chile: Universidad de Chile, Facultad Economia y Negocios Explore study abroad opportunities > Associated Clubs Business Information Systems Supply Chain Club Management Association See all clubs > Scholarships Joe D Lewis Scholarship Foodguys Values Business Scholarship Helen Mae Cropsey Memorial Scholarship Glenn L Jackson Memorial Scholarship See all scholarship opportunities > Possible Careers Human Resources Sales Manager Public Relations Market Research Analyst Two amazing terms, two simple words: The Microbusinesses The Microbusinesses are the most engaging and provoking learning experiences we can possibly offer to our first-year business students. This isn’t “monopoly money” or digital coin; these are real bank accounts with financial resources loaned and an expectation for profits. A team of fellow students helps you plan sales and marketing strategies; our DamLab makerspace is your factory for prototypes and production, and we offer all the academic support you need to create and launch a microbusiness. What could go wrong!!!! “To be honest, I expected the first year of business school to be all book work — just reading about business without much doing — with junior and senior year being when we’d write business plans. “So for us to be working together as freshmen to start our own business and launch a real product is pretty exciting. Not to mention, our product could really take off, which makes this much more motivating than your average team project.” Read More Meet Regan Mott It started out like any other day at Beaverton High School for Regan Mott. She was sitting in the cafeteria, visiting with friends. Mott was waiting to hear back about a scholarship she had applied for to attend Oregon State University. Mott has been coming to Oregon State her whole life, attending sporting events with her family. It’s where her parents met, and the college was her top choice, too. Before heading back to class, Mott refreshed her email one more time ... “When I saw that I got an email from the College of Business, I started freaking out,” Mott recalls. “I was too afraid to open it.” Read More " I enjoy challenges, and I love to learn. That desire to learn and solve tough problems has guided me my entire career. Kate Johnson '98 Act-On Software CEO Where our graduates work Graduates from the college's business administration program have become computer analysts, business process analysts, quality control managers, IT project managers, consultants, teachers, systems' analysts, chief information officers and more. Adecco Cambia Cambia Health Solutions Compucom Daimler Dell Deloitte Huron Health Care Intel Nike Odom Portland General Electric Providence Health Services Puppet Labs Salesforce Schnitzer The Standard Umpqua Bank Here's why you should be a College of Business student A success plan for life Professional, personal and leadership skills form the backbone of successful careers. Blueprint, our award-winning series of classes, is focused on professional and leadership development and financial literacy. With Blueprint, you’re on track to graduate on time, with the skills and network to choose your career, and the savvy to make the big decisions at the right time. We're not just business; we're family Our first-year students live in one of our business-themed residence halls. This learning-focused, student-first, open-door culture makes the big Oregon State campus feel like the supportive place it is – and feel a lot smaller and easier to navigate than you might think. We’re the only college at OSU that has a dedicated Career Success Center for our students. We help you find an internship, write a resume and find a job. Ranked and accredited Oregon State is ranked in the top five for online education with U.S. News & World Report. The College of Business overall, as well as our accounting program, is accredited by AACSB International – the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. AACSB International is the premier accrediting agency for degree programs in business and accounting. Discover the OSU difference Business Administration > Learning Goals Required Courses Four-Year Plan Business Administration > › REQUEST INFOAPPLY NOW Oregon State University College of Business 2751 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, Oregon 97331 Phone: 541-737-2551 Fax: 541-737-4890 Staff & Students My COB MyDegrees Canvas Follow Us Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Instagram SUBSCRIBE Subscribe to our newsletter to receive updates and information about the College of Business. Copyright © 2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer