Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact In this Section About Accreditation COB Student Life Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion Leadership & Admin LEAP Learning at COB Life in Louisville Our Campus College Rankings Excellence Awards LEAP: Our Points of Distinction The spirit of entrepreneurship courses through everything we do at the College of Business at the University of Louisville. It is essential to community growth, job creation, and prosperity. We’re committed to students who are builders, creators, and doers. We give them the tools to take that entrepreneurial spirit and change the world. This commitment is codified by LEAP — an acronym (Louisville Entrepreneurial Accelerating Principled) for the College’s distinctive qualities that define the school’s intent and guides activities. L (Louisville) The University of Louisville’s College of Business is deeply and deliberately “of Louisville.” We build upon the city’s strengths, and we contribute to those strengths in purposeful and reciprocal ways. We are committed to making all of Louisville and all of its citizens better as, at the same time, the city defines us and grounds our strategies and programs. This is not a provincial vision; the College of Business is an essential part of what makes Louisville a vital global city. E (Entrepreneurial) We have a demonstrated strength in developing entrepreneurial mindsets focused on possibilities and the expert pursuit of opportunities. This entrepreneurial orientation is manifest in programs focused specifically on new venture creation and suffuses all our programs, providing all of our students with the optimistic mindsets of opportunity recognition and creative change. A (Accelerating) We have a history of great success and an unending passion for creating access for all and accelerating lives in pursuit of principled ambitions. This emphasis on accelerating lives emphasizes the proactive inclusion of everyone – of all lives, regardless of differences, seen and unseen – and the embrace of diverse backgrounds and perspectives in a diverse, nurturing, and supportive organization. P (Principled) We are committed to securing the College’s place as a global leader in producing principled citizens and business leaders who act ethically and with integrity, shaping sustainable, socially-responsible organizations that change the world consistent with their values and their aspirations. Mission The College of Business at the University of Louisville offers high-quality undergraduate and graduate business programs that prepare our students for responsible and rewarding careers. We enhance the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business community through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We are building something that lasts. Vision The University of Louisville’s College of Business will be broadly recognized as the leading business school in this region and one of the leading metropolitan business schools in the United States. To accomplish these we will: Build upon our national reputation in the area of entrepreneurship by offering programs that foster an entrepreneurial perspective among our students and offer opportunities for our students to demonstrate their capabilities in a competitive environment. Offer masters and bachelors-level students an abundant variety of international learning experiences and provide faculty with opportunities to teach and research abroad. Offer undergraduate students opportunities for functional specializations. Develop an innovative menu of graduate business program offerings. Create a supportive faculty research environment that is consistent with our university’s mission of being a premier metropolitan research university. Enhance economic vitality of the region through academic programs and community outreach activities. Diversity & Inclusion We are a diverse community that values all members and their contributions, treats one another with civility and respect, and embraces inclusive leadership throughout the College. Mission, Vision, and Values Community Involvement Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish