Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact Providing the Blueprint Experience, research, innovation, connections — it’s all at your fingertips. We build leaders, because we are leaders. In this Section Faculty Directory Faculty News Research Blog Research & Publications Faculty & Research University of Louisville College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. At-A-Glance 28:1 Student: Faculty Ratio 79 # Full-Time and Tenured Professors 70 Average # of peer-reviewed publications (per year) View More Faculty Directory Get to know the award-winning faculty at the University of Louisville College of Business. Search faculty Faculty Honors Faculty Honors Entrepreneur of the Year Award Dr. Van Clouse was named Entrepreneur of the Year by EnterpriseCorp in 2018. Learn more about his inspiring story. Learn More Faculty in the news Setting the Bar “Online MBA (OMBA) has a near and dear place in my heart,” says Dr. Zachary Goldman, who serves as the... Read More Dr. Ryan Quinn Featured on Podcast The Academic Director of the Project on Positive Leadership, Dr. Ryan Quinn, was featured on Yes and Know, a podcast... Read More Government Policies Effect on Health Outcomes Recently, Jose Fernandez, PhD, has studied the effect of medical marijuana policies on opioid-related hospital admissions. Read More Dr. Manju Ahuja Named a 2021 AIS Fellow Award Recipient Dr. Manju Ahuja, Frazier Family Chair of Computer Information Systems, has been named a Fellow of the Association of Information... Read More Dr. Ryan Quinn interviewed on podcast Academic Director of Project on Positive Leadership and Associate Professor Ryan Quinn, PhD, appeared on an episode of the Human-Centered... Read More Bob Myers: A Legacy of Mentorship Fifty-five years in the service of students is a testament to... Read More Celebrating Faculty Service As another school year draws to a close, another set of graduates cross the threshold from students tograduates. Their yet-to-be-written... Read More Engaging Research One of the most significant challenges that we have faced in this pandemic year has been staying connected—as both colleges... Read More Practice Positivity The Project on Positive Leadership was founded at UofL in 2018 to promote the spread of positive leadership worldwide. From... Read More Instilling Confidence Dr. Haleh Karimi’s twenty-year journey in IT has provided her with the experience and empathy to inspire tomorrow’s professionals beyond... Read More Previous Next Research & Publications Deep, impactful research is at the heart of our faculty’s mission and how we teach. Come learn of advancements in the field of business, innovative discoveries, awards, achievements, and more. View All View All Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish