Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > Department of Management, Marketing, and International Business > Innovation, Change & Entrepreneurship Minor Innovation, Change & Entrepreneurship Minor https://youtu.be/OBtmDOUZkAU MANAGEMENT, MARKETING & INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS Management Undergraduate Programs Marketing Undergraduate Programs International Business & Language Undergraduate Programs Studio Blue Faculty News Contact the Department Entrepreneurship requires a wide range of skills: problem solving, creative thinking, leadership, communications, planning, integration, organization and collaboration. Companies also value employees proficient in these areas – especially those who can creatively identify, frame and solve complex problems. To equip students to excel as entrepreneurs or team members who create enormous worth for organizations, the Collins College of Business now offers an innovation and entrepreneurship minor open to students enrolled in any major. Through collaborative experiences and unique learning opportunities, students enrolled in the innovation and entrepreneurship minor will: Study creativity and innovation frameworks, tools and techniques Learn to move beyond critical thinking to incorporate creative, innovative, design and strategic thinking Cultivate an entrepreneurial mindset Develop leadership and followership skills Develop lean analysis and related skills that apply to startup and established enterprise environments Understand how creative and entrepreneurial leadership skills help grow and sustain startups and existing enterprises Examine enterprise design and evolution, through development of business models Explore strategy and leadership skills that can move a startup to a stable enterprise and beyond Students begin the 15-hour program in their sophomore year and complete it during their senior year. After taking three fundamental courses, students can choose two additional courses to specialize in business, social or technology entrepreneurship. See the Academic Bulletin for a list of courses and requirements. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT