Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact In this Section Academics & Programs Graduate Programs Graduate Staff Directory Apply - Graduate Programs Graduate Tuition & Costs Academic Calendar MBA/MAC+ International Study Trip Utilize Your Military Experience Transfer/Visiting and New Grad Students Graduate Admissions Checklist MSBA Admissions Checklist International Applicant Graduate Admissions Checklist GMAT Resources GMAT Prep Videos Access GMAT/GRE Self Report Dual MBA PhD in Entrepreneurship Full-Time MBA Global MBA Online Programs Office Graduate Certificates Innovation MBA Master of Accountancy Plus Analytics (MAC+) Master of Science in Business Analytics Online MBA Professional MBA Personalized MBA Career Outcomes APPLY Apply Due to the COVID-19 situation, we are temporarily waiving our GMAT/GRE requirement for graduate business programs. Please fill out the GMAT WAIVER and complete your application for consideration. Contact Admissions for more details and exceptions. Admissions Checklists Review the MBA Admissions Checklist | MSBA Admissions Checklist International Applicants: International MBA Admissions Checklist 2022 Fall Graduate Program Applications Programs start in August 2022 Full-Time MBA Innovation MBA Master of Accountancy Plus Analytics (MAC+) Master of Science in Business Analytics (MSBA) Online MBA Professional MBA 2022 Graduate Certificate Applications Distilled Spirits Business Family Business Management and Advising Franchise Management Horse Racing Industry Managerial Analytics Post-Baccalaureate in Accounting Helpful Links GMAT/GRE Self-Report Form Prepare for GMAT Success – Free GMAT Resources Apply for a GMAT Waiver MBA Decision Guide Graduate Data Skills Guide Graduate Programs Comparison Chart Internship Information and Deadlines Louisville Athletics Internship Program The University of Louisville Athletic Association, Inc. (ULAA), has developed a practical, career-building internship model to prepare the next generation of athletic administrators and sports industry professionals. This exclusive ten-month program offers students hands-on experience and programming opportunities for passionate, hardworking graduate or professional degree-seeking students to develop knowledge, skills, and abilities in athletic administration. Positions are available within several focus areas and prepare interns for an entry- or mid-level position in athletic administration and/or the sports industry. To be considered, candidates must be enrolled at the University of Louisville in a graduate or professional degree program. Those selected will be assigned to various departments within ULAA depending on individual preferences, interests, and/or skill sets. Duration of Internship: August 1, 2022- May 28, 2023 Louisville Athletic Internship Deadline has passed for 2022. Connect with us to stay up to date on internship opportunities. Learn more about Internship opportunities Additional Internship Deadlines Humana: Application must be received by May 15 to be considered. All Other Companies: Application must be received by June 1 for priority consideration. Graduate Program Application Deadlines* All programs start in August of each year, therefore, the deadlines listed below are applicable for Fall 2022. June 1: Priority Deadline June 1: International Deadline * Contact us for late consideration Visiting Student Applicants Students visiting from another university or from a partner institution abroad may take elective MBA coursework on a space-available basis, provided they meet the prerequisites for the course. Visiting students also must meet graduate school requirements as determined by the Associate Dean for Masters Programs (ADMP). Visiting Student Application Important Websites www.mba.com to schedule the GMAT BeatTheGMAT.com (for free resources) Graduate Admissions Checklist A quick reference to help with the admissions process Learn More MSBA Admissions Checklist A guide to help get your MSBA into the application pipeline Learn More International Applicant Graduate Admissions Checklist Applicants are more than their paperwork and we are here to support you Learn More Tuition & Costs Information on tuition for our range of degrees and programs Learn More GMAT Resources A listing of information and support designed to prepare you for the exam Learn More Transfer/Visiting and New Grad Students From current UofL students to those from other universities, your transfer questions answered Learn More Academic Catalog: Graduate Programs Graduate Internships Graduate Programs Graduate Programs FAQ Housing Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish