Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > Friends of Finance > Friends of Finance featuring Brian Mandell Friends of Finance featuring Brian Mandell FRIENDS OF FINANCE Executive Speakers Schedule Friends of Finance Membership Finance Excellence Fund Previous Speakers Contact Friends of Finance This year, Friends of Finance will look different. Each event will be held virtually. Join us on November 18, 2020, at Noon for this presentation. Reserve your space now and 24-48 hours prior to the event a link to the virtual event will be emailed to you. Brian Mandell Brian Mandell is executive vice president, Marketing and Commercial for Phillips 66, a diversified energy manufacturing and logistics company. Mandell has more than 29 years of experience in various Marketing, Commercial and Midstream roles. Previously, Mandell served as senior vice president, Commercial; president, Global Marketing; and global trading lead, Clean Products, Commercial. Prior to joining Phillips 66 in May 2012, he worked for ConocoPhillips as manager, U.S. Gasoline Trading. There, Mandell served in the Commercial NGL group and was named manager of NGL Trading after working as manager of Processing Assets and Business Development. Mandell began his career with Conoco in 1991 working in various Marketing roles across the U.S. In 1998, he transferred to the Commercial organization as a market analyst and subsequently worked in a variety of trading roles including derivatives and clean products trading. He serves on the board of directors for DCP Partners Midstream, Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Houston and Child Advocates. He previously served on the boards of the Fuels Institute and The Petrochemical Feedstock Association of the Americas. Mandell attended the University of Texas at Austin and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in 1986 and an MBA in 1990. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT