Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Programs All Programs Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Alumni Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Home Programs Undergraduate Minors International Trade and Development International Trade and Development The international trade and development minor offers a range of courses on trade, international finance, and the economics of developing countries. You’ll have the opportunity to study macroeconomics issues in trade and finance and microeconomics issues rooted in Cornell’s long tradition as a leader in international agriculture. After completing courses in introductory economics, your elective courses can focus on topics such as the economics of food and agriculture, policy analysis, political economies, and research methods related to international development and emerging markets. Who’s eligible for the international trade and development minor? All Cornell undergraduates except students enrolled in Dyson. How many credits are required? 12 core credits (6 must be Johnson College of Business courses) on topics like intermediate microeconomics, international trade, finance, and policy. In addition, 6 credits in introductory microeconomics and macroeconomics are required. I’m interested. What’s next? After reviewing the requirements below and our FAQ and policies page, you can begin the process using the Business Minors Dashboard. Current students: You can manage your minor and track your progress using the Business Minors Dashboard. Foundation Courses This minor requires 6 credits in microeconomics and macroeconomics before taking the minor’s core courses. A letter grade of a C or better is required. Introductory economics (6 credits) Both courses are required: Course Code Course Title ECON 1110 Introductory Microeconomics ECON 1120 Introductory Macroeconomics Core Requirements The minor’s core requirements (12 credits) must be fulfilled by taking courses from the list below. Please note that 6 credits must be Johnson College of Business (JCB) courses, which include any course code of AEM, HADM, NBA, or NCC. A letter grade of a C or better is required. Transfer courses are not permitted for core requirements. Students may not “double count” courses that overlap with the other business minors – the courses you choose may only count toward one minor. Economic theory or practice (3 credits) One of the following courses is required: Course Code Course Title AEM 2600 Managerial Economics ECON 3030 Intermediate Microeconomic Theory PAM 2000 Intermediate Microeconomics International trade and development, various topics (9 credits) Three of the following courses are required: Course Code Course Title AEM 2300 International Trade and Finance AEM 2350 Introduction to the Economics of Development AEM 3390 Research Methods in International Development AEM 4290 International Financial Management AEM 4300 International Trade Policy AEM 4315 Economics of Developing Countries AEM 4350 Political Economy of the WTO AEM 4420 Emerging Markets AEM 4421 Research and Strategy in Emerging Markets AEM 4450 Toward a Sustainable Global Food System: Food Policy for Developing Countries AEM 4485 Economics of Food and Malnutrition AEM 4545 International Finance and Macroeconomics AEM 6300 Policy Analysis: Welfare Theory, Agriculture, and Trade AEM 6320 Open Economy Analysis: Theory and Applications AEM 6670 Topics in Economic Development Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Programs Undergraduate Admissions Minors Business Minor Business Minor for Engineers Business Minor for Life Sciences Majors Entrepreneurship and Innovation Applied Economics Food and Agricultural Business Sustainable Business and Economic Policy International Trade and Development Real Estate Policies and FAQs Graduate Executive Education Contact Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty & Staff Intranet SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Site Info Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell SC Johnson Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.