Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Programs All Programs Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Alumni Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Home Programs Undergraduate Minors Dyson Business Minor for Life Sciences Majors Dyson Business Minor for Life Sciences Majors The Dyson business minor for life sciences majors (DBMLS) prepares you for a successful career at the intersection of science and business. The minor’s curriculum focuses on basic business fundamentals and courses that complement life science topics. You will learn not only about entrepreneurship, marketing, management, finance, and economics, but also how these subjects are applied to life sciences career paths. This minor is popular among pre-med, pre-dental, and pre-vet students. The coursework provides a grounding in business principles that can help you understand the economic environment in which you’ll eventually practice. The DBMLS was established by way of a generous gift from Dr. Jonathan Levine ’76 and Stacey Levine and Dr. David Levine ’88 and Davena Levine ’88. Who’s eligible for the DBMLS? Select majors in the colleges of Arts & Sciences, Engineering, Human Ecology, and Agriculture and Life Sciences (see full list below). How many credits are required? 13.5 core credits (9 must be Johnson College of Business courses) across areas such as financial accounting, management, marketing, finance and more. In addition, 3 credits in microeconomics is the required foundation course. I’m interested. What’s next? After reviewing the requirements below and our FAQ and policies page, you can begin the process using the Business Minors Dashboard. Current students: You can manage your minor and track your progress using the Business Minors Dashboard. Eligible life sciences majors The DBMLS is open to students majoring in certain life sciences subjects within Cornell’s colleges listed below. If your major is not listed but you are on a pre-health track or taking significant life sciences courses, you may request a petition form. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Agricultural Sciences Animal Science Atmospheric Science Biological Engineering Biological Sciences Biology and Society Biometry and Statistics Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Entomology Environment and Sustainability Food Science Global and Public Health Sciences Interdisciplinary Studies International Agriculture and Rural Development Nutritional Sciences Plant Sciences Viticulture and Enology College of Arts and Sciences Biology and Society Biological Sciences Environment and Sustainability College of Engineering Biological Engineering College of Human Ecology Global and Public Health Sciences Human Biology, Health, and Society Human Development Nutritional Sciences Healthcare Policy Foundation Course This minor requires 3 credits in microeconomics. We recommend taking this course before taking the minor’s core courses and require it to be completed by your sixth semester. A letter grade of a C or better is required. Introductory microeconomics (3 credits) One of the following courses is required: Course Code Course Title ECON 1110 Introductory Microeconomics ECON 3030 Intermediate Microeconomic Theory PAM 2000 Intermediate Microeconomics Core Requirements The minor’s core requirements (13.5 credits) must be fulfilled by taking courses in the five areas listed below. Please note that 9 credits must be Johnson College of Business (JCB) courses, which include any course code of AEM, HADM, NBA, or NCC. In order to satisfy the JCB requirement, you may end up taking more than 13.5 credits as you complete the minor’s core requirements. A letter grade of a C or better is required. Students may not “double count” courses that overlap with the other business minors – the courses you choose may only count toward one minor Management/Marketing (3 credits) One of the following courses is required: Course Code Course Title AEM 1200 Introduction to Business Management AEM 2400 Marketing HADM 1810 Introduction to Management HADM 2410 Marketing Principles ILRID 1700 Intro to Organizations and Management NCC 4530 / 5530 Marketing Management NCC 5540 Managing and Leading in Organizations Financial accounting (3 credits) One of the following courses is required: Course Code Course Title AEM 2210 Financial Accounting HADM 2230 Financial Accounting Principles NCC 5500 Financial Accounting Finance (3 credits) One of the following courses is required: Course Code Course Title AEM 2241 / 5241 Finance HADM 2250 Finance NCC 5560 Managerial Finance Career goals (3 credits) 3 credits from the following list of courses are required. You may find the categories below helpful in selecting your courses to align with your post-graduation plans. Please note that many of these courses may have specific prerequisite courses outside of the minor. Entrepreneurship Course Code Course Title AEM 2220 Foundational Perspectives and Contemporary Issues in Entrepreneurship AEM 3110 Design and Innovation AEM 3249 Entrepreneurial Marketing and Strategy AEM 3251 The Business Laboratory and New Venture Management AEM 4355 Healthcare Entrepreneurship: Perspectives and Controversies AEM 4940 Special Topics in AEM: Dilemmas in Founding New Ventures NBA 6650 The Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation Life sciences business and human/veterinary medicine Course Code Course Title AEM 1600 The Business of Modern Medicine AEM 4485 Economics of Food and Malnutrition PAM 2350 The U.S. Health Care System PAM 3110 Pharmaceutical Management and Policy PAM 3280 DSOC 3280 Fundamentals of Population Health PAM 3780 Comparing Health Care Systems Around the World PAM 3870 PAM 5870 Economic Evaluations in Health Care Markets PAM 5630 Health Care Financial Management II Management, marketing, accounting, and finance Course Code Course Title AEM 3120 An Introduction to Branding and Brand Management AEM 3205 Ethics in Business and Organizations AEM 3230 Managerial Accounting NBA 6720 Managing Family and Privately Held Firms NCC 5540 Managing and Leading in Organizations Tools and frameworks for entrepreneurs and practitioners Course Code Course Title AEM 2011 Spreadsheet Modeling for Non-Dyson Majors AEM 3310 An Introduction to Business Regulation AEM 4190 Strategic Thinking Capstone Course (1.5 credits) The following course is required: Course Code Course Title AEM 4661 Business Simulation Capstone for Business Minors in Life Sciences Featured Faculty: Meet Robert Karpman Robert Karpman, a professor of practice and the faculty director of the Dyson business minor for life sciences majors, works comfortably at the intersection of business and healthcare having earned both an MD and MBA. Karpman has experience as an entrepreneur and orthopedic surgeon, and he’s served as the chief medical officer of two community hospitals. Learn more about Bob Karpman Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Programs Undergraduate Admissions Minors Business Minor Business Minor for Engineers Business Minor for Life Sciences Majors Entrepreneurship and Innovation Applied Economics Food and Agricultural Business Sustainable Business and Economic Policy International Trade and Development Real Estate Policies and FAQs Graduate Executive Education Contact Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty & Staff Intranet SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Site Info Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell SC Johnson Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.