Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Student Investment Fund https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=32Ugh4TRmNM STUDENT INVESTMENT FUND Why Join? SIF at a Glance Portfolio & Data Annual Reports Contact SIF Managing Real Money The University of Tulsa’s Student Investment Fund was established in 1997 and currently has more than $8 million in assets that students manage. The purpose of the fund is to provide students with the opportunity to obtain a real-world experience in the process of managing investment portfolios through buying and selling securities and learning about asset allocations. Students are able to apply financial theories and models in making real investment decisions and managing a real portfolio of financial assets. The class elects an executive officer and secretary and has four working committees: Portfolio Accounting and Risk, Macro Economic, Membership/Public Relations and Operations/MIS. Class sessions involve: (i) some knowledge transfer from the faculty advisor and experts from the industry; (ii) student presentations and reports of committee activities; (iii) investment discussion by students similar to how mutual fund managers discuss their holdings. For more information, please contact Tally Ferguson at tally-ferguson@utulsa.edu or Cristina Smith Williams at cristina@utulsa.edu. History of SIF On March 23, 1998, the Student Investment Fund (SIF) made its first transaction by purchasing 250 shares of Cohu and 215 shares of Tidewater. The value of the fund was $300,000. Most of the monies were invested in a money market fund. The original investment policy was to purchase small cap under-valued securities. However, the combination of a terrible market for small caps, the inability to make quick decisions, and the rapid turnover of students soon convinced the students that they needed to invest in a somewhat more mature market. The result was a move to mid-cap and large-cap securities. At the end of Spring 2013 semester, the SIF portfolio value crossed the $3 million threshold for the first time since its implementation in 1997. The portfolio is now valued at more than $6 million! Earnings from the SIF have been used to award approximately $1 million in scholarships. The future of the SIF is very bright. Enrollment is high. Friends of Finance, the organization that raises money for the SIF, is doing very well and is very committed to helping the SIF grow and improve the quality of the finance program. Policies and Procedures The Student Investment Fund Organization is guided by an Advisory Board and faculty adviser. To apply, please complete the Application form and return to Cristina Smith Williams, Collins College of Business, Room 208-A Helmerich Hall. Bylaws Investment Policy Parliamentary Procedures Student Application To apply, please complete the Application form and return to tally-ferguson@utulsa.edu. Student Investment Fund Application 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT