Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact In this Section Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research Blog Research & Publications Research Blog Research & Publications Sort by Date Sort by Date Sort by Title Sort by Author Narrow your results Publication Types Media Appearance ResearchAuthors Manju Ahuja, PhD Aaron Barnes, PhD Michael J. Barone, PhD Dereck Barr-Pulliam, PhD Sophonie Bazile Daniel Bennett, PhD Lisa M. Blum, LLM Isabel Botero, PhD Lynn Boyd, PhD Jay T. Brandi, PhD Reginald A. Bruce, PhD Carolyn M. Callahan, PhD Melissa A. Campbell, EdD Hilda Carrillo, PhD Yong Chao, PhD Nan-Ting Chou, PhD Imad A. Elhaj, PhD David J. Faulds, PhD Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD James O. Fiet, PhD T. Vernon Foster Benjamin P. Foster, PhD Per G. Fredriksson, PhD Xudong Fu, PhD Robert P. Garrett, Jr., PhD Richard Germain, PhD Stephan F. Gohmann, PhD Zachary W. Goldman, PhD Sandeep Goyal, PhD Brittany Green, PhD Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD Kenneth Hartung, MBA Barry M. Haworth, PhD Minjie Huang, PhD Julie (Ying) Huang, PhD Ghiyoung Im, PhD Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD Audrey D. Kline, PhD Abigail Koenig, PhD Katina Kulow, PhD Mina Kwon, PhD Thomas E. Lambert, PhD Conor Lennon, PhD Kristen Lucas, PhD Carl Maertz, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Warren (Dale) D. McIntosh, MS Sarah Memmi, PhD Todd A. Mooradian, PhD R. Charles Moyer, PhD Elizabeth Munnich, PhD Robert C. Myers, ABD Babu Nahata, PhD John P. Nelson, PhD Joshua C. Pinkston, PhD Dianna C. Preece, DBA Ryan W. Quinn, PhD P.S. Raju, PhD Charles L. Sharp, PhD Christopher T. Stivers, PhD William D. Stout, PhD Tian (Lori) Tang, PhD Harald Unkelbach John Vahaly, PhD Russell Williamson, CPA Andrew L. Wright, PhD Weihua Zhao, PhD Jozef M. Zurada, PhDKeywords Populist discourse and entrepreneurship: The role of political ideology and institutions Daniel Bennett, PhD Bourdreaux, C. Nikolaev, N. Journal of International Business Studies. April 2022 The effect of pill mill legislation on suicides Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD Jayawardhana, J. Health Services Research. April 2022 Impact of an enterprise system implementation on job outcomes: Challenging the linearity assumption Sandeep Goyal, PhD Venkatesh, V. Journal of Management Information Systems. April 2022 The long-run effects of minimum lot size zoning on housing redevelopment Weihua Zhao, PhD Journal of Housing Economics. March 2022 Simultaneous debt–equity holdings and corporate tax avoidance Tian (Lori) Tang, PhD Xu, L. Yan, X. Yang, H. Journal of Corporate Finance. February 2022 Advancing theory and practice on managing dysfunctional turnover: developing an improved measure of turnover reasons Carl Maertz, PhD Keith, M. Raghuram, S. Porter, C. Dalton, G. Organization Management. January 2022 A research note on textual disclosures about blockchain technology in 10-Ks Benjamin P. Foster, PhD Xin, C. Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy. January 2022 The effects of person-specific, task, and environmental factors on digital transformation and innovation in auditing: A review of the literature Dereck Barr-Pulliam, PhD Liburd-Brown, H. Munoko, I. Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting. January 2022 Bond risk’s role in the equity risk-return tradeoff Christopher T. Stivers, PhD Bansal, N. Journal of Financial Markets. January 2022 Entrepreneurial organizing activities and nascent venture performance Daniel Bennett, PhD Long, A. Wood, M. Small Business Economics. January 2022 Should we engage in philanthropy and/or impact investing? If so, how should we get started? Isabel Botero, PhD Enabling Next Generation Legacies: 35 questions that next generation members in Enterprising Families Ask. December 2021 Toward a family science perspective on executive compensation in family firms: A review and research agenda Isabel Botero, PhD Michiels, A. Kidwell, R. Family Business Review. December 2021 Do physicians warm up to higher Medicare prices? Evidence from Alaska Elizabeth Munnich, PhD Chen, A. Parente, S. Richards, M. Journal of Policy Analysis and Management. December 2021 Is an Emoji worth a thousand words? The effect of Emoji usage on nonprofessional investors’ perceptions Hilda Carrillo, PhD Pennington, R. Zhang, Y. Journal of Information Systems. December 2021 Psychometrics vs neurochemistry: A controversy around mobility-like scales of temperament Michael Araki Trofimova, I. Personality and Individual Differences. December 2021 COVID-19 regulations, political institutions, and the environment Per G. Fredriksson, PhD Environmental & Resource Economics. November 2021 Internal audit characteristics and managerial discretion in financial reporting Dereck Barr-Pulliam, PhD Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy. November 2021 Stock returns and inflation shocks in weaker economic times Christopher T. Stivers, PhD Connolly, R. Sun, L. Financial Management. November 2021 Consumers’ perceptions of product quality and entrepreneurial survival: evidence from the craft brewery industry Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD Stephan F. Gohmann, PhD Small Business and Enterprise Development. November 2021 Did the affordable care act increase the availability of employer-sponsored health insurance? Conor Lennon, PhD Southern Economic Journal. November 2021 Integrating uncertainty and governance into a capital structure puzzle: can risk-taking and rule-taking explain zero-leverage Michale Araki Martins, H. C. Review of Managerial Science. November 2021 The association between audit office team diversity and audit quality Julie (Ying) Huang, PhD Accounting Horizons. October 2021 Unbridled spirit: Illicit markets for bourbon whiskey Conor Lennon, PhD Shohfi, T. Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization. October 2021 Kentucky and the thoroughbred industries: prospects and challenges as gambling stagnates Thomas E. Lambert, PhD International Journal of Sports Policy and Politics. October 2021 Predicting home sale prices: A review of existing methods and illustration of data stream methods for improved performance Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Jozef M. Zurada, PhD Shi,D. Levitan,A. WIREs Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery. October 2021 The future of small business: An interview with Rhett Buttle David J. Faulds, PhD P.S. Raju, PhD Business Horizons. October 2021 Impact of religiosity on LGBTQ inclusiveness and corporate value Benjamin P. Foster, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Dianna C. Preece, DBA Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy. October 2021 Business intelligence & big data for innovative and sustainable development of organizations Jozef M. Zurada, PhD Olszak, C. Cetindamar, D. Information Systems Management. September 2021 The long-run effects of minimum lot size zoning on housing redevelopment Weihua Zhao, PhD Housing Economics. September 2021 G.I. Jane goes to college? Female educational attainment, earnings, and the Servicemen’s Readjustment Act of 1944 Conor Lennon, PhD The Journal of Economic History. September 2021 Understanding governance mechanisms in small and medium family firms in Latin America Isabel Botero, PhD Arzaga, F. Bullock, K. Multidisciplinary Business Review. August 2021 Family emotional support in the transformation of women entrepreneurs Isabel Botero, PhD Kaciak, E. Kopaničová, J. Journal of Business Research. August 2021 Crowdfunding – It’s Here to Stay Dianna C. Preece, DBA Baker, K. Filbeck, G. The European Financial Review. August 2021 The family’s effect on knowledge sharing in family firms Isabel Botero, PhD Barroso Martínez, A. Sanguino Galván, R. Binhote, J. Journal of Knowledge Management. August 2021 How do online degrees affect labor market prospects? Evidence from a correspondence audit study Conor Lennon, PhD ILR Review. August 2021 The taxation of nonfungible token transactions Lisa M. Blum, LLM Benjamin P. Foster, PhD The CPA Journal. July 2021 Long-run growth of ambulatory surgery centers 1990–2015 and Medicare payment policy Elizabeth Munnich, PhD M. Richards Health Services Research. July 2021 Text guide: Improving the quality of long text classification by a text selection method based on feature importance Jozef M. Zurada, PhD Fiok, K. Karwowski, W. Gutierrez-Franco, E. Davahli, M. Wiliamowski, M. Ahram, T. Al-Juaid, A. IEEE Access. July 2021 Does the importance of environmental issues within an industry affect the relationship between lean operations and corporate financial performance? Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Benjamin P. Foster, PhD Kreos, J.R. Sustainable Production and Consumption. July 2021 The spread and use of blockchains Benjamin P. Foster, PhD The CPA Journal. July 2021 Chances elections, social distancing restrictions, and Kentucky’s early COVID-19 experience Joshua C. Pinkston, PhD Courtemanche, C. Garuccio, J. Le, A. Yelowitz, A. PLOS One. July 2021 Religiosity and climate change policies Per G. Fredriksson, PhD Sharma, S. Ang, J. Energy Economics . June 2021 Sunlight and culture Per G. Fredriksson, PhD Mohanty, A. Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization. June 2021 Technology spillovers and the duration of executive compensation Minjie Huang, PhD Kubick, T. R. Tseng, K. Journal of Banking & Finance. June 2021 The effects of the internal control opinion and use of audit data analytics on perceptions of audit quality, assurance, and auditor negligence Dereck Barr-Pulliam, PhD Brown-Libard, H. Sanderson, K. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory. June 2021 The external effects of bank executive pay: Liquidity creation and systemic risk Minjie Huang, PhD DeYoung, R. Journal of Financial Intermediation. June 2021 Earnings management in the short- and long-term post-regulation periods Espahbodi, H. Espahbodi, R. Kose, J. Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting. June 2021 Game of thrones, game of class struggle, or other games? Revisiting the Dobb–Sweezy debate Thomas E. Lambert, PhD World Review of Political Economy. June 2021 Hurricane Maria and La Crisis Boricua on health-care supply in Puerto Rico Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD AEA Paper and Proceedings. May 2021 Resource efficiency in manufacturing: A case for board diversity Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Benjamin P. Foster, PhD Dianna C. Preece, DBA Kroes,J. Cost Management. May 2021 Talk is cheap?! The value of a ban on product simulations and renderings on a crowdfunding platform Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Patel, P. Wolfe, M. Applied Economics. May 2021 Lady luck: Anthropomorphized luck creates perceptions of risk-sharing and drives pursuit of risky alternatives Katina Kulow, PhD Kramer, T. Bentely, K. Journal of the Association for Consumer Research. May 2021 The operational impacts of Chief Supply Chain Officers in manufacturing firms Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Kroes, J. Gattiker, T. Castel, M. Production & Planning Control. May 2021 Asymmetric timing of gain and recognition and insider trading profitability Tang, M. Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance. May 2021 (Not) Near and Dear: COVID-19 concerns increase consumer preference for products that are not “near me” Mina Kwon, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Michael J. Barone, PhD Journal of the Association for Consumer Research. May 2021 Blue laws’ and other cases of bootleggers/Baptist influence in beer regulation (Chapter) Stephan F. Gohmann, PhD Smith, A. Regulation and Economic Opportunity: Blueprints for Reform. April 2021 With linear pricing, can profit‐maximizing monopoly output be socially efficient? Yong Chao, PhD Babu Nahata, PhD Bulletin of Economic Research. April 2021 Noteworthy diversity efforts and financial performance: Evidence from DiversityInc’s top 50 Benjamin P. Foster, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Dianna C. Preece, DBA Kroes, J.R. Advances in Accounting. April 2021 New institutional investors in the IPO secondary market: Sentiment or fundamentals? Xudong Fu, PhD Tian (Lori) Tang, PhD Hamilton, J. Lian, Q. The Journal of Financial Research. April 2021 Customer perceptions about family firms and their effects on customer behaviors Isabel Botero, PhD Litchfield-Moore, S. R. Journal of Small Business Strategy. April 2021 Sensegiving in organizations via the use of business analytics Ghiyoung Im, PhD Namvar, M. Interzari, A. Information Technology & People. April 2021 What do economic education scholars study? Insights from machine learning Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD Yetter, E. Holder, K. The Journal of Economic Education. April 2021 Do ridesharing services increase alcohol consumption? Conor Lennon, PhD Teltser, K. Burgdorf, J. Journal of Health Economics. March 2021 Are the costs of employer-sponsored health insurance passed on to workers at the individual level? Conor Lennon, PhD Economics & Human Biology. March 2021 Short-Termist CEO Compensation in Speculative Markets: A Controlled Experiment Minjie Huang, PhD Yen-Cheng Chang Yu-Siang Su Kevin Tseng Contemporary Accounting Research. March 2021 An examination of the influence of mutual CFO/audit firm tenure on audit quality Russell Williamson, CPA Payne, J. Journal of Accounting and Public Policy. February 2021 Imprinting perspective on the sustainability of commitments to competing institutional logics of social enterprises James O. Fiet, PhD Bae, T. Sustainability. February 2021 Venture-level outcomes of juggling and struggling Robert P. Garrett, Jr., PhD Zettel, L. Journal of Business Venturing Insights. February 2021 The operational impacts of chief supply chain officers in manufacturing firms Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Kroes, J. R. Gattiker, T. F. Castel, M. J. Production Planning & Control. February 2021 The work-from-home trend: An interview with Brian Kropp David J. Faulds, PhD P.S. Raju, PhD Business Horizons. January 2021 The associations of medical marijuana policies with opioid‐related health care utilization Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD Jayawardhana, J. Health Services Research. January 2021 Religiosity, shareholder lawsuits, and employee whistleblowing Julie (Ying) Huang, PhD John, K. Journal of Accounting Ethics and Public Policy. January 2021 Reducing readmissions by addressing the social determinants of health Elizabeth Munnich, PhD Evans, W.N. Kroeger, S. Ortuzar, G. Wagner, K.L. American Journal of Health Economics. January 2021 Schumpeter, Sweezy, the Financial System, and Innovation: Small versus Big Business Thomas E. Lambert, PhD Velardo, T. International Review of Entrepreneurship. December 2020 Neutrality of third-degree price discrimination Yong Chao, PhD Babu Nahata, PhD International Review of Economics Education. December 2020 Does an early start help or hurt? Statehood, institutions and modern climate change policies Per G. Fredriksson, PhD Ang, J. Energy Economics. December 2020 Logic is (somewhat) overrated: Image-based versus concept-based rhetoric in crowdfunding narratives Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Patel, P. Wolfe, M. T. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice. December 2020 Together we stand: The solidarity effect of personized sellers on essential workers Katina Kulow, PhD Bentley, K. Rajagopal, P. Journal of the Association for Consumer Research. December 2020 External Knowledge for Knowledge Creation and Innovation Manju Ahuja, PhD Sandeep Goyal, PhD A. Kankanhalli Information and Management. December 2020 IT-supported Collaboration Manju Ahuja, PhD A.R. Dennis S. Sarker MIS Quarterly (FT50 Journal). December 2020 Worker Stress in the Age of Mobility: The Combined Effects of Interruption Overload and Worker Control, Manju Ahuja, PhD S. Tams V. Grover J. Thatcher Journal of Strategic Information Systems. December 2020 Paul Baran’s economic surplus concept, the Baran Ratio, and the decline of feudalism Thomas E. Lambert, PhD Monthly Review. December 2020 Legal origins and government COVID-19 control measures Per G. Fredriksson, PhD Gupta, S. Applied Economics Letters. November 2020 LGBTQ Workplace Inclusion before and after Obergefell V. Hodges: Association with Tobin’s Q and ROA Benjamin P. Foster, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Dianna C. Preece, DBA Journal of Accounting Ethics and Public Policy. November 2020 The algorithms know me and I know them: Using student journals to uncover algorithmic literacy awareness Abigail Koenig, PhD Computers and Composition. November 2020 Economic-state variation in uncertainty-yield dynamics Christopher T. Stivers, PhD Dubofsky, D. Connolly, R. The Review of Asset Pricing Studies. November 2020 Does seeing bad make you do good? How witnessing retail transgressions influence responses to cause marketing offers Katina Kulow, PhD Mina Kwon, PhD Michael J. Barone, PhD Journal of Business Research. November 2020 Is being one of the best companies for salespeople also doing the best for shareholders? Benjamin P. Foster, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Cost Management. November 2020 It’s alive: Increasing protective action against the coronavirus through anthropomorphism and construal Katina Kulow, PhD Wan, J. Cowan, K. Journal of the Association for Consumer Research. November 2020 Time spent exercising and obesity: An application of Lewbel’s instrumental variables method Joshua C. Pinkston, PhD Courtemanche, C. Stewart, J. Economics & Human Biology. October 2020 Positive emotions, instrumental resources, and organizational network evolution: Theorizing via simulation research Ryan W. Quinn, PhD Baker, W. E. Social Networks. October 2020 Coups, regime transitions, and institutional consequences Daniel Bennett, PhD Stephan F. Gohmann, PhD Bjørnskov, C. Journal of Comparative Economics. October 2020 Embedding evaluation into a military veteran entrepreneurial training program Cumberland, D. Peake, W. Kerrick, S. New Directions for Adult & Continuing Education. September 2020 Individualism, pro-market institutions, and national innovation Daniel Bennett, PhD Nikolaev, B. Small Business Economics. September 2020 Monopoly capital and management: Too many bosses and too much pay? Thomas E. Lambert, PhD Journal of Economic Issues. September 2020 Is that an opportunity? Global versus local processing of technological and socioeconomic constraints Manju Ahuja, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Mattingly, E.S. Kushev, T.N. Journal of Small Business Management. August 2020 Has economic growth made Americans better off despite rising income inequality? Evidence from subjective well-being data Daniel Bennett, PhD Nikolaev, B. Journal of Private Enterprise. August 2020 Treatment flows after outsourcing public insurance provision: Evidence from Florida Medicaid Elizabeth Munnich, PhD Richards, M. R. Health Economics. August 2020 Ultra high‐dimensional semiparametric longitudinal data analysis Brittany Green, PhD Lian, H. Yu, Y. Zu, T. Biometrics. August 2020 Price anchors and short‐term reversals Christopher T. Stivers, PhD Z. Zhu L. Sun Financial Management. July 2020 An interview on artificial intelligence with Mark Mills David J. Faulds, PhD P.S. Raju, PhD Business Horizons. July 2020 Bold stock recommendations: Informative or worthless? D. Palmon B. Sarath Contemporary Accounting Research. June 2020 Impact of relatedness, uncertainty and slack on corporate entrepreneurship decisions Robert P. Garrett, Jr., PhD S. Mattingly J. Hornsby A. Aghaey Management Decisions. June 2020 Short-term versus long-term effects of the Louisville Enterprise Zone incentives: A response to Sumei Zhang Thomas E. Lambert, PhD Economic Development Quarterly. June 2020 Optimal nonlinear pricing by a dominant firm under competition Yong Chao, PhD G. Tan A.C.L. Wong American Economic Journal: Microeconomics (Forthcoming). May 2020 Does the source of external knowledge matter? Examining the role of customer co-creation and partner sourcing in knowledge creation and innovation Sandeep Goyal, PhD Manju Ahuja, PhD A. Kankanhalli Information & Management. May 2020 Individualism and the adoption of clean energy technology Per G. Fredriksson, PhD J.B. Ang S. Sharma Resource and Energy Economics. May 2020 Strong social distancing measures in the United States reduced the COVID-19 growth rate Joshua C. Pinkston, PhD C. Courtemanche J. Garuccio A. Le A. Yelowitz Health Affairs. May 2020 Goal conflict encourages work and discourages leisure Sarah Memmi, PhD J. Etkin Journal of Consumer Research. April 2020 Oil prices and urban housing demand Weihua Zhao, PhD W. Larson Real Estate Economics. April 2020 Self-driving cars and the city: Effects on sprawl, energy consumption, and housing affordability Weihua Zhao, PhD Larson, W. Regional Science and Urban Economics. March 2020 The upside down: Presenting a price in a low location influences how consumers evaluate it Michael J. Barone, PhD K.S. Coulter X. Li Journal of Retailing. March 2020 Culture and the consumer journey Aaron Barnes, PhD S. Shavitt Journal of Retailing. March 2020 A world of mistrust: Fake news, mistrust mind-sets, and product evaluations Mina Kwon, PhD Michael J. Barone, PhD Journal of the Association for Consumer Research. March 2020 Worker stress in the age of mobile technology: The combined effects of perceived interruption overload and worker control Manju Ahuja, PhD S. Tams J. Thatcher V. Grover The Journal of Strategic Information Systems Volume 29, Issue 1, March 2020, 101595. March 2020 Crop yield and democracy Per G. Fredriksson, PhD J.B. Angs S.K. Gupta Land Economics. March 2020 How did you do that? Exploring the motivation to learn from others’ exceptional success Ryan W. Quinn, PhD C. Myers S. Kopelman S.A. Simmons Academy of Management Discoveries. February 2020 Insider trading and shareholder investment horizons Xudong Fu, PhD Tian (Lori) Tang, PhD L. Kong Y. Xinyan Journal of Corporate Finance. February 2020 How do online degrees affect labor market prospects? Evidence from a correspondence audit study Conor Lennon, PhD ILR Review. February 2020 Shareholder investment horizons and bank debt financing Xudong Fu, PhD Tian (Lori) Tang, PhD B. Cline Journal of Banking & Finance. January 2020 Corporate Finance: Foundations of Value Optimization and Survival (First Edition) Jay T. Brandi, PhD Cognella Academic Publishing. January 2020 Emotions and affective polarization: How enthusiasm and anxiety about presidential candidates affect interparty attitudes Abigail Koenig, PhD B. McLaughlin D. Holland B.A. Thompson American Politics Research. December 2019 Big data in capturing business values Jozef M. Zurada, PhD C. M. Olszak Information Systems Management. November 2019 Why nonverbal immediacy matters: A motivation explanation Zachary W. Goldman, PhD A. B. Frymier C. J. Claus Communication Quarterly. September 2019 Gossard girls are good girls: Labor activism at a 1949 garment factory strike Kristen Lucas, PhD C. S. Woods D. Gold (Ed.) J. Enoch (Ed.) Women at work: Rhetorics of gender and labor. September 2019 The effect of continuous auditing and role duality on the incidence and likelihood of reporting management opportunism Dereck Barr-Pulliam, PhD Management Accounting Research. September 2019 Management earnings forecasts and accounting conservatism B. Jaggi J. Ronen Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance. August 2019 A review of operations management literature: a data-driven approach. Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Lynn Boyd, PhD Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Kyle Hoskins International Journal of Production Research. August 2019 An Analysis of Research Methods in IJPR since Inception Lynn Boyd, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Qinghua Pang International Journal of Production Research. August 2019 Short leash or long leash? Parenting style, initial strategic clarity, and the development of venture learning proficiency Robert P. Garrett, Jr., PhD J. Covin D. Kuratko D. A. Shepherd Journal of Business Venturing. August 2019 I’ll do it myself: self-leadership, proactivity, and socialization Zachary W. Goldman, PhD G. A. Cranmer J.D. Houghton Leadership & Organization Development Journal. August 2019 Pay-what-you-want pricing under competition: Breaking the Bertrand Trap Yong Chao, PhD Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD Babu Nahata, PhD Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Economics. July 2019 Time, Space and Entrepreneurship James O. Fiet, PhD Routledge. July 2019 A theory of work-family conflict episode processing Carl Maertz, PhD S.L. Boyar P.W. Maloney Journal of Vocational Behavior. July 2019 Crisis management: An interview with Melissa Agnes David J. Faulds, PhD P.S. Raju, PhD Business Horizions. July 2019 Asymmetry in capacity and the adoption of all-units discounts Yong Chao, PhD G. Tan A. Wong International Journal of Industrial Organization. July 2019 Managerial Economics: Applications, Strategy, and Tactics, 14th edition R. Charles Moyer, PhD James R McGuiga Frederick H Harris Cengage Publishing. July 2019 Dynamic capital asset accumulation and value of intangible assets: An operations management perspective Andrew S. Manikas, PhD P. C. Patel P. Oghazi Journal of Business Research. June 2019 Internal corporate venture planning autonomy, strategic evolution, and venture performance Robert P. Garrett, Jr., PhD J.G. Covin D.F. Kuratko M. Bolinger Small Business Economics. June 2019 Batch and data streaming classification models for detecting adverse events and understanding the influencing factors Jozef M. Zurada, PhD Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD D. Shi W. Karwowski E. Cakit Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence. June 2019 An analysis of Chapter 11 and Chapter 7 bankruptcy filings and auditors’ going concern opinions Benjamin P. Foster, PhD T. Shastri D. Barney Journal of Business and Economic Perspectives. June 2019 Review of Textual curation: Authorship, agency, and technology in Wikipedia and Chambers’s Cyclopædia by K. Kennedy Abigail Koenig, PhD Technical Communication Quarterly. May 2019 The agricultural roots of Chinese innovation performance Per G. Fredriksson, PhD J. Zhu J.B. Ang European Economic Review. May 2019 Minimum wages, morality, and efficiency: A choice experiment Conor Lennon, PhD Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD Stephan F. Gohmann, PhD K. Teltser AEA Papers and Proceedings. May 2019 Exploring family business brands: Understanding predictors and effects Isabel Botero, PhD A. Barroso Martínez R. Sanguino Galván O. R. González-López M. Buenadicha Mateos Journal of Family Business Strategy. March 2019 What explains the rising share of US men in registered nursing? Elizabeth Munnich, PhD A. Wozniak ILR Review. March 2019 The general equilibrium effects of high-occupancy vehicle lanes on congestion, sprawl, energy use, and carbon emissions Weihua Zhao, PhD Journal of Regional Science. March 2019 Comparing the NEO-FFI and Saucier’s mini-markers as measures of the Big Five Todd A. Mooradian, PhD J. B. Nezlek Personality and Individual Differences. February 2019 A configurational approach to family firm innovation Manju Ahuja, PhD V. Kosmidou Family Business Review. February 2019 The new information environment: An interview with Emanuel Rosen David J. Faulds, PhD P.S. Raju, PhD Business Horizons. February 2019 The politics of environmental enforcement: The case of the Resource and Conservation Recovery Act Per G. Fredriksson, PhD L. Wang Empirical Economics. February 2019 Why do institutions like corporate social responsibility investments? Evidence from horizon heterogeneity Xudong Fu, PhD Tian (Lori) Tang, PhD X. Yan Journal of Empirical Finance. February 2019 Performance improvement: When do employees learn from others’ success stories? Ryan W. Quinn, PhD D.M. Cumberland S.A. Kerrick Journal of Organizational Effectiveness: People and Performance. February 2019 Never, never together again: How post purchase affect drives consumer outcomes within the context of online consumer support communities Ghiyoung Im, PhD V. Storey R. Baskerville Journal of the Association for Information Systems. February 2019 UofL Today: Mark Hebert discusses new online MBA and certificate programs Kristen Lucas, PhD UofL Today. January 2019 Governance and resource sharing ambidexterity for generating relationship benefits in supply chain collaborations Ghiyoung Im, PhD L. Schurer Decision Sciences. January 2019 A Data-Mining Approach to Identification of Risk Factors in Safety Management Systems Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD D. Shi J. Zurada A. Manikas A Data-Mining Approach to Identification of Risk Factors in Safety Management Systems. January 2019 How do situational factors influence ethical decision-making in entrepreneurship? The role of self-construal, temporal-construal, and moral identity Kristen Lucas, PhD S. Qian Journal of Ethics and Entrepreneurship. January 2019 Capital profitability and economic growth Nan-Ting Chou, PhD Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD John Vahaly, PhD Journal of Economics and Development Studies. January 2019 An interview with Chuck Martin on the Internet of Things David J. Faulds, PhD P.S. Raju, PhD Business Horizons. January 2019 A panel discussion on hedge funds Dianna C. Preece, DBA H.K. Baker G. Filbeck H.M. Holzhauer Alternative Investment Analyst Review. January 2019 On-the-job and off-the-job embeddedness differentially influence relationships between informal job search and turnover Carl Maertz, PhD C. M. Porter R.A. Posthuma C.P. Joplin, Jr. J. Rigby M. Gordon K. Graves Journal of Applied Psychology. December 2018 Cross‐cultural consumer psychology Aaron Barnes, PhD S. Shavitt Consumer Psychology Review. December 2018 Persistence decisions: It’s not just about the money Manju Ahuja, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD D. Ma E. S. Mattingly T. N. Kushev Journal of Entrepreneurship. December 2018 Employer-sponsored health insurance and the gender wage gap Conor Lennon, PhD Southern Economic Journal. December 2018 Performance effects of technological dynamism: private vs. state enterprises in Russia Richard Germain, PhD X. Li K. Krotov Journal of East-West Business. December 2018 Leveraging supply chain orientation for global supplier responsiveness: The impact of institutional distance Richard Germain, PhD B. Davis-Sramek A. Omar The International Journal of Logistics Management. December 2018 Market foreclosure, output and welfare under second-degree price discrimination Yong Chao, PhD Babu Nahata, PhD Economics Bulletin. December 2018 Impact of mandated exclusive territories in the US brewing industry: Evidence from scanner level data International Journal of Industrial Organization. December 2018 The persistence of historical influences on current economic freedom Stephan F. Gohmann, PhD Economic freedom and prosperity: The origins and maintenance of liberalization. November 2018 Corporate entrepreneurship as a survival routine Robert P. Garrett, Jr., PhD T. Welcher The challenges of corporate entrepreneurship in the disruptive age. November 2018 Social-spatial effects in pricing: When and how vertical orientations shape processing of price comparisons Michael J. Barone, PhD X. Li K.P. Winterich K.B. Lyle Customer Needs and Solutions. November 2018 Distant but fair: Intra-team justice climate and performance in dispersed teams Manju Ahuja, PhD M. Magni L. M. Maruping Journal of Management Information Systems. October 2018 Development and validation of the workplace dignity scale Kristen Lucas, PhD B. Thomas Group & Organization Management. October 2018 From the plan to the market and back—the organizational transformation of the Russian defense industry Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD L. Kosals B. Kemelgor Europe-Asia Studies. October 2018 Legal origins and environmental policies: evidence from OECD and developing countries Per G. Fredriksson, PhD J.R. Wollscheid Letters in Spatial and Resource Sciences. October 2018 Corruption and environmental regulatory policy in the United States: Does trust matter? Per G. Fredriksson, PhD O.C. Dincer Resource and Energy Economics. October 2018 The impact of entrepreneurial orientation, technological capability, and consumer attitude on firm performance: A multi-theory perspective L. Subhash K. Poudel Journal of Small Business Management. October 2018 Using the theory of constraints’ processes of ongoing improvement to address the provider appointment scheduling system design problem Lynn Boyd, PhD J.F. Cox III Health Systems. October 2018 Monopoly capital and innovation: an exploratory assessment of R&D effectiveness Thomas E. Lambert, PhD International Review of Applied Economics. October 2018 How do situational factors influence ethical decision‐making in entrepreneurship? The role of self‐construal, temporal‐construal, and moral identity Kristen Lucas, PhD S. Qian Journal of Ethics & Entrepreneurship. September 2018 A spreadsheet approach for incorporating actual motor carrier freight rates and external environmental costs in a newsvendor model Andrew S. Manikas, PhD M. Godfrey International Journal of Management and Marketing Research. September 2018 Information systems research themes: A seventeen-year data-driven temporal analysis Sandeep Goyal, PhD Manju Ahuja, PhD Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Communications of the Association for Information Systems. September 2018 The Neolithic Revolution and Contemporary Sex Ratios Per G. Fredriksson, PhD S. K. Gupta Economic Letters. September 2018 Does innovation chase profits, or do profits chase innovation? Thomas E. Lambert, PhD Journal of Applied Management and Investments. September 2018 Family business employer brand: Understanding applicants’ perceptions and their job pursuit intentions with samples from the US and Belgium Isabel Botero, PhD D. Arijs A. Michiels V. Molly Journal of Family Business Strategy. September 2018 Disconnect: Kentucky and the political ideology of its public universities. Benjamin P. Foster, PhD Academic Questions. September 2018 The value of operational response in varied industries during the Great Recession Andrew S. Manikas, PhD P. Patel IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management. August 2018 Unify and present: Using Monroe’s Motivated Sequence to teach team presentation skills Kristen Lucas, PhD Communication Teacher. August 2018 Why do students misbehave? An initial examination of antecedents to student misbehavior. Zachary W. Goldman, PhD Z. D. Johnson C. Claus Communication Quarterly. August 2018 Theory of constraints: Review and bibliometric analysis Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD L. Ikeziri F. B. De Souza P.C. Fiorini Journal of Production Research. August 2018 Misalignment between societal well-being and business profit maximization: The case of New York taxis drivers’ incentive system Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Kroes, J. R. Gattiker, T. F. Socio-Economic Planning Sciences. August 2018 Kristen Lucas contributes her expertise on gender diversity improvements on local boards Kristen Lucas, PhD B. Ladwig Insider Louisville. August 2018 On estimating the determinants of yearling thoroughbred prices International Journal of Sport Management and Marketing. August 2018 Sunlight, disease, and institutions Per G. Fredriksson, PhD J. Ang A. Luqman bin Nurhakim E. H. Tay Kyklos. July 2018 Differences are Different: Racial and Gender Diversity in Virtual Team Collaboration Manju Ahuja, PhD Robert, Lionel P Jr Dennis, Alan R Information Systems Research, 29, 3, pp. 525-545. (FT50 Journal). July 2018 $12 billion aid combating tariff losses easing farmers’ concerns Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD WAVE3 News. July 2018 The Impact of Top Management Team Characteristics on the Choice of Earnings Management Strategies: Evidence from Chin Baolei Qi Gaoliang Tian Jerry Lin Accounting Horizons, Vol. 32, No. 1, 2018. July 2018 Differences are different: Examining the effects of communication media on the impacts of racial and gender diversity in decision-making teams Manju Ahuja, PhD L. Robert Jr. A. Dennis Information Systems Research. July 2018 A receiver’s approach to family business brands: Exploring individual associations with the term “family firm” Isabel Botero, PhD C. Binz Astrachan A. Calabro Journal of Family Business Management. July 2018 Contemporary Financial Management, 14th edition R. Charles Moyer, PhD James R McGuigan Ramesh Rao Ramesh P Rao Cengage Publishing. July 2018 Corporate entrepreneurship as a survival routine Robert P. Garrett, Jr., PhD D. Kuratko S. Hoskinson Advances in the Study of Entrepreneurship, Innovation & Economic Growth: Vol. 28. June 2018 Culture, legal heritage and the regulation of labor Per G. Fredriksson, PhD J. Ang Journal of Comparative Economics. June 2018 Macroeconomic uncertainty and the distant forward-rate slope Christopher T. Stivers, PhD Journal of Empirical Finance. June 2018 Responding to mental health issues in the college classroom Zachary W. Goldman, PhD Communication Education. May 2018 Analysis of patient visits and collections after opening a satellite pediatric emergency department Benjamin P. Foster, PhD K. Nichols K. Caperell K. Cross S. Duncan G. Liu H. Pritchard G. Southard B. Shinaberry B. Sutton I. Kim Pediatric Emergency Care. May 2018 Text mining using latent semantic analysis: An illustration through examination of 30 years of research at JIS Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Sandeep Goyal, PhD Journal of Information Systems. May 2018 On Estimating the Determinants of Yearling Thoroughbred Prices “On Estimating the Determinants of Yearling Thoroughbred Prices.” Advances in Sport Management in the Global Marketplace: Theory and Practice, special issue of International Journal of Sport Management and Marketing. April 2018 Effects of educational messaging on urgent and emergent care seeking behaviors Elizabeth Munnich, PhD J. Cambon T. Cordier A. Renda B. Kapur S. Hoxhaj M. Williams American Health & Drug Benefits. April 2018 “We are a family firm”: An exploration of the motives for communicating the family business brand Isabel Botero, PhD C. Binz Astrachan Journal of Family Business Management. April 2018 Analysis of patient visits and collections after opening a satellite pediatric emergency department Benjamin P. Foster, PhD K. Nichols K. Camperell K. Cross D. Scott G. Liu H. Pritchard G. Southard B. Shinabery B. Sutton I.K. Kim Pediatric Emergency Care. April 2018 Text Mining Using Latent Semantic Analysis: An Illustration through Semi-Automatic Clustering analysis of 30 Years of Research at JIS Sandeep Goyal, PhD J. Guan A. Levitan Text Mining Using Latent Semantic Analysis: An Illustration through Semi-Automatic Clustering analysis of 30 Years of Research at JIS. April 2018 Why discrete price fragments U.S. stock exchanges and disperses their fee structures Yong Chao, PhD C. Yao M. Ye The Review of Financial Studies. April 2018 The relationship between lean manufacturing, environmental damage, and firm performance Andrew S. Manikas, PhD J. Kroes Letters in Spatial and Resource Sciences. April 2018 Change is an emotional state of mind: Behavioral responses to online petitions Abigail Koenig, PhD B. McLaughlin New Media & Society. April 2018 Book Review: Communicating Mobility and Technology: A Material Rhetoric for Persuasive Transportation Abigail Koenig, PhD Journal of Business and Technical Communication. March 2018 Branding the family firm: A review, integrative framework proposal, and research agenda Isabel Botero, PhD C. Binz Astrachan J. H. Astrachan R. Prügl Journal of Family Business Strategy. March 2018 Addressing Externalities: An Externality Factor Tax-Subsidy Proposal Thomas E. Lambert, PhD Jay Beeks European Journal of Sustainable Development Research. March 2018 Breaking bad in Bourbon Country: Does alcohol prohibition encourage methamphetamine production? Joshua C. Pinkston, PhD Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD Stephan F. Gohmann, PhD Southern Economic Journal. March 2018 Work-Life Conflict of Globally Distributed Software Development Personnel: An Empirical Investigation Using Border Theory Manju Ahuja, PhD S. Sarker S. Sarker Information Systems Research (FT50 Journal). February 2018 All-Units Discounts as a Partial Foreclosure Device Yong Chao, PhD G. Tan A. Chi L. Wong RAND Journal of Economics. February 2018 State History, Legal Adaptability and Financial Development Per G. Fredriksson, PhD James B. Ang Journal of Banking & Finance. February 2018 Operational flexibility in hospitals: Scale development and validation Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD H. Chahal S. Lonial International Journal of Production Research. February 2018 Throughput/inventory dollar-days: TOC-based measures for supply chain collaboration Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD S. Andersen International Journal of Production Research. February 2018 A failure of courageous leadership: Sex, embarrassment, and (not) speaking up in the Penn State sexual abuse scandal Kristen Lucas, PhD J. K. Beggan S. Allison Leadership and sexuality: Power, principles and processes. February 2018 The interdependence of planning and learning among internal corporate ventures. Entrepreneurship Theory & Practice Robert P. Garrett, Jr., PhD Covin, J.G. Gupta, J.P. Kuratko, D.F. Shepherd, D.A. Entrepreneurship Theory & Practice. January 2018 Corporate Finance: Foundations of Value Optimization and Survival Jay T. Brandi, PhD Cognella Publishing. January 2018 Communicating competently in graduate school: a conditional process analysis using self-regulation Zachary W. Goldman, PhD Western Journal of Communication. January 2018 A fuzzy neural approach with multiple models to time-dependent short term power load forecasting based on weather Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Jozef M. Zurada, PhD Shi, D. Lopez-Vargas Maria del Carmen Cabrera Loayza International Journal of Multimedia and Ubiquitous Engineering. January 2018 Going against the flow: The effects of dynamic sensorimotor experiences on consumer choice Mina Kwon, PhD R. Adaval Journal of Consumer Research. January 2018 The mobile shopping revolution: Redefining the consumer decision process P.S. Raju, PhD David J. Faulds, PhD G. W. Mangold Business Horizons. January 2018 An exploration of ‘sticky’ inventory management in the manufacturing industry Andrew S. Manikas, PhD J. Kroes Production Planning & Control. January 2018 Returns to specialization: Evidence from the outpatient surgery market Elizabeth Munnich, PhD S. Parente Journal of Health Economics. January 2018 US worker co-operatives and their spans of management, decision making, and governance: An exploratory analysis Thomas E. Lambert, PhD Journal of Co-operative Organizations and Management. December 2017 Research opportunities in information technology funding and system justification K. Peffers European Journal of Information Systems. December 2017 Power and the appeal of the deal: How consumers value the control provided by Pay What You Want Pricing Michael J. Barone, PhD T. Bae S. Qian J. D’Mello Marketing Letters. December 2017 Searching outside the box in creative problem solving: The role of creative thinking ability and domain knowledge Carl Maertz, PhD T. Montag-Smit Journal of Business Research. December 2017 Dignity, counterproductive work behavior, and employee engagement Kristen Lucas, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD S. Mattingly C. Crider Academy of Management Proceedings. November 2017 Client workplace environment and corporate audits Minjie Huang, PhD A.Masli F. Meschke J. Guthrie Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory. November 2017 Going along or going independent? A dynamic analysis of nonprofit franchising J. Chen B.E. Journal of Economic Analysis and Policy. November 2017 Impact of religiosity on auditors’ behavior and audit fees B. Jaggi Journal of Accounting, Ethics, and Public Policy. September 2017 A risk management model for research on expatriates in hostile work environments Carl Maertz, PhD R.A. Posthuma J. Ramsey F. Flores R. Ahmed International Journal of Human Resource Management. September 2017 The 2017 solar eclipse and the solar power industry Audrey D. Kline, PhD Business Quest. August 2017 Impact of Market Orientation on Business Performance through value creation, (2nd revision) Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD Kaur Lonial Journal of Strategic Marketing. August 2017 Shooting at the ball park: Here we go again Audrey D. Kline, PhD Buisness Quest. July 2017 An analysis of research methods in IJPR since inception Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Andrew Manikas Lynn Boyd Qinghua Pang An analysis of research methods in IJPR since inception. July 2017 The effect of spicy gustatory sensations on variety-seeking Katina Kulow, PhD M. Sayantani T. Kramer Psychology and Marketing. July 2017 Under-or-Overreaction: Market Responses to Announcements of Earnings Surprises A. M. Alwathnani H. Al-Zoubi International Review of Financial Analysis. July 2017 U.S. Supreme Court kicks patent trolls to the curb Audrey D. Kline, PhD Business Quest. June 2017 Is it safe to bring myself to work? Understanding LGBTQ experiences of workplace dignity Kristen Lucas, PhD S. J. Baker Canadian Journal of Administrative Sciences. June 2017 State fairs and the importance of product differentiation Audrey D. Kline, PhD Business Quest. June 2017 Parenting style and the development of internal corporate venture learning proficiency Robert P. Garrett, Jr., PhD J. G. Covin D. Kuratko D. A. Shepherd Academy of Management Best Paper Proceedings. June 2017 Does diversity improve profits and shareholder returns? Evidence from top rated companies for diversity by DiversityInc Benjamin P. Foster, PhD Dianna C. Preece, DBA G. Filbeck X. Zhao Advances in Accounting. June 2017 Memories from the Dykeaspora Sophonie Bazile Women & Performance: a journal of feminist theory. May 2017 How Children with Mental Disabilities Affect Household Investment Decisions Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD Bogan, Vicki L. How Children with Mental Disabilities Affect Household Investment Decisions. May 2017 How Children with Mental Disabilities Affect Household Investment Decisions Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD Vicki L. Bogan American Economic Review. May 2017 Gamification in the workplace: The central role of the aesthetic experience Manju Ahuja, PhD A. Suh C. Cheung C. Wagner Journal of Management Information Systems. April 2017 All-units discounts: Leverage and partial foreclosure in single-product markets Yong Chao, PhD G. Tan Canadian Competition Law Review. April 2017 Amazon Prime Day: Is world domination far behind? Audrey D. Kline, PhD Business Quest. April 2017 The Impact of Growth and Innovation Clusters on Unemployment in US Metro Regions Gary Mattson Kyle Dorriere Regional Science Policy and Practice. April 2017 Emotions and intentions are understood from biological motion across remote cultures Sarah Memmi, PhD Parkinson, C. Walker, T. T. Wheatley, T. Emotion. April 2017 Friend or PHO? On the marginal valuation of reducing the content of trans fat in processed foods Advances in Management & Applied Economics. March 2017 The International Journal of Production Research at 55: a content-driven review and analysis Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Lynn Boyd, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD The International Journal of Production Research at 55: a content-driven review and analysis. March 2017 The influence of positive affect on consideration set formation in memory-based choice Michael J. Barone, PhD S. Fedorikhin D. Hansen Marketing Letters. March 2017 Does Diversity Improve Profits and Shareholder Returns? Evidence from Top Rated Companies for Diversity by Diversity Inc. Dianna C. Preece, DBA Advances in Accounting. February 2017 Engaging and misbehaving: How dignity affects employee work behaviors Kristen Lucas, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD E. S. Mattingly C. J. Crider Organization Studies. January 2017 Discrete pricing and market fragmentation: A tale of two-sided markets Yong Chao, PhD C. Yao M. Ye American Economic Review. January 2017 Education, identity, and community: lessons from Jewish emancipation J.P.Carvalho M. Koyama Public Choice. January 2017 The unitary elasticity property in a monocentric city with negative exponential population density Weihua Zhao, PhD Regional Science and Urban Economics. January 2017 The Number of Professionally Certified Accounting Experts on Audit Committees and Confidence in Earnings: A Study of Retail Investors’ Perceptions David Dubofsky Lyle Sussman Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy. December 2016 Communicating entrepreneurial passion: Personal passion vs. perceived passion in venture pitches Kristen Lucas, PhD IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication. December 2016 Do efficiency and productivity pay off for capital and labor? A note using data envelopment analysis Thomas E. Lambert, PhD World Review of Political Economy. November 2016 Dynamic Coupling Analysis of Urbanization and Water Resource Utilization Systems in China Nan-Ting Chou, PhD H. Ma L. Wang Dynamic Coupling Analysis of Urbanization and Water Resource Utilization Systems in China. November 2016 Perspiration and inspiration: Grit and innovativeness as antecedents of entrepreneurial success Todd A. Mooradian, PhD K. Matzler B. Uzelac F. A. Bauer Journal of Economic Psychology. October 2016 Telework: Urban form, energy consumption, and greenhouse gas implications Weihua Zhao, PhD W. Larson Economic Inquiry. October 2016 Understanding the Present by Examining the Past: Imprinting Effects On Supply Chain Outsourcing in a Transition Economy Richard Germain, PhD B. Davis-Sramek B. Fugate J. Miller A. Izyumov K. Krotov, Konstantin Understanding the Present by Examining the Past: Imprinting Effects On Supply Chain Outsourcing in a Transition Economy. October 2016 Understanding the Present by examining the past: Imprinting effects on supply chain outsourcing in a transition economy Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD Richard Germain, PhD Davis-Sramek, B. Fugate, B. S. Miller, J. Krotov, K. Journal of Supply Chain Management. October 2016 Text Mining Using Latent Semantic Analysis: An Illustration Through Examination of 30 Years of Research at JIS Jeff Guan Sandeep Goyal Journal of Information Systems. October 2016 Trouble brewing? Brewer and wholesaler laws restrict craft breweries Mercatus. September 2016 Why You Shouldn’t Label People ‘Low Performers Ryan W. Quinn, PhD Harvard Business Review . September 2016 The number of professionally certified accounting experts on audit committees and confidence in earnings: A study of retail investors’ perceptions Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy. September 2016 Corporate debt maturity and acquisition decisions Xudong Fu, PhD Tian (Lori) Tang, PhD Financial Management. September 2016 Teacher power and compliance-gaining Zachary W. Goldman, PhD A. Goodboy Handbooks of Communication Science Vol. 16: Communication and Learning. September 2016 Why are there so few breweries in the south? Stephan F. Gohmann, PhD Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice. September 2016 Slave escape, prices, and the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 Conor Lennon, PhD The Journal of Law and Economics. August 2016 Mitigating estimation risk in asset allocation: Diagonal models versus 1/N diversification Christopher T. Stivers, PhD L. Sun Financial Review. July 2016 Rates of return on capital across the world: are they converging? Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD Nan-Ting Chou, PhD John Vahaly, PhD Cambridge Journal of Economics. July 2016 A Measure of Throughput Orientation: Scale Development and Nomological Validation Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD Kaur Patel Decision Sciences Journal. June 2016 An episodic framework of outgroup interaction processing: Integration and re-direction for the expatriate adjustment research Carl Maertz, PhD R. Takeuchi J. Chen Psychological Bulletin. June 2016 The Use of Quasi-experimental Design in Urban and Regional Policy Research and Political Economy Thomas E. Lambert, PhD M. Bewley Handbook of Research Methods and Applications in Heterodox Economics. June 2016 Determinants of going concern opinions and audit fees for development stage enterprises Benjamin P. Foster, PhD T. Shastri Advances in Accounting. June 2016 In pursuit of good karma: When charitable appeals to do right go wrong Katina Kulow, PhD Thomas Kramer Journal of Consumer Research. May 2016 Extending the role of similarity attraction in friendship and advice networks in angel groups Manju Ahuja, PhD C. Mitteness R. Dejordy R. Sudek Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice. May 2016 Expanding boundary theory: How and when cognitive role transition episodes influence employee performance Carl Maertz, PhD B. Smit P. W. Maloney B. Montag-Smit Human Relations. May 2016 China’s Water Utilization Efficiency: An Analysis with Environmental Considerations Nan-Ting Chou, PhD with H. Ma C. Shi China’s Water Utilization Efficiency: An Analysis with Environmental Considerations. April 2016 CEO confidence and stock returns Xudong Fu, PhD Rakesh Bharati Thomas Doellman Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics. April 2016 Productive versus unproductive entrepreneurship: Industry formation and state economic growth Stephan F. Gohmann, PhD B. Hobbs M. McCrickard Journal of Entrepreneurship and Public Policy. April 2016 Introduction to streaming data analytics and applications minitrack Jozef M. Zurada, PhD M. Kantardzic Proceedings of the 49th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences (HICSS). March 2016 When does green make you greedy or go green? The influence of green color primes on consumers’ promotion preferences Michael J. Barone, PhD K. Winterich Customer Needs and Solutions. March 2016 Seafood safety and marketing: The case of the deepwater horizon tragedy American Journal of Agricultural Economics. February 2016 An expectancy theory model of initial public offerings Jay T. Brandi, PhD B. Kemelgor American Journal of Entrepreneurship. January 2016 Predicting technology integration and performance in transition economies: Insights from Russia Richard Germain, PhD B. Davis-Sramek K. Krotov International Journal of Physical Distribution and Logistics Management. January 2016 The impact of urban sprawl on journey to work times for mass transit and all other commuters in the United States: A research note Thomas E. Lambert, PhD H. Min K. Dorrierre Journal of Transportation Management. January 2016 The impact of corporate asset restructuring on target leverage Xudong Fu, PhD Tian (Lori) Tang, PhD D. Cook Journal of Empirical Finance. January 2016 Asset ownership, investor characteristics, and the endowment effect Dianna C. Preece, DBA G. Filbeck P. Stuczynski Journal of Behavioral Finance and Economics. January 2016 Value of operational changes during recession Andrew S. Manikas, PhD . January 2016 Conservative reporting and securities class action lawsuits Julie (Ying) Huang, PhD M. Etterdege W. Zhang Accounting Horizons. January 2016 Change Management and Leadership Development Have to Mesh Ryan W. Quinn, PhD Quinn, Robert E. Harvard Business Review . January 2016 Competition between open source and proprietary software: strategies for survival Journal of Management Information Systems. December 2015 The degree of distortions under second-degree price discrimination Yong Chao, PhD Babu Nahata, PhD Economics Letters. December 2015 The critical role of external validity in advancing organizational theorizing Ghiyoung Im, PhD D. Straub Communications of the Association for Information Systems. November 2015 The Evolution of the Weekend Effect in US Markets Nan-Ting Chou, PhD D. Olson C. Mossman The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance. November 2015 An innovative clustering approach to market segmentation for improved price prediction Jozef M. Zurada, PhD Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD D. Shui A. Levitan Journal of International Technology and Information Management. October 2015 Rates of return on capital across the world: Are they converging? Nan-Ting Chou, PhD John Vahaly, PhD Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD Cambridge Journal of Economics. October 2015 The effectiveness of RFID in backroom and sales floor inventory management Sandeep Goyal, PhD International Journal of Logistics Management. October 2015 Rates of return on capital across the world: are they converging? John Vahaly, PhD Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD N. Chou Cambridge Journal of Economics. October 2015 An Innovative Clustering Approach to Market Segmentation for Improved Price Prediction Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Jozef M. Zurada, PhD D. Shi Journal of International Technology and Information Management. October 2015 Tis better to give than receive? How gender, age, and residence segments vary in their choice of discount- versus donation-based promotions Michael J. Barone, PhD K. Winterich R. Janakiraman R. Bezawada Journal of Consumer Psychology. October 2015 Faculty scholarship has a profound positive association with student evaluations of teaching—except when it doesn’t Journal of Marketing Education. September 2015 International Journal of Production Economics Richard Germain, PhD B. Davis-Sramek K. Krotov Examining the Process R&D Investment-Performance Chain in Supply Chain Operations: The Effect of Centralization. September 2015 Self-esteem and transformational leadership Todd A. Mooradian, PhD K. Matzler F.A. Bauer Journal of Managerial Psychology. September 2015 Equity risk as a determinant of future term-structure volatility Christopher T. Stivers, PhD N. Bansal Journal of Financial Markets. September 2015 Family firms, employee satisfaction, and corporate performance Minjie Huang, PhD P. Li F. Meschke J. Guthrie Journal of Corporate Finance. August 2015 Changing economic factors and the rise in obesity Joshua C. Pinkston, PhD C. Courtemanche C. Ruhm G. Wehby VoxEU.org. July 2015 Who said what? Effects of cultural mindsets on perceptions of endorser-message relatedness Mina Kwon, PhD G. Saluja R. Adaval Journal of Consumer Psychology. July 2015 An expectancy theory model of initial public offerings Jay T. Brandi, PhD B. H. Kemelgor American Journal of Entrepreneurship. June 2015 Essential Corporate Finance Jay T. Brandi, PhD Great River Learning. June 2015 Understanding the relationships of integration capabilities, ecological product design, and manufacturing performance Richard Germain, PhD J. Hartmann Journal of Cleaner Production. April 2015 Private equity: A panel discussion Dianna C. Preece, DBA H. K. Baker G. Filbeck H. Holzhauer K. Small P. Ahmed Journal of Applied Finance. April 2015 A lifetime of regret and the Barbie hotdog stand Abigail Koenig, PhD The Community College Moment. April 2015 Improving bad debt recovery in the healthcare industry-an approach using neuro-fuzzy system with semi-supervised learning Sandeep Goyal, PhD Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Jozef M. Zurada, PhD D. Shi Journal of International Technology and Information. March 2015 Overcoming Geographical Obstacles: The Use of Skype in a Graduate- Level Social Media Course David J. Faulds, PhD American Journal of Business Education. March 2015 Differences in information seeking among organizational peers: perceptions of appropriateness, importance, and frequency Zachary W. Goldman, PhD Hannah Ball Hailey G. Gillen Scott A. Myers Gregory Cranmer Michael Sollitto International Journal of Business Communication. February 2015 Lift: The Fundamental State of Leadership Ryan W. Quinn, PhD Quinn, Robert E. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler. February 2015 Impact of Service Attributes on Customer Satisfaction and Loyalty in a Healthcare Context P.S. Raju, PhD Lonial, Subhash C. Raju, P.S. Leadership in Health Services. February 2015 Do investors value SEO lockup agreements? Xudong Fu, PhD Tian (Lori) Tang, PhD Brandon Cline Journal of Business Research. February 2015 RFID for fashion: advancements in research, technology, and implementation Sandeep Goyal, PhD E. Bottani, E. A. Volpi MIS Quarterly. January 2015 Journal of Developmental Entrepreneurship Richard Germain, PhD D. Cumberland W. Meek Entrepreneurial Self-Efficacy and Firm Performance in Hostile Environments: Evidence from the Franchising Context. January 2015 Developing a social media and marketing course David J. Faulds, PhD G. W. Mangold Marketing Education Review. December 2014 Estimating the implicit price of convenience Agribusiness. November 2014 Rising autism prevalence: Real or displacing other mental disorders? Evidence from demand for auxiliary healthcare workers in California Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD D. Dhaval Economic Inquiry. August 2014 Good Rich, Bad Rich: Perceptions about the Extremely Wealthy and Their Sources of Wealth David Dubofsky Lyle Sussman Hassan Swidan International Journal of Business and Social Research. August 2014 Good rich, bad rich: Perceptions about the extremely wealthy and their sources of wealth H. Swidan International Journal of Business and Social Research. August 2014 Experiential exercises with four production planning and control systems Lynn Boyd, PhD Andrew S. Manikas, PhD Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD International Journal of Production Research. July 2014 Recent trends in factor income shares: a global perspective Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD John Vahaly, PhD Journal of Economic Studies. June 2014 The stock-bond return relation, the term structure’s slope, and asset-class risk dynamics Christopher T. Stivers, PhD N. Bansal R. Connolly Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis. May 2014 Recent trends in factor income shares: a global perspective Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD John Vahaly, PhD Journal of Economic Studies. May 2014 Procedures Take Less Time at Ambulatory Surgery Centers, Keeping Costs Down and Ability to Meet Demand Up Elizabeth Munnich, PhD Stephen T. Parente Health Affairs. May 2014 The interactive effect of beliefs in malleable fate and fateful predictions on choice Katina Kulow, PhD H. Kim Thomas Kramer Journal of Consumer Research. April 2014 The relationship between entrepreneurship education and entrepreneurial intentions: a meta–analytic review James O. Fiet, PhD T. Bae S. Qian C. Maio Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice. March 2014 IT-enabled coordination for ambidextrous interorganizational relationships Ghiyoung Im, PhD A. Rai Information Systems Research. March 2014 Human resource outsourcing: Market and operating performance effects of administrative HR functions Carolyn M. Callahan, PhD M. Butler Journal of Business Research. February 2014 Suicide and organ donors: Spillover effects of mental health insurance mandates Jose Manuel Fernandez, PhD M. Lang Health Economics. February 2014 Analyzing massive data sets: An adaptive fuzzy neural approach for prediction, with a real estate illustration Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Jozef M. Zurada, PhD D. Shi Journal of Organizational Computing and Electronic Commerce. January 2014 Rent-based exploitation: Top, bottom and horizontal John Vahaly, PhD Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD Kyklos International Review of Social Sciences. January 2014 Gifted students’ perceptions of parenting styles associations with cognitive ability, sex, race, and age Carolyn M. Callahan, PhD K. Rudasill J. Adelson D. V. Houlihan Gifted Child Quarterly. December 2013 Effects of cognitive and social factors on system utilization and performance outcomes Ghiyoung Im, PhD Information & Management. November 2013 Top performing banks: the benefits to investors Dianna C. Preece, DBA G. Filbeck X. Zhao Journal of Economics and Finance. October 2013 Income shares revisited John Vahaly, PhD Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD Review of Income and Wealth. October 2013 Income shares revisited Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD John Vahaly, PhD The Review of Income and Wealth. October 2013 Corruption and Environmental Regulatory Policy in the United States: Does Trust Matter? Per G. Fredriksson, PhD Oguzhan C. Dincer Corruption and Environmental Regulatory Policy in the United States: Does Trust Matter?. October 2013 Digital innovation as a fundamental and powerful concept in the information systems curriculum Fichman, R.G. Zheng, Z.E. MIS Quarterly. September 2013 The Impact of Organizational Orientations on Medium and Small Firm Performance: A Resource‐Based Perspective Subhash Lonial Journal of Small Business Management. August 2013 The valuation and reliability implications of FIN 46 for synthetic lease liabilities Carolyn M. Callahan, PhD R. Smith A. Wheeler-Spencer Journal of Accounting and Public Policy. July 2013 Restatement disclosures and management earnings forecast Julie (Ying) Huang, PhD M. Ettredge; W. Zhang Accounting Horizions. June 2013 Could we huddle on this project? Participant learning in informal conversations Ryan W. Quinn, PhD J. S. Bunderson Journal of Management. May 2013 The influence of changes in social capital on firm-founding activities James O. Fiet, PhD P. Krieser P. Patel Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice. May 2013 Dupuit conjecture for constrained screening: Overall distortion and type-partitioning Babu Nahata, PhD S. Kokovin E. Zhelobodko Economics Letters. March 2013 The labor market effects of California’s minimum nurse staffing law. Elizabeth Munnich, PhD Health Economics. February 2013 Requirements Fulfillment: The Missing Link between Requirements Determination and User Acceptance David J. Faulds, PhD Jian (Jeff) Guan, PhD Stephan F. Gohmann, PhD Robert Michael Barker Information Systems Management. January 2013 Speaker-Audience Communication COMS 130: The Handbook J. Ovard R. Helens-Hart T.C. Russo Pearson Custom. January 2013 A USDA-certified biobased product introduction American Journal of Agricultural Economics. January 2013 Evidence on the association between financial restatements and auditor resignations Julie (Ying) Huang, PhD S. Scholz Accounting Horizons. November 2012 A weight on your shoulders makes you pull your weight Mina Kwon, PhD M. Koo S. Shavitt Advances in Consumer Research Volume 40. November 2012 Search and discovery by repeatedly successful entrepreneurs James O. Fiet, PhD W. Norton International Small Business Journal. November 2012 Tax savings from the sale of qualified small business stock Baxendale, S. J. CPA Journal . August 2012 Product market competition: The impact of observability on the demand for cost system accuracy Carolyn M. Callahan, PhD E.A. Gabriel SSRN Electronic Journal. August 2012 CMA certification enhances human capital Baxendale, S. J. Strategic Finance Journal. July 2012 A winning formula in the Bluegrass State T. Vernon Foster CEO Magazine. May 2012 Building a sustainable model of human energy in organizations: The counterbalancing forces of resource-seeking and demand-seeking Ryan W. Quinn, PhD G.M. Spreitzer C. Lam Academy of Management Annals. May 2012 Earnings restatements and differential timeliness of accounting conservatism Julie (Ying) Huang, PhD M. Ettredge W. Zhang Journal of Accounting and Economics. February 2012 Strategic Marketing Todd A. Mooradian, PhD K. Matzler L. Ring Prentice Hall. January 2012 Navy stories: Behavior versus professional control W. G. Rowe J. O'Brein M. Rouse Journal of Management Inquiry. January 2012 Market orientation in SMEs: A conceptual framework P.S. Raju, PhD S. Lonial Journal of Business Research. December 2011 An approach to meeting AACSB assurance of learning standards in an IS core course Andrew L. Wright, PhD Chandra, S. Journal of IS Education. December 2011 The evaporating cloud: a tool for resolving workplace conflict Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD Lynn Boyd, PhD F. Kuzmits International Journal of Conflict Management. December 2011 The Impact of Relational Supplier Exchange on Financial Performance: A Study of the Hospital Sector P.S. Raju, PhD Richard Germain, PhD B. Davis-Sramek S. Lonial Journal of Business Logistics. September 2011 Mitigating the limited scalability of bootstrapping through strategic alliances to enhance new venture growth James O. Fiet, PhD P. Patel J. Sohl International Small Business Journal. July 2011 Are new IT-enabled investment opportunities diminishing for firms? Zheng, Z. Mookerjee, V.S. Chen, H. Information Systems Research. June 2011 Strategies for Engaging Students in your Hybrid Course Melissa A. Campbell, EdD Kentucky Converging Trends Conference. May 2011 Strategic revelation of differences in segment earnings growth Julie (Ying) Huang, PhD Q. Wang M. Etteredge Journal of Accounting and Public Policy. May 2011 Getting from engagement to retention: Not just a millennial dilemma Warren (Dale) D. McIntosh, MS Kentucky Converging Trends. May 2011 Restatement disclosures and management earnings forecasts Julie (Ying) Huang, PhD M. Etteredge W. Zhang Accounting Horizons. February 2011 Strategic innovation: A toolkit for leadership team conversations Ryan W. Quinn, PhD T. Golsby-Smith Business & Economy. January 2011 The bonding continuum in financial planner-client relationships Journal of Financial Planning. October 2010 Enhancing the internal validity of entrepreneurship experiments by assessing treatment effects at multiple levels across multiple trials James O. Fiet, PhD P. Patel Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization. October 2010 Discrimination and minority ownership in radio broadcasting Barry M. Haworth, PhD Audrey D. Kline, PhD G. Ford International Journal of the Economics of Business. June 2010 Should you repay social security benefits to increase future benefits? Baxendale, S. J. Practical Tax Strategies. June 2010 An analysis of the determinants of student email use Barry M. Haworth, PhD Journal of Education for Business . March 2010 All solution graphs in multidimensional screening Babu Nahata, PhD S. Kokovin E. Zhelobodko Journal of New Economic Association. January 2010 Earnings restatements and differential timeliness of accounting conservatism Julie (Ying) Huang, PhD M. Etteredge W. Zhang Journal of Accounting and Economics. July 2009 Lift: Becoming a Positive Force in Any Situation Ryan W. Quinn, PhD R. E. Quinn Berrett-Koehler Publishers. June 2009 Prescriptive Entrepreneurship James O. Fiet, PhD Edward Elger Publications. September 2008 A TETRAD-based approach for theory development in information systems research Ghiyoung Im, PhD J. Wang Communications of the Association for Information Systems. September 2008 Enabling courageous collective action: Conversations from United Airlines Flight 93 Ryan W. Quinn, PhD M. C. Worline Organization Science. August 2008 Knowledge sharing ambidexterity in interorganizational relationships Ghiyoung Im, PhD Rai, A. Management Science. July 2008 Auto lease vs. purchase under the economic stimulus act of 2008 William D. Stout, PhD S.J. Baxendale Practical Tax Strategies. June 2008 Old capital vs. new investment in post-soviet economies: Conceptual issues and estimates John Vahaly, PhD Alexei I. Izyumov, PhD Comparative Economic Studies. March 2008 Money Management & Personal Finance Jay T. Brandi, PhD Great River Learning. January 2008 Multi-Agent and Case-Based Reasoning Collaboration Mechanisms for Supply Chain Management under Demand and Supply Uncertainties Ghiyoung Im, PhD Kwon, O. B. Lee, K. C. Multi-Agent and Case-Based Reasoning Collaboration Mechanisms for Supply Chain Management under Demand and Supply Uncertainties. October 2007 Reporting bad news on software projects: The effects of culturally constituted views of face-saving Ghiyoung Im, PhD M. Keil M. Mähring Information Systems Journal. January 2007 A model of corporate entrepreneurship as a strategic adaptation mechanism Robert P. Garrett, Jr., PhD Jeffrey G. Covin Advances in Entrepreneurship, Firm Emergence, and Growth: Vol. 10 Entrepreneurial Strategic Process. January 2007 Auto lease vs. purchase: guidance for business owners William D. Stout, PhD S.J.Baxendale Practical Tax Strategies. September 2006 Entrepreneurial discovery by the working poor James O. Fiet, PhD Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD P. Patel Journal of Developmental Enterpreneurship. September 2006 Revenue recognition revolutionized: The brave new world of RFID chips William D. Stout, PhD S.J. Baxendale CPA Journal. July 2006 Estate tax valuation and comparative discounting for the limited liability company investment fund Jay T. Brandi, PhD Journal of Legal Economics. June 2006 Virtual work, teams, and organizations Manju Ahuja, PhD R. Davidson Information Technology & People, Vol. 19: Virtual work, teams and organizations. June 2006 Venture opportunity evaluations: Comparisons between venture capitalists and inexperienced pre-nascent entrepreneurs K. Bishop Journal of Developmental Entrepreneurship. January 2006 A Longitudinal Study of Information System Threat Categories: The Enduring Problem of Human Error Ghiyoung Im, PhD Baskerville, R A Longitudinal Study of Information System Threat Categories: The Enduring Problem of Human Error. September 2005 Business Environment and Concepts (Lambers CPA Review) Baxendale, S. J. Levitan, A. S. Business Environment and Concepts (Lambers CPA Review). April 2005 A test of the investor’s daily stock ranking system John P. Nelson, PhD D. Olson C. Witt C. Mossman The Financial Review. March 2005 Next Generation of Data-Mining Applications Jozef M. Zurada, PhD M. Kantardzic Wiley-IEEE Press. March 2005 Exploring Spreadsheet Software Sandeep Goyal, PhD X. Wang Pearson Custom. January 2005 Annual measures of gross job gains and gross job losses Joshua C. Pinkston, PhD J. Spletzer Monthly Labor Review. November 2004 Business united in leadership development: Alumni perceptions of a program promoting business as a degree program and career for African-Americans Jay T. Brandi, PhD The Negro Educational Review. May 2004 Lost and Found: The Story of How One Man Discovered the Secrets of Leadership. . . Where He Wasn’t Even Looking S. Deep A. Steiber Crown Business. February 2004 Passenger vehicle lease vs. purchase for business users William D. Stout, PhD S.J. Baxendale Practical Tax Strategies. May 2003 Annual measures of job creation and job destruction created from quarterly ES-202 microdata Joshua C. Pinkston, PhD J. Spletzer Proceedings of the American Statistical Association. November 2002 Sharpe/Treynor performance attribution model: A practitioner’s approach to using the Sharpe and Treynor reward to risk ratios Jay T. Brandi, PhD The Journal of Pension Planning & Compliance. May 2002 Marketing to American Latinos: A guide to the in-culture approach Charles L. Sharp, PhD Journal of Consumer Marketing. April 2002 Protecting against ERISA liability of “sideline” nonfiduciary advisors Jay T. Brandi, PhD Labor Law Journal. April 2001 Oligopoly and the Redistribution of Market Share Under Commodity Taxation Oligopoly and the Redistribution of Market Share Under Commodity Taxation. November 1998 Intensity of competition and the choice between product and process innovation Barry M. Haworth, PhD Giacomo Bonanno International Journal of Industrial Organization. July 1998 Mine valuation when reserve estimates are stochastic: An option valuation application to U.S. gold mines Imad A. Elhaj, PhD National Science Foundation. June 1998 Following the leader in R&D: the joint effect of subordinate problem-solving style and leader-member relations on innovative behavior Reginald A. Bruce, PhD S. Scott IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management. March 1998 Bivariate Count Data Regression Models – A SAS Macro Program Nan-Ting Chou, PhD D. Steenhard Bivariate Count Data Regression Models – A SAS Macro Program. January 1998 Dollars through the Doors: A Pre-1930 History of Bank Marketing in America Richard Germain, PhD Dollars through the Doors: A Pre-1930 History of Bank Marketing in America. August 1996 CEO Duality and Firm Performance: What’s the Fuss R. Charles Moyer, PhD Ramesh P. Rao B. Ram Baliga Strategic Management Journal. January 1996 Decision-making style: the development and assessment of a new measure Reginald A. Bruce, PhD S. Scott Educational and Psychological Measurement. October 1995 Varieties and commonalities of career transitions: Louis’ typology revisited. Reginald A. Bruce, PhD Susanne Scott Journal of Vocational Behavior. August 1994 Bankruptcy Costs and the Financial Leasing Decision R. Charles Moyer, PhD V. Sivarama Krishnan Financial Management. July 1994 Neuroticism, Affect and Postpurchase Processes Todd A. Mooradian, PhD James M. Olver Chris Allen Deborah Roedder John Advances in Consumer Research. January 1994 Study Guide to Ruffin & Gregory’s Economics John Vahaly, PhD S. Foresman J. Parker Economics (Fifth Edition). June 1993 Was There a Pepsi Generation Before Pepsi Discovered It? Youth- Based Segmentation in Marketing Richard Germain, PhD S.C. Hollander Was There a Pepsi Generation Before Pepsi Discovered It? Youth- Based Segmentation in Marketing. August 1992 Logistical Excellence: It’s Not Business as Usual Richard Germain, PhD D.J. Bowersox P. Daugherty C. Dröge D. S. Rogers Logistical Excellence: It's Not Business as Usual. December 1991 Security Analyst Monitory Activity: Agency Costs and Information Demand R. Charles Moyer, PhD Phillip M. Sisneros Robert E. Chatfield Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis. December 1989 Public-private partnership: past and future John P. Nelson, PhD M. Carrell Regional. December 1987 Using control charts to monitor employee performance Robert C. Myers, ABD R. Shiffler Proceedings of the Institute for Decision Science National Conference. November 1985 Personnel and organization factors related to turnover of Certified Public Accountants Mike Carrell The Midwest American Accounting Association Meeting. March 1980 Ethical behavior—prerequisite for a profession The Southeast Regional Meeting of the American Accounting Association. April 1979 Uptown Cigarettes: A comparison Of media treatments in the African American market And the general market Charles L. Sharp, PhD Minority Marketing: Research Perspectives For The 1990's (The Academy of Marketing Science), Vol. 6. December 1978 Evaluating personnel procedures in CPA firms Mike Carrell Journal of Accountancy. October 1978 Tolerance for ambiguity as a personality construct in accountants Mike Carrell Proceedings of the Southwest Academy of Management Meeting. March 1978 Ratings of equitable treatment and employee turnover Mike Carrel Proceedings of the Southwest Academy of Management Meeting. March 1978 Consumer perception of a dual brand Kenneth Hartung, MBA Journal of Retailing. November 1973 Eine charakterisierung der endlichen Hughes-ebenen [Trans: Characterization of the finite Hughes planes] Harald Unkelbach Geometriae Dedicata. January 1973 Personnel and Organization Factors Related to Turnover of Certified Public Accountants,” The Midwest American Accounting Association Meeting Mike Carrell Rick Fern The Midwest American Accounting Association Meeting The ABA Top Performing Banks in a Time of Financial Crisis: Can They Outperform the Worst? Dianna C. Preece, DBA Filbeck, G. X. Zhao The Banking and Finance Review Transformational leadership in U.S. congregations: An extension of prior research Reginald A. Bruce, PhD (Forthcoming) The Toyota Way and the Theory of Constraints: Two sides of the same coin? Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD F. A. Baptista International Journal of Services and Operations Management EVA-based performance evaluation of Initial Public Offerings: Analysis and some TOC-based insights Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD X. Hilmola Journal of Cost Management Towards a Balanced Scorecard: A TOC/ABC-Based Synergistic Framework (Part I) Mahesh C. Gupta, PhD Journal of Cost Management Methods of Digraph for Multi-dimensional Screening Babu Nahata, PhD S. Kokovin Annals of Operations Research Applying Lean, Six Sigma, & the Theory of Constraints to non-profit service organizations Andrew S. Manikas, PhD M. Godfrey A Newsvendor Model Incorporating Actual Freight Rates and Environmental Costs Andrew S. Manikas, PhD M. Godfrey Exploring Consumer Repeat Purchase Incentives at an International Baking and Food Company Andrew S. Manikas, PhD M. Godfrey Skiver, R. Dupuit conjecture for constrained screening: Overall distortion and type-partitioning Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish