Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > Recognizing excellence: Collins College of Business Honors and Awards 2022 Recognizing excellence: Collins College of Business Honors and Awards 2022 May 9, 2022 On May 5, the Collins College of Business recognized outstanding students, faculty, staff and alumni at its Honors and Awards 2022 reception. The recipients were recognized for their achievements and contributions not only to the college, but also to the communities in which they work and live. “This year’s award recipients have shown both personal and professional excellence in a number of ways,” said Genave King Rogers Dean Kathy Taylor. “In a year that will always be remembered as our first year moving back toward what we think of as the ‘normal’ higher education experience, these individuals accomplished great things for not only themselves, but also the community and our university. The Collins College of Business could not be prouder of them.” Alumni and student awards Two awards recognized four alumni. Mohammed Abdalla (BSBA ’11) and Justin Harlan (BSBA ’09) were selected as recipients of the 2022 Fast Track Alumnus awards. Outstanding Alumnus awards went to Amanda Aragon (BSBA ’09) and Aaron Johnson (BSBA ’09). The David R. Lawson Outstanding Senior Award, which recognizes excellence in scholarship and leadership, was presented to four graduating seniors: Lauren Agpoon, Ashley Allgood, Luke Bertaux and Grace Touthang. Faculty and staff awards Several Collins College of Business faculty and staff were also honored with the following awards: Helmerich Graduate Teaching Excellence: Anila Madhan Undergraduate Teaching Excellence: Tim Hart Mayo Staff Excellence: Dontae Doughty Mayo Research Excellence Award: Kazim Tapuz University of Tulsa Outstanding Researcher: Saeed Samiee “This is a very impressive lineup of students, faculty and alumni,” said Senior Associate Dean of Academic Affairs Adrien Bouchet. “With this graduating class of seniors, I’ve known each of them during my time at the Collins College of Business and can, without a doubt, confidently say they’re going on to do very impressive things wherever their journeys take them. Our community and our university are fortunate to have a connection with them.” To learn more about the Collins College of Business Honors and Awards or to view a list of past recipients, visit this page. Alumni, Business, Faculty, Featured, News, Stories honors and awards, Kathy Taylor 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT