Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Programs All Programs Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Alumni Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Home Programs Undergraduate Minors Dyson Business Minor for Engineers Dyson Business Minor for Engineers People skills and knowledge of business fundamentals can position engineers for the creation and delivery of more effective solutions. Teamwork, communication, and collaboration are skills that you’ll need as you interface with others—especially when you’re tasked with delivering sophisticated solutions to clients or customers. Understanding how core business functions “work” and how stakeholders measure success will help you gain support and resources to turn your engineering ideas into reality. With the Dyson business minor for engineers (DBME), you’ll begin to understand how managers think and how finance, marketing, accounting, and operations can affect business decisions. Who’s eligible for the DBME? All undergraduates in the College of Engineering and select majors in the colleges of Arts & Sciences and Agriculture and Life Sciences (see full list below). How many credits are required? 13.5 core credits (7 must be Johnson College of Business courses) across areas such as business, finance, accounting and operations. In addition, 3 credits in microeconomics is the required foundation course. I’m interested. What’s next? After reviewing the requirements below and our FAQ and policies page, you can begin the process using the Business Minors Dashboard. Current students: You can manage your minor and track your progress using the Business Minors Dashboard. Eligible engineering majors The DBME is open to students majoring in certain engineering subjects within Cornell’s colleges listed below. College of Engineering All undergraduate majors in the College of Engineering are eligible. However, there is a difference in requirements for students majoring in Operations Research and Engineering (ORIE) and ORIE students must pursue the DBME-ORIE option. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Biological Engineering Environmental Engineering Information Science College of Arts & Sciences Computer Science Information Science Foundation Course This minor requires 3 credits in microeconomics. We recommend taking this course before taking the minor’s core courses and require it to be completed by your sixth semester. A letter grade of a C or better is required. Introductory microeconomics (3 credits) One of the following courses is required: Course Code Course Title ECON 1110 Introductory Microeconomics ECON 3030 Intermediate Microeconomic Theory PAM 2000 Intermediate Microeconomics Core Requirements The minor’s core requirements (13.5 credits) must be fulfilled by taking courses in the five areas listed below, which includes 3 credits that are related to your career goals. Please note that 7 credits must be Johnson College of Business (JCB) courses, which include any course code of AEM, HADM, NBA, or NCC. A letter grade of a C or better is required. Students may not “double count” courses that overlap with the other business minors – the courses you choose may only count toward one minor. Introduction to basic business concepts (3 credits) One of the following courses is required: Course Code Course Title AEM 1200 Introduction to Business Management AEM 2400 Marketing ENGRI 1270 Introduction to Entrepreneurship for Engineers HADM 1810 Introduction to Management HADM 2410 Marketing Principles ILRID 1700 Introduction to Organizations and Management NCC 4530 / 5530 Marketing Management NCC 5540 Managing and Leading in Organizations NCC 5580 Managing Operations ORIE 4152/ENGRG 4610/MAE 4610 Entrepreneurship for Engineers Accounting principles (3 credits) One of the following classes is required: *Students in the ORIE major must take ORIE 3150, which will satisfy both the DBME accounting principles requirement and a core ORIE requirement. In addition, they must also take an additional course (3 credits) from the list of courses below. Course Code Course Title AEM 2210 Financial Accounting HADM 2230 Financial Accounting Principles NCC 5500 Financial Accounting ORIE 3150 Financial and Managerial Accounting One of the following additional courses is required for ORIE students: Course Code Course Title AEM 3360 Corporate Financial Reporting I AEM 4160 Strategic Pricing AEM 4210 Futures, Options, and Financial Derivatives AEM 4230 Contemporary Topics in Behavioral Finance AEM 4260 Fixed-Income Securities AEM 4280 Valuation of Capital Investment AEM 4290 International Financial Management ORIE 4130 Service System Modeling and Design ORIE 4600 Introduction to Financial Engineering ORIE 4630 Operations Research Tools for Financial Engineering ORIE 4820 Spreadsheet-Based Modeling and Data Analysis ORIE 5600 Financial Engineering with Stochastic Calculus Finance (3 credits) One of the following courses is required: Course Code Course Title AEM 2241 / 5241 Finance HADM 2250 Finance NCC 5560 Managerial Finance Capstone course (1.5 credits) The following course is required: Course Code Course Title AEM 4660 Business Simulation Career goals (3 credits) The remaining 3 credits for the DBME should align with your career goals. Given the breadth of Engineering careers, there is a wide range of courses under the topics of accounting, finance, entrepreneurship, management, and marketing. Please use the AEM Concentrations within Dyson as your guide to select your course based on your career goals. Any Cornell SC Johnson College of Business (AEM, HADM, NBA) upper level course (3000+) from this list is acceptable. Please note that many of these courses may give preference to Dyson majors and have specific prerequisite courses outside of the minor. *Note: ORIE majors may not use AEM 3100 or AEM 4120 to fulfill this requirement. Featured Course: Business Simulation AEM 4660 – Business Simulation is the minor’s capstone course. In this course, you’ll make individual and team-based decisions based on imperfect information and aggressive time constraints. Through analysis, coaching, and facilitation, you’ll learn how business decisions influence firm performance in a dynamic marketplace. A true business management crash course! Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Programs Undergraduate Admissions Minors Business Minor Business Minor for Engineers Business Minor for Life Sciences Majors Entrepreneurship and Innovation Applied Economics Food and Agricultural Business Sustainable Business and Economic Policy International Trade and Development Real Estate Policies and FAQs Graduate Executive Education Contact Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty & Staff Intranet SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Site Info Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell SC Johnson Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.