Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1646343079108 Graduate Programs MBA Programs FEMBA Flex MBA Program Comparison MA/MS Programs MS in Accountancy MS in Accounting and Finance MS in Taxation MA in Economics MS in Information Systems MS in Information Technology (online) Admissions How to Apply Upcoming Events Requirements Cost Scholarships/Financial Aid New Students New Student Checklist First Advising Session Plan Your Class Schedule Plan Your Class Schedule – FEMBA Plan Your Class Schedule – MSIT Welcome Seminar MSIT Bootcamp Course Equivalency Classification MBA Concentration Electives Master's Concentration Electives Current Students Internships Registration Research Opportunities Capstone Courses Graduation Check Alumni Association Regain Academic Success Contact Us Take Action Request More Information Attend An Admission Event Make An Appointment Start an Application Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1645201594788 Master of Science in Information Technology (Online) This nationally ranked, online program allows you the freedom and flexibility to pursue your education when it’s most convenient for you. U.S. News & World Report ranks the online Masters of Science (MS) in Information Technology program #2 in California and #21 in the U.S among online graduate programs. It can be completed over 20 months by taking two courses per semester year-round. There are two concentrations to choose from; Data Science and IT Management. You’ll enter the program with a cohort of students, providing an instant network of support and professional networking. Online program Cohort model designed to build professional network Fall admission Key Features: Understand the data communications and telecommunications requirements necessary to support Managed IT and cloud computing services. Learn systems development processes. Understand programming concepts and e-commerce. Build practical knowledge in the rapidly growing field of cybersecurity and cyberinsurance. Learn the accounting and managerial aspects of an information technology organization. Enhance your written and oral communication skills. Curriculum As an MSIT Online student, you will be required to complete 30 units of coursework with a minimum GPA of 3.0. This is a part-time only program; international students with full-time student visa requirements are not eligible to apply. Before starting the program, you must complete the orientation seminar, Boot-up Camp. You’ll also be required to attend the end-of-the-year seminar to assess your progress. You may choose between Data Science and IT Management, and the generalist concentration as concentration options.There may also be optional on-campus review sessions. Please visit the University Catalog for additional course descriptions and prerequisites. Cohort Format You will learn collaboratively with a cohort of working professionals. Together, you’ll follow the same year-round schedule taking two courses per semester over 20 months. You’ll have the support of your fellow cohort and establish your network from the very beginning of your educational journey. Prerequisites and Admission Requirements Gmat or GRE exam* One letter of recommendation Professional résumé Statement of purpose Leadership and creativity statement Official transcripts There are no required prerequisite courses for this program. Work experience in the IT field is recommended. *Waiver available for applicants that meet eligibility criteria. See admission requirements for more information. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported