Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Business Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services About Us Centers & Institutes Committed to Inclusivity Faculty Rankings Meet the Dean Mission, Vision & Values News Program Rankings Strategic Plan (2022-2027) Student Statistics Visit the College Contact Us Undergraduate Advising Majors Minors Admission Requirements Changing Your Major FAQs Scholarships Graduate Request More Info Advising Combined Bachelor's/Master's Pathways GMAT/GRE Waiver International Applicants Master's Degrees Military Applicants Online Programs Ph.D. Program Program Costs Program Handbooks Recruit Master's Students Scholarships State of Florida Employees Working Professionals Departments Accounting Business Analytics, Information Systems & Supply Chain Finance Management Center for Human Resource Management Advisory Board CHRM Research Collaborations Degree Options Employer Panel & Networking Night Faculty & Staff Directory Marketing Risk Management/Insurance, Real Estate & Legal Studies Department Students Academic Support/Tutoring Center for Professional Success College Calendar Collegewide Events Computer Recommendations Global Learning Opportunities Graduate Advising Job & Internship Board Scholarships Seneff Honors Program Student Leadership Council Student Success Submission Student Team Collaboration Lab Undergraduate Advising Visit the College Faculty & Staff All Faculty & Staff Directory Academic Department Directory Academic Technology Staff Directory Center for Professional Success Directory Dean's Office Staff Directory Doctoral Student Directory Graduate Programs Staff Directory IT Staff Directory Research Centers and Institutes Directory Undergraduate Programs Staff Directory Alumni & Friends Awards Boards Get Involved Networking Events Industry Corporate Talent Partners Executive Education Hire a Graduating Student Hire an Intern Give Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Business Toggle navigation About Us Centers & Institutes Committed to Inclusivity Faculty Rankings Meet the Dean Mission, Vision & Values News Program Rankings Strategic Plan (2022-2027) Student Statistics Visit the College Contact Us Undergraduate Advising Majors Minors Admission Requirements Changing Your Major FAQs Scholarships Graduate Request More Info Advising Combined Bachelor's/Master's Pathways GMAT/GRE Waiver International Applicants Master's Degrees Military Applicants Online Programs Ph.D. Program Program Costs Program Handbooks Recruit Master's Students Scholarships State of Florida Employees Working Professionals Departments Accounting Business Analytics, Information Systems & Supply Chain Finance Management Center for Human Resource Management Advisory Board CHRM Research Collaborations Degree Options Employer Panel & Networking Night Faculty & Staff Directory Marketing Risk Management/Insurance, Real Estate & Legal Studies Department Students Academic Support/Tutoring Center for Professional Success College Calendar Collegewide Events Computer Recommendations Global Learning Opportunities Graduate Advising Job & Internship Board Scholarships Seneff Honors Program Student Leadership Council Student Success Submission Student Team Collaboration Lab Undergraduate Advising Visit the College Faculty & Staff All Faculty & Staff Directory Academic Department Directory Academic Technology Staff Directory Center for Professional Success Directory Dean's Office Staff Directory Doctoral Student Directory Graduate Programs Staff Directory IT Staff Directory Research Centers and Institutes Directory Undergraduate Programs Staff Directory Alumni & Friends Awards Boards Get Involved Networking Events Industry Corporate Talent Partners Executive Education Hire a Graduating Student Hire an Intern Give For the latest related to COVID-19, visit fsu.edu/coronavirus Home Departments Management Center for Human Resource Management Accounting Business Analytics, Information Systems & Supply Chain Finance Management Center for Human Resource Management Advisory Board CHRM Research Collaborations Degree Options Employer Panel & Networking Night Faculty & Staff Directory Marketing Risk Management/Insurance, Real Estate & Legal Studies Department Center for Human Resource Management About the Center The mission is to facilitate networking among human-resource professionals, faculty and students to establish and transfer current best practices that support the advancement of human resources as a business discipline in member organizations. The center is an excellent example of effective collaboration between human-resource professionals in business and academia. It bridges the gap between organizational practitioners and university professors in an effort to enrich our scientific and applied understanding of important human-resource issues. The center’s board members are top human resource professionals, who are responsible for the strategic direction of the human resource function in their firms. Center members, which include corporate partners and faculty members, meet formally twice a year – once in the fall and once in the spring. The spring meeting is held on Florida State’s campus and includes a full day of activities including presentations from national experts, corporate partners and Florida State faculty members – all centered on ground-breaking human resource issues. The meetings also feature networking opportunities with other top human resource executives, faculty and students. The off-campus fall meeting is considered our main recruiting meeting and the location takes place in a relaxed and fun environment. In addition to the informative meetings, corporate members can partner with faculty member to collect and analyze data and produce needed research for their organizations. The center also provides an email distribution listserve, from which members can obtain prompt, current information from fellow members on pressing human resource problems. CHRM Advisory Board News & Research Fall 2017 Newsletter CHRM Research Student Involvement A goal of the Center for Human Resource Management is to connect with and support human resource management majors at Florida State. This goal is achieved by: Sponsoring scholarships through the center for outstanding human-resource majors. Scholarship recipients are selected by center faculty members using criteria such as academic standing, career goals and demonstrated leadership in our student chapter of the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM). Inviting HR students to join the center’s members for breakfast and lunch during their on-campus meeting. Matching top HR students interested in completing an internship with the firms of the center members. Inviting HR doctoral to students present their dissertation ideas, and obtain data-collection opportunities from center members. Inviting center members to guest lecture in HR classes. To learn more about opportunities with the Center for Human Resource Management, please contact center director Dr. Darren Brooks. Past Meetings Spring 2019 Meeting Attendees Board Members Kurt Adler - Northern Trust; Linda Bond Edwards – Rumberger, Kirk, and Caldwell; Angela Sterley – Rumberger, Kirk, and Caldwell (Guest); David Faulkenberry – FBMC; Corey Heller – UA Brands; Myrna Hoover – FSU Career Center; Jo Carol Rutherford – Free Agent; Tom Shea – Right Management; Janet Wincko – City Furniture; Mitch Kramer – Octagon Professional Recruiting; Frank Lopez – Ryder System, Inc.; Fran Luisi – Odgers Berndtson; Kelly McLaughlin – FSU & Big Bend SHRM; Dan Coughlin – The Coughlin Company (Guest) FSU Faculty Darren Brooks, Pamela Perrewé, Gang Wang, Jerry Ferris, Chad Van Iddenkine, Shanna Daniels, Sam Paustian-Underdahl, Deborah Armstrong, Lance Kerwin, Chelsea Vaughn FSU Student Leaders Julia Crawford (student SHRM President); Mia Thomas – Graduate Assistant, Sarah Mundt – Graduate Volunteer Full Summary Fall 2018 Meeting Attendees Board Members: Janet Wincko – City Furniture, Jo Carol Rutherford – Free Agent, Suzanne Calfee – Kaplan Higher and Professional Education, Charles Johnson – Health System Solutions, Kurt Adler - Northern Trust, Tom Shea – Right Management, Ken Finneran – Kaseya, Lisbeth Heggerick – JM Family Enterprises, Cynthia Fraser – DHL e-commerce FSU Faculty: Darren Brooks, Executive Director - CHRM Thursday, October 11th FSU CHRM board members braved the remnants of hurricane Michael by gathering together in the Flagler Arts Village of Ft. Lauderdale at The Work Bar. ARC Broward’s Culinary Institute catered the event with delicious food and wonderful service. The Work Bar is facility used by ARC students and business partners for workplace diversification and skills training. Programs and services offered out of this location helps businesses learn how to utilize the skills of those with disabilities as well as facilitates the transition of students to the workforce. In addition, a special thank you goes to Julie Price, COO, of ARC Broward who provided an overview of the programs and services provided by ARC Broward. It is fair to say that members were impressed by the great work being done by this organization. My hopes are that the evening facilitated awareness and connections between our member firms and ARC Broward to support their mission. You can find more information about ARC Broward at the following link: https://www.arcbroward.com/. Friday, October 12th Advisory Board of Directors Meeting Our host organization City Furniture treated members to breakfast to get the day started. Renegade, the board mascot, and our new chair Janet Wincko called the meeting to order at 8:30am. The meeting began with each board member and guest introducing themselves and providing a professional update including challenges and successes they and/or their organization have recently experienced. Two of our members Charles Johnson of Health System Solutions and Ken Finneran of Kaseya shared updates about their transition to new organizations. We are all excited for both Charles and Ken in their new roles. Congratulations! Janet then thanked Charles Johnson for his tenure as the board vice chair and introduced Jo Carol Rutherford as the new vice chair. Thank you Charles for your commitment and dedication over the past several years. We look forward to having Jo Carol’s passion and energy help all of us continue to move the CHRM forward. We began the business update with a discussion of the status of the new college building including a virtual fly-through of the proposed facility. Members were excited to see the design images of the college as we move closer to this becoming a reality! In addition to updates at the college level, I shared the budget status, additional fund raising programs and priorities, HRM programmatic updates, and the student SHRM chapter fall events. Janet reviewed the bylaws modifications based on feedback from members. One significant addition is the inclusion of the FSU-SHRM president as the student representative on the Executive Committee. This will help ensure that the CHRM advisory board of directors has direct input from the student perspective further strengthening the connection between members and students. Prior to the lunch break, Janet took us on a tour of City Furniture. We had the opportunity to see the distribution center, wellness clinic, and the HR Department. Probably the highlight of the tour was the ping pong and pool tables in the warehouse. It became apparent in talking with many of the employees during the tour that they enjoy working at City Furniture which is a testament to the firm’s leadership and the great work their HR department is doing! Well done Janet. Members spent the afternoon discussing strategic activities and initiatives to further the CHRM mission. The focus was on two areas: (1) student development and engagement and (2) member recruitment. Ideas for student development and engagement ideas focused on leveraging member expertise as well as hosting experiential opportunities such as panels, job shadowing, and local events during breaks that benefit students and connect them with members. Member recruitment concentrated on describing the value proposition of membership and who/where do we want to recruit members. Notes from that discussion will be sent to members under a separate cover. The day provided a forum for information exchange and planning. In addition, starting in spring 2019, all board meetings will be held at FSU to encourage more engagement and collaboration with students and faculty. Janet, Jo Carol, and I will be working on tentative dates for the spring and fall to provide ample time for travel planning. Thank you board members for your support and commitment to the CHRM. We could not do what we do without you. Go Noles! Fall 2018 Meeting Attendees Board Members: Janet Wincko – City Furniture, Jo Carol Rutherford – Free Agent, Suzanne Calfee – Kaplan Higher and Professional Education, Charles Johnson – Health System Solutions, Kurt Adler - Northern Trust, Tom Shea – Right Management, Ken Finneran – Kaseya, Lisbeth Heggerick – JM Family Enterprises, Cynthia Fraser – DHL e-commerce FSU Faculty: Darren Brooks, Executive Director - CHRM Thursday, October 11th FSU CHRM board members braved the remnants of hurricane Michael by gathering together in the Flagler Arts Village of Ft. Lauderdale at The Work Bar. ARC Broward’s Culinary Institute catered the event with delicious food and wonderful service. The Work Bar is facility used by ARC students and business partners for workplace diversification and skills training. Programs and services offered out of this location helps businesses learn how to utilize the skills of those with disabilities as well as facilitates the transition of students to the workforce. In addition, a special thank you goes to Julie Price, COO, of ARC Broward who provided an overview of the programs and services provided by ARC Broward. It is fair to say that members were impressed by the great work being done by this organization. My hopes are that the evening facilitated awareness and connections between our member firms and ARC Broward to support their mission. You can find more information about ARC Broward at the following link: https://www.arcbroward.com/. Friday, October 12th Advisory Board of Directors Meeting Our host organization City Furniture treated members to breakfast to get the day started. Renegade, the board mascot, and our new chair Janet Wincko called the meeting to order at 8:30am. The meeting began with each board member and guest introducing themselves and providing a professional update including challenges and successes they and/or their organization have recently experienced. Two of our members Charles Johnson of Health System Solutions and Ken Finneran of Kaseya shared updates about their transition to new organizations. We are all excited for both Charles and Ken in their new roles. Congratulations! Janet then thanked Charles Johnson for his tenure as the board vice chair and introduced Jo Carol Rutherford as the new vice chair. Thank you Charles for your commitment and dedication over the past several years. We look forward to having Jo Carol’s passion and energy help all of us continue to move the CHRM forward. We began the business update with a discussion of the status of the new college building including a virtual fly-through of the proposed facility. Members were excited to see the design images of the college as we move closer to this becoming a reality! In addition to updates at the college level, I shared the budget status, additional fund raising programs and priorities, HRM programmatic updates, and the student SHRM chapter fall events. Janet reviewed the bylaws modifications based on feedback from members. One significant addition is the inclusion of the FSU-SHRM president as the student representative on the Executive Committee. This will help ensure that the CHRM advisory board of directors has direct input from the student perspective further strengthening the connection between members and students. Prior to the lunch break, Janet took us on a tour of City Furniture. We had the opportunity to see the distribution center, wellness clinic, and the HR Department. Probably the highlight of the tour was the ping pong and pool tables in the warehouse. It became apparent in talking with many of the employees during the tour that they enjoy working at City Furniture which is a testament to the firm’s leadership and the great work their HR department is doing! Well done Janet. Members spent the afternoon discussing strategic activities and initiatives to further the CHRM mission. The focus was on two areas: (1) student development and engagement and (2) member recruitment. Ideas for student development and engagement ideas focused on leveraging member expertise as well as hosting experiential opportunities such as panels, job shadowing, and local events during breaks that benefit students and connect them with members. Member recruitment concentrated on describing the value proposition of membership and who/where do we want to recruit members. Notes from that discussion will be sent to members under a separate cover. The day provided a forum for information exchange and planning. In addition, starting in spring 2019, all board meetings will be held at FSU to encourage more engagement and collaboration with students and faculty. Janet, Jo Carol, and I will be working on tentative dates for the spring and fall to provide ample time for travel planning. Thank you board members for your support and commitment to the CHRM. We could not do what we do without you. Go Noles! Fall 2017 Attendees Board Members and Guests Kurt Adler - Northern Trust, George Boué – Stiles Corporation, Bernardo Buraglia – Millicom, Suzanne Calfee – Kaplan Higher Education, Stephen Cerrone – SunEdison, Dan DiDomenico – Brambles, Mike Estrada - Costa Farms, David Faulkenberry – FBMC, Kenneth Finneran – National Beverage Corporation, Jennifer Foreman - Mount Sinai Medical Center, Cynthia Fraser – DHL eCommerce, Stephen Fuller – Stephen Fuller Consulting, Lisbeth Heggerick – JM Family Enterprises, Charles Johnson - Baptist Health South Florida, Mitch Kramer – Octagon Professional Recruiting, Maggie Laureano – Embraer Aircraft Holdings, Fran Luisi – Odgers Berndtson, Craig Nichols – Broward County Schools, Jo Carol Rutherford – SBA Communications Corporation, Margie Vargas – Memorial Healthcare System, Corey Heller – UA Brands, Tom Shea – Right Management, Janet Wincko – City Furniture, and Frank Lopez – Ryder System FSU Faculty Darren Brooks, Pamela Perrewé Thursday, October 19th FSU CHRM board members, spouses, and invited guests began our fall meeting by gathering together at the Lauderdale Yacht Club. The club which was founded in 1938, sits along the scenic Intracoastal, provided the perfect venue to socialize and connect with each other in a relaxed atmosphere. It was a memorable way to start the fall 2017 meeting. Friday, October 20th The board meeting attendees were twenty-eight business professionals and members of the FSU faculty. The morning kicked-off with a continental breakfast hosted by Ryder System and FSU-CHRM board member Frank Lopez. Thank you Frank and Sandy! Tom Shea, Board Chair, and Renegade, board mascot, called the meeting to order. The meeting began with each board member and guest introducing themselves and providing a professional update including challenges and successes they and/or their organization have recently experienced. Sharing experiences provides an opportunity for members to exchange professional insights and learn from each other. The meeting then moved into the business update. Darren Brooks, CHRM Executive Director, shared the center activities and achievements since the April 2017 meeting. Next, the center budget was presented along with a six-year historical review of the budget and the importance of member dues and generating additional funding sources. Member annual dues were confirmed to be $1,000. In addition, to align with the practice of other college of business centers, board members will commit to a 3-year, renewable term. Active and dues paying members interested in continuing to serve with the center will agree to a subsequent 3-year term. To coincide with the term duration, members will receive a pledge form indicating their intent to pay the annual due over the 3-year term. The pledge commitment will allow the center to better forecast due related revenue and leverage the infrastructure of the FSU Foundation to assist with dues notification and processing. The business meeting concluded with a call for four volunteers to assist in the development of bylaws for the center to put in necessary structure and governance around the advisory board of directors. Members expressed enthusiasm around the direction the center is heading. Pam Perrewé, Associate Director for CHRM Research, gave an informative update on several research projects led by FSU graduate students and faculty. The members had great interest in recent findings on pregnancy discrimination and the effect on the health of an unborn child. Pam also shared some findings of a recent study on perceptions of gay and lesbian leaders. Members continued to offer additional suggestions of research areas throughout the day. Prior to lunch, board members Suzanne Calfee and David Faulkenberry presented on the topics of change management and employee engagement. Suzanne’s presentation focused on the change management and implementation practices developed by Kaplan due to their recent acquisition by Purdue University. David Faulkenberry discussed employee engagement practices at FBMC and as well as how his firm advises client organizations to leverage employee benefits to engage employees. After lunch, our host, Frank Lopez discussed the history and operations of Ryder System. The highlight of the presentation was a video showing truck mechanics rebuilding a truck destroyed 3 by explosives and road spikes. Frank also offered a virtual tour of a Ryder warehouse via two virtual reality headsets. Next, board member Janet Wincko presented City Furniture’s approach to talent management and succession planning. Board members were engaged in the discussion as many of the organization’s represented at the meeting are dealing with succession planning for their executive teams. The professional member-student mentor program pilot was introduced by Darren Brooks. Beginning January 2018, volunteer members will be paired with an FSU-SHRM student to mentor over a 10-week time period. Volunteers were requested to participate in the spring pilot with full implementation taking place in fall 2018. Additional student development and academic program updates were also provided by the Executive Director. Particularly, the interest in growing internship and placement opportunities for HRM students, as well as the latest update on students preparing to take the SHRM-CP exam and the MBA-HRM specialization program. Tom Shea and Darren Brooks concluded a productive meeting by inviting members to participate in the traditional group photograph. More information will be forth coming on volunteer needs for the bylaws development committee, student internship needs for the summer, and topic ideas for the spring newsletter. Thank you to all of our board members and guest for your support and commitment to the center. Go Noles! Attendees Board Members and Guests Kurt Adler - Northern Trust, George Boué – Stiles Corporation, Bernardo Buraglia – Millicom, Suzanne Calfee – Kaplan Higher Education, Stephen Cerrone – SunEdison, Dan DiDomenico – Brambles, Mike Estrada - Costa Farms, David Faulkenberry – FBMC, Kenneth Finneran – National Beverage Corporation, Jennifer Foreman - Mount Sinai Medical Center, Cynthia Fraser – DHL eCommerce, Stephen Fuller – Stephen Fuller Consulting, Lisbeth Heggerick – JM Family Enterprises, Charles Johnson - Baptist Health South Florida, Mitch Kramer – Octagon Professional Recruiting, Maggie Laureano – Embraer Aircraft Holdings, Fran Luisi – Odgers Berndtson, Craig Nichols – Broward County Schools, Jo Carol Rutherford – SBA Communications Corporation, Margie Vargas – Memorial Healthcare System, Corey Heller – UA Brands, Tom Shea – Right Management, Janet Wincko – City Furniture, and Frank Lopez – Ryder System FSU Faculty Darren Brooks, Pamela Perrewé Thursday, October 19th FSU CHRM board members, spouses, and invited guests began our fall meeting by gathering together at the Lauderdale Yacht Club. The club which was founded in 1938, sits along the scenic Intracoastal, provided the perfect venue to socialize and connect with each other in a relaxed atmosphere. It was a memorable way to start the fall 2017 meeting. Friday, October 20th The board meeting attendees were twenty-eight business professionals and members of the FSU faculty. The morning kicked-off with a continental breakfast hosted by Ryder System and FSU-CHRM board member Frank Lopez. Thank you Frank and Sandy! Tom Shea, Board Chair, and Renegade, board mascot, called the meeting to order. The meeting began with each board member and guest introducing themselves and providing a professional update including challenges and successes they and/or their organization have recently experienced. Sharing experiences provides an opportunity for members to exchange professional insights and learn from each other. The meeting then moved into the business update. Darren Brooks, CHRM Executive Director, shared the center activities and achievements since the April 2017 meeting. Next, the center budget was presented along with a six-year historical review of the budget and the importance of member dues and generating additional funding sources. Member annual dues were confirmed to be $1,000. In addition, to align with the practice of other college of business centers, board members will commit to a 3-year, renewable term. Active and dues paying members interested in continuing to serve with the center will agree to a subsequent 3-year term. To coincide with the term duration, members will receive a pledge form indicating their intent to pay the annual due over the 3-year term. The pledge commitment will allow the center to better forecast due related revenue and leverage the infrastructure of the FSU Foundation to assist with dues notification and processing. The business meeting concluded with a call for four volunteers to assist in the development of bylaws for the center to put in necessary structure and governance around the advisory board of directors. Members expressed enthusiasm around the direction the center is heading. Pam Perrewé, Associate Director for CHRM Research, gave an informative update on several research projects led by FSU graduate students and faculty. The members had great interest in recent findings on pregnancy discrimination and the effect on the health of an unborn child. Pam also shared some findings of a recent study on perceptions of gay and lesbian leaders. Members continued to offer additional suggestions of research areas throughout the day. Prior to lunch, board members Suzanne Calfee and David Faulkenberry presented on the topics of change management and employee engagement. Suzanne’s presentation focused on the change management and implementation practices developed by Kaplan due to their recent acquisition by Purdue University. David Faulkenberry discussed employee engagement practices at FBMC and as well as how his firm advises client organizations to leverage employee benefits to engage employees. After lunch, our host, Frank Lopez discussed the history and operations of Ryder System. The highlight of the presentation was a video showing truck mechanics rebuilding a truck destroyed 3 by explosives and road spikes. Frank also offered a virtual tour of a Ryder warehouse via two virtual reality headsets. Next, board member Janet Wincko presented City Furniture’s approach to talent management and succession planning. Board members were engaged in the discussion as many of the organization’s represented at the meeting are dealing with succession planning for their executive teams. The professional member-student mentor program pilot was introduced by Darren Brooks. Beginning January 2018, volunteer members will be paired with an FSU-SHRM student to mentor over a 10-week time period. Volunteers were requested to participate in the spring pilot with full implementation taking place in fall 2018. Additional student development and academic program updates were also provided by the Executive Director. Particularly, the interest in growing internship and placement opportunities for HRM students, as well as the latest update on students preparing to take the SHRM-CP exam and the MBA-HRM specialization program. Tom Shea and Darren Brooks concluded a productive meeting by inviting members to participate in the traditional group photograph. More information will be forth coming on volunteer needs for the bylaws development committee, student internship needs for the summer, and topic ideas for the spring newsletter. Thank you to all of our board members and guest for your support and commitment to the center. Go Noles! Spring 2017 Attendees Board Members and Guests Kurt Adler - Northern Trust, Kelly Bleeker - Marsh & McLennan Agency, Linda Bond Edwards - Rumberger, Kirk, and Caldwell, Mike Estrada - Costa Farms, Claudia Foreman - Capital Health Plan, Jennifer Foreman - Mount Sinai Medical Center, Cindy Hartmann – FSU Athletics, Myrna Hoover – Career Center Florida State University, Charles Johnson - Baptist Health South Florida, Jeff Ling - Evergreen Solutions, LLC, Tom Shea – Right Management, Amber Kukulya – Sparxoo, August Toscano - Workplace Advisors, LLC, Janet Wincko – City Furniture, and Katrina Lee – Systems & Methods, Inc. Faculty: Deb Armstrong, Randy Blass, Darren Brooks, Jerry Ferris, Wayne Hochwarter, Pamela Perrewé, Chad Van Iddekinge, and Gang Wang Students Sarah Joyce, Lauren Demott, La'Vontae Johnson, Emily Werlink Thursday, April 6th Center members and invited guests began our time together by attending the 15th Annual College of Business Hall of Fame Dinner held at the Turnbull Conference Center as special guests of the Dean. The “black tie” event was a special evening as four College of Business alumni who have established themselves as leaders in their respective fields of business were honored. It was the wonderful way to start the gathering as members were able to socialize and enjoy the event. Friday, April 7th The Board Meeting was attended by 35 professionals, FSU faculty, and students. We kicked off the meeting with a continental breakfast hosted by the leadership team of the Center for Human Resource Management, Pam Perrewé and Darren Brooks. After breakfast, College of Business Dean Michael Hartline provided an overview of the state of the College, including the status of the Legacy Hall campaign. Dean Hartline share his vision around his four primary goals or four P’s – People, Programs, Physical Space, and Posture – to move the College of Business forward. A traditional activity of board meetings for each attendee is to introduce themselves and provide a professional update as well as issues they and/or their organization are experiencing. This is one of the more valuable parts of the meeting as it provides an opportunity for members to share information and learn from each other. We were fortunate to have FSU Vice President/Director of Athletics, Stan Wilcox provide his insight and experience in developing an athletic department. His extensive experience in as a student-athlete and administrator at the national and university levels afforded him a unique perspective on racial and gender inequality in intercollegiate athletics. Prior to lunch Darren Brooks presented the Centers 2017-2020 Strategic Goals and Initiatives. The purpose of the presentation was to outline the direction of the Center around five key goals focused on building a stronger community between members, faculty, and students through enhanced communications, increased opportunities for students and member engagement, expanding information sharing and member recruitment, increasing applied research focus, and developing alternative funding sources. Members, faculty, and students engaged in a productive discussion on the strategic goals and established momentum to carry forward as these goals are operationalized. A luncheon was provided by the Center to allow students and professionals the opportunity to network and discuss trends in our field. A key highlight of the spring meeting, was the recognition of Pam Perrewé for her 11 years of exceptional service as the Executive Director for the Center by Board Chair Tom Shea and new Executive Director Darren Brooks. Dr. Perrewé’s outstanding leadership and dedication to the mission of the Center were honored during the presentation. The Center is fortunate that Dr. Perrewé will remain as the Associate Director for Research. After lunch Drs. Pam Perrewé and Darren Brooks along with Board Chair Tom Shea presented FSU student SHRM Chapter President-Elect Sarah Joyce with a $2000 scholarship. This annual scholarship is presented to active SHRM chapter members who demonstrate exceptional scholarship and service to the chapter. Congratulations Sarah! Doctoral student Liam Maher presented an overview of his dissertation research study on the Impact of Leaders on Subordinate Learning. In addition to reviewing the key research questions, Liam discussed his need for data collection sites and asked members to consider allowing him to partner with their organization to administer the survey. At the conclusion, participating members would receive a technical report of the findings with recommendations tailored to their organization as well as free consulting on how to implement any of the recommendations. Tom Shea concluded a productive business meeting by inviting members to volunteer to host the Fall 2017 meeting. Details about potentials dates, location, and agenda items will be sent to members at a later time. Fall 2016 March 25, 2016 We met at a new venue this year; the Florida State University Alumni Association which is on the same grounds at the FSU President’s house. Attendance We had 31 participants for the spring, 2016 meeting. President John Thrasher, Pat Ahern, Darren Brooks, Bernardo Buraglia, Suzanne Calfee, David Faulkenberry, Jennifer Foreman, Myrna Hoover, Charles Johnson, Fran Luisi, Jo Carol Rutherford, Tom Shea, Margie Vargas, Janet Wincko, Deb Armstrong, Shanna Daniels, Jerry Ferris, Pam Perrewé, Kendrick Scott, Chad VanIddekinge, Wayne Hochwarter, Randy Blass, Katrina Chin Sue, Charn McAllister, DJ Steffensen, Jillian Flynn, Laura Gayle, Miranda Hindahl, Jules Orange, Hannah Weinbaum, and Emily Werlink. Two New Vice Chairs Mark Krauss and Southern Wine & Spirits have had an extremely busy year filled with ‘good news’ such as the acquisition of the Barcardi line and purchasing another company in Nebraska. Due to these exciting changes, Mark’s responsibilities have grown exponentially and, thus, Mark is stepping off as our CHRM Vice-Chair. Mark has served our organization for numerous years and he has been a critical part of our growth and vibrancy. Mark will remain an important member of our CHRM board of directors. He will be replaced by two of our outstanding board members, Charles Johnson (Baptist Health South Florida) and Janet Wincko (City Furniture). Thank you to Charles and Janet for stepping up for our CHRM organization. Thank you to Mark for all you have done for our Center. President Thrasher We began with a welcome speech from the President of Florida State University, Mr. John Thrasher. He talked about his vision for FSU, but focused on the College of Business and the importance of constructing a new showcase building for the College of Business. He announced the new Dean of our College of Business, Mike Hartline. President Thrasher is extremely optimistic about the future of our College of Business and FSU. Reimagining HR We had four tables of 8 for our breakout sessions to discuss topics redefining the role(s) of HR/Talent Management that may call into question our current HR practices. Each table included our corporate board members, faculty members, and students. Further, each table had a different topic to explore, namely, succession planning, engagement, recruitment & retention, and learning/leadership development. Each topics was discussed and explored by a different team and an HR student was chosen to report on the conclusions. This was a wonderful way to bring different perspectives together and to engage our FSU HR students. Great exercise! Thanks to Ken Finneran, Janet Wincko, and Tom Shea for this creative idea. Introductions As we do each year, participants had the opportunity to discuss the challenging, exciting, and complex events occurring in their professional lives. As you likely already know, we have an impressive board of directors. Tour of President’s House We had a guided tour of the President’s house and both President John Thrasher and his wife, Jean Thrasher, welcomed us into their home. John and Jean are pictured in the middle! SHRM Student Award Winners Shanna Daniels discussed the activities of our SHRM student chapter and reiterated the excitement when our FSU SHRM students won the case competition. Shanna also announced the two SHRM student award winners, Laura Gayle and Emily Werlink. Based on their high grades and service to the SHRM chapter, they both received a framed certificate and a $2,000.00 scholarship. Congratulations and well done. Emily, Shanna Daniels, and Laura are pictured below. Constantly Connected Darren Brooks was instrumental in obtaining several data sites last year for a study examining the effects of being constantly connected to work. Charn McAllister and DJ Steffensen (doctoral students) collected the data and are currently analyzing the data to determine the positive and negative outcomes associated with being constantly connected to work. Presentation PowerPoint slides are available. Perhaps the biggest finding thus far is that when employees perceive themselves to be constantly connected to work, they not only experience more job tension, but also report more work/family conflict. All participating organizations received a technical report for their organization. This is yet another example of how our faculty members and doctoral students can work with our CHRM organizations to examine real life concerns. Business Meeting Randy Blass updated us on the Entrepreneurial Bootcamp for Veterans, the Jim Moran Institute, and the new School of Entrepreneurship at Florida State University. The generosity of Jan Moran and the Jim Moran Foundation has generated a lot of excitement at FSU. The opening of the School of Entrepreneurship will be in 2018, coinciding with what would have been the 100th birthday of Jim Moran. Finally, Tom discussed our fall meeting and encouraged board members to consider hosting our next meeting. Fall 2015 October 22nd – 23rd, 2015 Thursday – October 22nd We had a lovely evening beginning with a wine tasting at Tom and Maureen Shea’s home. We sat outside by the pool and the evening could not have been more perfect. Southern Wine & Spirits provided the wine as well as the sommelier (who did an outstanding job). We then had a wonderful dinner inside Tom and Maureen’s lovely home. We ended the evening with some story telling – mostly around turtles. It was also great to have our newest members share their stories with us. Friday – October 23rd Meeting Location: We had our meeting at City Furniture, Tamarac, FL. Janet Wincko was our host and the meeting room, the tour, and meals were fabulous. Thank you, Janet for hosting us! Attendance – 21 at the meeting: Tom Shea, Mark Krauss, Jennifer Foreman, Suzanne Calfee, Charles Johnson, Jim Acton, Kurt Adler, Michael Spellman, August Toscano, Janet Wincko, Fran Luisi, Jeannette Delgado, Jo Carol Rutherford, Mitch Kramer, Pat Ahern, Ken Finneran, George Boué, David Faulkenberry, Jerry Ferris, Deb Armstrong, and Pam Perrewé. Business Meeting: The business meeting was facilitated by Tom Shea. We covered several issues including how to enhance the relationship between our CHRM Board and the College of Business at Florida State University. We noted that FSU has the only Center for Human Resource Management in a business school in the State of Florida. We discussed how we can add value to CHRM Board members as well as the College of Business at FSU and our students. Specific suggestions included organizing more opportunities for CHRM Board members to speak to classes and connecting with the Dean of the College of Business more directly and more frequently. We also discussed the role of CHRM Board members as mentors to our students as well as young professionals throughout the State. CHRM Board members voiced their opinions about student work values and the need to better understand the needs of the younger generation. We may include a session with FSU undergraduate students on what they value at our spring meeting. Finally, we discussed the possibility of the Center providing CEU credit for participation at the meetings. Conversation with Keith Koenig, CEO of City Furniture We were very fortunate to hear from Keith Koenig, the CEO of City Furniture. He is an extremely impressive individual whose values and integrity permeate the City Furniture organization. It was particularly intriguing to see how his values (e.g., transparency, lean management system, helping others, giving back to the community) affects the culture of the organization and how the employees engage in their work. Tour of City Furniture: Janet organized a fabulous tour of City Furniture which included their showroom as well as their receiving, delivery, repair and training areas. We were able to see a lot of the warehouse functions as we rode around on three elongated golf carts! Finally, we were able to visit the Wellness Center within City Furniture which was quite impressive. Talent Management – 2015 & Beyond Facilitated by Ken Finneran Ken asked the question ‘what’s innovative at your organization’? Ken Finneran discussed employee engagement and how to create employee excitement teams. CHRM Board members had the opportunity to discuss innovative programs at their organization that were aimed at developing and identifying talent. For example, we examined how the ‘boomerangs’ (individuals who changing jobs and leave the company, but then come back) can be an opportunity for organizations as they are often more loyal and stay longer. Spring 2015 March 26-27, 2015 Thursday, March 26th College of Business Hall of Fame Dinner We had a lovely dinner and we honored some very well accomplished College of Business alumni at our Thursday night dinner. Here is the list of inductees: Allan Bense – 2015 Inductee MBA '74 Chairman, President and CEO Bense Enterprises Inc. Former Speaker, Florida House of Representatives; Chairman, Florida State University Board of Trustees Dean Cash – 2015 Inductee MBA '75 President and CEO ATEL Capital Group John Culver – 2015 Inductee Hospitality Management '82 Group President Starbucks Coffee China and Asia Pacific Channel Development and Emerging Brands Fred Tresca – 2015 Inductee Accounting and Finance '82 Co-founder, Principal and Managing Director Branta Group Friday, March 27th Center for Human Resource Management Meeting The focus of this year’s meeting was on career success. We had some fabulous presentations and a lively panel discussion among our CHRM board members and our undergraduate and MBA students. Friday Meeting We met at a new venue this year; the Gus Turnbull Conference Center at Florida State University. Attendance Corporate Partners: Pat Ahern, Darren Brooks, Suzanne Calfee, Linda Bond Edwards, David Faulkenberry, Jennifer Foreman, Cynthia Fraser, Charles Johnson (who brought two guests; Erin Vickory and Raina Harrison), Tom Shea, Michael Spellman, and Janet Wincko. Florida State Faculty and Staff: Deb Armstrong, Randy Blass, Shanna Daniels, Jerry Ferris, Jack Fiorito, Susan Fiorito, Myrna Hoover, Tim Kinney, Bruce Lamont, Charn McAllister, Pam Perrewé, Chad Van Iddekinge, Gang Wang, and Calvin Williams. We also had twenty (20) students attend the afternoon session on career success, including six (6) MBA students. Morning Business Meeting Charles Johnson updated the board on our “Graduate Career Success Team” which is comprised of Charles Johnson, Janet Wincko, Suzanne Calfee, and Cynthia Fraser. Members of his committee also helped to update all of us on their communications with the Florida State Career Center Myrna Hoover (Director, Career Services) and Calvin Williams (Program Director for Employer Relation and Recruitment Services). Doctoral Presentation Charn McAllister presented some of his work on ‘connectivity in the workplace’. His research is looking at some of the downsides to being constantly connected to the workplace via smart phones and email. His PowerPoint presentation is available for all of you to see and if anyone is interested in opening up your firm for Charn to collect some data regarding this timely topic, please contact me at pperrewe@fsu.edu or Charn at charnmcallister@gmail.com. Career Center Presentation Myrna Hoover (Director, Career Services) and Calvin Williams (Program Director for Employer Relation and Recruitment Services) presented an overview of their career center operation at Florida State University. They discussed ways in which individual companies can connect with the career center for recruiting. Please see the PowerPoint presentation that contains all of the relevant information. Impressive Statistic: The FSU Career Center continues to be ranked in the top five (often one or two) career centers in the nation. Undergraduate SHRM Student Scholarship The Management Department at FSU has an endowment for undergraduate scholarships and our new Department Chair, Jack Fiorito, has graciously agreed to designate one scholarship each year for our SHRM student scholarship. The award is now a $2,000.00 scholarship. This year’s recipient was a surprised Hannah Weinbaum. Hannah has an exceptional grade point average and she has worked tirelessly with Shanna Daniels (our SHRM faculty advisor) as well as the SHRM chapter at FSU. Congratulations, Hannah! Afternoon Career Success Presentations to FSU students Career Success Strategies Tom Shea discussed his own personal career strategies and presented some very interesting statistics on the workplace traits of different generations in the workplace. I have already had numerous requests from our students for his PowerPoint presentation! Keys to Career Success Myrna Hoover (Director, Career Services) and Calvin Williams (Program Director for Employer Relation and Recruitment Services) presented information on career services and keys to career success to our undergraduate and MBA students. Their presentation was very well received by everyone and we look forward to a long and productive relationship with them. Panel Discussion - Question and Answer session with MBA and Undergraduate Students Panelists: Myrna Hoover & Calvin Williams (FSU Career Services representatives) Tom Shea (Chair of the Center for HR Management) Career Success Team (Charles Johnson, Janet Wincko, Suzanne Calfee, and Cynthia Fraser). Our students were completely absorbed by the panelists and asked very good questions related to careers until we simply ran out of time. Thank you to all who participated!! Presentation: "Linking Futures" - FSU Career Center (PDF) Presentation: "The Stress of Constant Creativity" - Charn P. McAllister (PDF) Presentation: "Career Success" - Thomas H. Shea, President, Florida/Caribbean Right Management (PDF) Spring 2014 April 4, 2014 Thursday Evening We had a reception and dinner at Harry’s Seafood and Grille. Caryn Beck-Dudley gave a great talk about the future of our College of Business and the role she would like to see the Centers play. Stephen Cerrone was unable to stay for the Friday meeting, but he presented to two groups at FSU on Thursday – one in the Retail Department in Human Sciences and one to an HR class in the College of Business. He was very well received!! Friday Meeting We met on the 2nd floor of the Club House at the Seminole Golf Course this year. Nice venue and different from where we have normally met when the meetings are held at Florida State University. Attendance for the meeting: Faculty: Gang Wang, Deb Armstrong, Wayne Hochwarter, Shanna Daniels, Lee Stepina, Tim Kinney, Jack Fiorito, Randy Blass, Jerry Ferris, and Pamela Perrewé. Doctoral Students: Charn McAllister and Parker Ellen. Corporate Board Members: Kurt Adler, Darren Brooks, Mark Krauss, Tom Shea, Cynthia Fraser, Mitch Kramer, David Faulkenberry, Andy Stross, Charles Johnson, Suzanne Calfee, and Janet Wincko. We also had our dean, Caryn Beck-Dudley, Stephen Cerrone, and Craig Nichols attend the reception and/or dinner the night before. Finally, we had 5 undergraduate SHRM students attend. We had over 30 people involved with the meeting this year! Business Meeting The first part of the morning was spent with our introduction and personal and professional updates. We had a great business meeting titled, “Enhancing the Value of CHRM for our Members, our Organizations and FSU.” During this meeting we examined the three-pronged mission of our Center; professional networking connections, knowledge transfer (e.g., research to practice and practice to research), and student support (e.g., mentoring, internships, hiring opportunities for undergraduates and data collection sites and research for our doctoral students). During the meeting we also decided that two meeting per year seems to be the desired number of meetings, but that we might try to do more “theme-oriented” meetings in the future. For those who cannot attend, we discussed the possibility of utilizing Skype to connect more members to the meeting. We also decided that more dialog on our secured email system might be helpful. We created an email “topic stimulation” team. The team members are Andy Stross, Kurt Adler, Darren Brooks, and Ken Finneran (Ha! Ken - we put folks on committees even when they are unable to attend the meeting)! Further, we wanted more involvement with our students and created the “Graduate Success Team”. Charles Johnson will chair this committee and other members include Suzanne Calfee, Janet Wincko, and Cynthia Fraser. This committee is moving along quickly as contacts with the head of our FSU Career Center have already been made. Speakers We had our two new professors in Management present some of their research to our Center for HR Board. Gang Wang, Ph.D.; Florida State University presented some of his research entitled, “Do CEOs Matter to Firm Profitability and Why?” His PowerPoint Presentation is attached. Shanna Daniels, Ph.D.; Florida State University presented some of her research entitled, “Supervisor Paternalism as Subtle Discrimination: Examining the Influence on Employee Work Experiences and Turnover” Her PowerPoint Presentation is attached. Thanks to both of them for an interesting and very relevant presentation. Mitch Kramer presented on “Recruitment and Finding Talent” We all enjoyed his talk, but our undergraduate SHRM students hung on every word! We were able to follow up the talk with a Q&A with our board members and our students over lunch. Before lunch, however, we were given a tour of the Seminole Golf Course facilities. Beautiful day and we even had a putting contest. None of us actually sank the putt, but a few came close (not me). Finally, we had two doctoral presentations by Parker Ellen and Charn McAllister. Both are looking for possible data sites. Please check out their PowerPoint presentations and contract me if you are at all interested in trying to help out! Baseball We ended our time together with a baseball game against Notre Dame. The Noles did win in extra innings!! Fall 2013 October 24-25, 2013 Thursday – October 24th We had a wonderful cocktail reception and dinner at the Hyatt Miami at The Blue. We had wonderful discussions, great sushi hors d’oeuvres, cocktails, and a lovely dinner under the stars. Tom Shea made a number of wonderful toasts, but perhaps one of the best was to toast Patricia Costoya who was a recent FSU HR graduate, interned with Tom over the summer, and was recently hired by one of our newest board members, Mike Estrada, from Ingram Micro. The system seems to be working! Friday – October 25th Attendance (going right to left around the room) George Boué, Ken Finneran, Mitch Kramer, Mike Estrada, Amparo Bared, Maria Boykin, David Buchsbaum, Pam Perrewé, Mark Krauss, Tom Shea, Janet Wincko, Suzanne Calfee, Charles Johnson, David Faulkenberry, Parker Ellen, Jim Acton, and Deb Armstrong Our meeting was held at Hellmann Worldwide Logistics in Doral, FL. Ken Finneran was our host and we cannot thank him enough. He provided breakfast, lunch, and a very interesting tour of Hellmann. Thanks, Ken! We had three speakers who were all outstanding. Our first speaker, David Buchsbaum from Fisher & Phillips law firm, discussed the intricacies of overtime pay for employees. Every one of us had our eyes wide open with some of the important legal interpretations of the laws (which most of us were unaware)! Our second speaker was our own Ken Finneran. If you have never heard Ken speak, he is very energetic, bright, and funny. Some of us learned new terms like VUCA. He has some wonderful ways to help organizations innovate as well as keep the messages of the organization salient by periodically firing off “boosters” to employees. View his presentation. Our final speaker was Parker Ellen who is in the dissertation stage of his doctoral program at FSU. He discussed a concept near and dear to many of us – leader political skill. He sought examples of how top leaders can help their employees through the use of political skill. Again, another great presentation. The business meeting was conducted by Tom Shea and he suggested that we kick off our spring, 2014 meeting with a strategic planning session. Our next meeting will be in Tallahassee on April 3-4. Please mark your calendars!! If any of you are able to stay over Friday night (April 4th), I am planning on getting a suite to watch FSU take on Notre Dame in baseball. Spring 2013 Spring 2013 April 26, 2013 Attendance Pat Chaffin, Micki Kacmar, Bill Anthony, Wayne Hochwarter, Jerry Ferris, Randy Blass, Stanley Bloom, Jim Acton, Tim Kinney, Deb Armstrong, Tom Shea, Pam Perrewé, Mark Krauss, Kurt Adler, Janet Wincko, Charles Johnson, Darren Brooks, Craig Nichols, Ken Finneran, Chad VanIddekinge, Kelsey Anderson, and Barry Anderson Opening Statements Bill Anthony discussed how and why the Center for HRM was developed in 1983. Pam Perrewé presented Bill with a specially designed FSU pen and handed out “legacy” pens for all of the Center for HR members. If you could not attend, your pen will be in the mail soon. Presentations Founding Members and Former Director of our Center share their journeys after Center life. Barry Anderson, Pat Chaffin, and Micki Kacmar all examined their lives after being part of the Center. Barry (and Kelsey) Anderson - Circle of Life. Barry gave a wonderful presentation about his time at FSU and beyond. Pictures are great as are his videos (links below). Kelsey talked about her important work helping vets to transition into the workplace. Please see her website for additional information: www.hireheroesusa.org A Day In The Life: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TfTSSxa957o Chop from GA Tech Game: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SROsuGs2IF0 Pat Chaffin – Some musings from Pat’s. Pat also gave a wonderful presentation as he discussed his life beyond the Center. His insightful conclusions included that some current HR executives seem to be reverting back to “personnel” roles. Micki Kacmar - Life Outside the Seminole Nation. Micki gave a great presentation on her life in Alabama, her chaired position, and how U. of Alabama is evolving (football program does not need to evolve, though)! Chad VanIddekinge – Should we be using Facebook for selection? A study of predictive validity and adverse impact potential. Chad’s empirical research study indicated and found a number of very interesting results (e.g., the majority of recruiters use FB during the selection process at least some of the time). Chad's presentation. SHRM Students Network with our Board: Out undergraduate SHRM students networked with our Center for HR Board members over lunch and asked a host of questions! We also announced the 2013 SHRM scholarship award winner, Andrea Abed. Andrea is a junior at FSU, so you will all have the opportunity to meet her next spring before she graduates. She currently serves as our Student SHRM chapter President and she has an excellent grade point average. Doctoral student presentations followed the luncheon. Rachel Kane-Frieder and Jeremy Mackey presented their dissertation ideas. Rachel Kane-Frieder's presentation Jeremy Mackey's presentation Business Meeting We ended the meeting with our CHRM Business Meeting. Randy Blass discussed FSU’s #1 ranking for the most “Veteran friendly College of Business” in the nation. The importance of veterans to FSU is becoming a focus point for not only COB, but for the entire university. Finally, Ken Finneran(Chief People Officer) – Americas Hellmann Worldwide Logistics has offered to host next year’s CHRM meeting in the Miami area. Thank you, Ken!!! We will be having our fall 2013 meeting on October 24th (afternoon/evening) and October 25th (meeting day). Specifics to follow. Thank you, Ken!! Fall 2012 September 27-28, 2012 Northern Trust Sarasota, FL Thursday, September 27th We had a wonderful two-hour tour of the Ringling Museum (thanks to Joyce Ingram for making the contact). It’s a “must-see” for anyone who visits Sarasota. We had dinner at Marina Jack, which offered amazing food as well as gorgeous views of the water. Friday, September 28th Kurt Adler and his staff did a fabulous job with the food as well as the meeting set-up. We learned much about Northern Trust which is part of why we love it when our CHRM board members host our meetings. Thank you, Kurt. We welcomed our new members: Lisa Krouse, Ken Finneran, Mitch Kramer, and Janet Wincko. Maria Boykin was unable to attend but we will officially welcome her at our spring meeting at FSU. We welcome all of you! We heard four outstanding presentations: Randy Blass, Florida State University Randy discussed the critical role of human resource management and veteran transition into civilian working life. The focus of his talk was on the socialization process necessary to ensure a successful transition. We will be collecting some data on employed (and unemployed) veterans this year and we hope to be able to present some additional insight into this important situation. Tom Shea, Right Management Tom examined the keys to global leadership (i.e., Adapting Socially, Demonstrating Creativity, Even Disposition, Respecting Beliefs, Instilling Trust, and Navigating Ambiguity). The study (see attached PowerPoints as well as the detailed study attached) examined the perceptions of global business leaders across 13 countries regarding which countries had leaders that best personified these “keys” to global leadership. Phil Delaney, President, Sarasota Manatee Region and Marjorie Peter, VP, Wealth Strategist Phil Delaney and Marjorie Peter presented the history of Northern Trust as well as why the culture at Northern Trust has been so enduring. It became very clear that the rich history and strong culture is what helps to keep this company very strong. William Grob, Shareholder, Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart Bill Grob examined the impact of new HR legislation for HR professionals. He discussed current legislative information and its role in HR in an understandable as well humorous fashion. Business Meeting We discussed our upcoming meeting in the spring. It is important to remember that our 2013 meeting will mark the 30th anniversary of the Center for Human Resource Management! If you have any ideas as to how to make our meeting particularly special, please contact Pam Perrewé. Finally, our spring meeting will be held either the last week of March or the first week of April, 2013. MEETING ATTENDANCE Suzanne Calfee - Kaplan University Group Kurt Adler – Northern Trust Joyce Ingram – Florida State University George Boué - Stiles Corporation Tom Shea – Right Management Rueben Stokes - Ryder System, Inc. Jim Acton – Florida Atlantic University David Faulkenberry - FBMC Benefits Management, Inc. Michael Spellman – Sniffen & Spellman, P.A. Mark Krauss - Southern Wine & Spirits Janet Wincko - City Furniture Dan DiDomenico - SPHR, MBA August Toscano - Regions Financial Corporation Brooks O’Hara - Group 1 Automotive Ken Finneran - Hellmann Worldwide Logistics, Inc Mitch Kramer - Octagon Lisa Krouse - FCCI Insurance Group William Grob - Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart Theresa Jones – Northern Trust Pam Perrewé – Florida State University Jerry Ferris – Florida State University Deb Armstrong – Florida State University Randy Blass – Florida State University Spring 2012 Attendance Linda Bond Edwards, Austin Toscano, August Toscano, Rueben Stokes, Joyce Ingram, Sharon Larson, Mark Krauss, Tom Shea, David Faulkenberry, Charles Johnson, Suzanne Calfee, Jim Acton, Michael Spellman, Kurt Adler; Faculty: Deb Armstrong, Pamela Perrewé, Randy Blass, Wayne Hochwarter, Bruce Lamont, Lee Stepina, Atira Charles, Chad VanIddekinge; Doctoral students: Rachel Kane and Jennifer Sexton. Also attending were 8 of our College of Business SHRM students. 8:00am – 8:30am Breakfast in the University Center Grill (6thfloor) and Board Member Introductions 8:30am – 9:00am Randy Blass Overview of the Jim Moran Institute (including our Veteran’s programs). JMI organized around 3 mission elements: Research (e.g., journals, conferences JM Fellows), Education (e.g., business major, certificates student business plans, scholarships, student travel support), and Outreach (e.g., Entrepreneurial Boot Camp for Veterans, Economic Development Forum, Round Table discussion for one-on-one mentoring). 9:00am – 9:45am Bruce Lamont “Managerial Social Deference in Mergers and Acquisitions of Similar-size Firms.” Although there appears to be some disagreement in the literature as to whether or not retaining target managers enhances post acquisition performance (c.f., Cannella & Hambrick, 1993; Very & Lubatkin, 1997), it seems likely that there are contingencies at play (Berg, 2001). The purpose of this study is to isolate an unusual contingency, relative size of the two firms, where retaining target managers is likely to be rather problematic but also very likely to occur, and then to theoretically and empirically identify integration process factors (procedural justice and board involvement) that are likely to make the retained managers more engaged, supportive, and less antagonistic. Blending social deference theory from sociology and procedural justice theory from psychology, we hypothesize that retaining managers from the target firm in mega-mergers has negative performance effects during the integration process and beyond. We also hypothesize that procedural justice, or providing voice to target managers, will positively moderate the performance effects of manager retention. And finally, we posit a positive interaction between procedural justice of retained managers and target board involvement on during integration performance. Our results strongly support the hypotheses. 9:45am – 10:30am Atira Charles “The Role of Racioethnic Identity in Attraction and Willingness to Hire.” In this study, we examine the role of individuals' identification with their racioethnicity as a boundary condition within the similarity-attraction hypothesis. Using a sample of Whites, we examine experimentally whether job applicants are evaluated more or less favorably depending upon the combined effects of (dis)similarity with the applicant and the evaluator's racioethnic identification. Findings indicate that when Whites report low racioethnic identification, they evaluate candidates dissimilar to them (i.e., Blacks) more favorably in terms of both likeability and trust than candidates who are similar to them. When Whites report high racioethnic identification, they evaluate candidates similar to them more favorably in terms of likeability, trust, physical attractiveness, and willingness to hire than candidates who are dissimilar to them. We argue that racioethnic identification is an important boundary condition in the similarity-attraction hypothesis that helps to explain previous mixed results. 10:30am – 10:45am Break 10:45am – 12:00pm Michael Spellman “Today’s NLRB: What Businesses Need To Know About Evolving Developments in a Union and Non-Union Setting” With the election of President Barack Obama in November 2008, most within the labor-management relations community understood there would be significant changes to the nation’s labor laws. Although some changes made their way through the system during the first two years of the Obama administration, developments in 2011 were more dramatic. With the impending departures of two pro-labor members, the Board acted aggressively in its rulemaking and decisions. Additionally, the Board’s Acting General Counsel pursued an expansive agenda, broadening the scope and breadth of activity subjecting employers to liability under the Board’s jurisdiction. The first three months of 2012 have exhibited a continuation of the tone and direction of the Board in 2011, with several critical rules set to take effect at the end of April. 12:00pm – 1:30pm Meet some of our SHRM Students. We had lunch with our FSU SHRM students which included some informal mentoring by our Center for HR Board Members. The winner of the 2011-2012 SHRM scholarship is Katelyn R. Sturt. She received a framed certificate and will receive a $500.00 cash award. 1:30pm – 2:15pm Tour of the Athletic Facilities 2:15pm – 2:45pm Doctoral student presentations (i.e., Rachel Kane; Jen Sexton) Rachel Kane:I presented my dissertation research entitled “Leader Political Skill, Work Relationship Quality, and Multi-target Benefiting Outcomes.” Provided below is a synopsis of my presentation as well as a request for organizational participation with my dissertation data collection efforts. What is my dissertation about? Pictured above is a condensed version of my dissertation model. At the forefront of my model, I suggest that political skill helps to explain the process through which positive work relationships form. Political skill is formally defined as “the ability to effectively understand others at work, and to use such knowledge to influence others to act in ways that enhance one’s personal and/or organizational objectives” (Ferris et al., 2007, p. 331). Political skill is comprised of four components: social astuteness, interpersonal influence, apparent sincerity, and networking ability. Taken together, this combination of skills allows politically skilled individuals to read and comprehend the motivations and desires of others, adapt their behavior to coincide with what is situationally appropriate, appear sincere, well-intentioned, and trustworthy, and forge strong and beneficial alliances with critical others. Thus, this set of skills is thought to have an effect on oneself, as it provides the politically skilled with greater self-confidence, adaptability, and perceived control. In addition, political skill is thought to have a strong influence on others (i.e., subordinates) as leaders in possession of it are thought to appear likable, respectable, trustworthy, authentic, and instrumental to subordinates’ goal pursuits. Further, research indicates that positive leader-subordinate relationships ultimately result in a number of favorable workplace outcomes including those benefiting the leader (e.g., leader effectiveness, increased reputation), subordinate (e.g., job satisfaction, reduced job stress), and organization alike (e.g., reduced turnover intentions, increased organizational commitment). If interested in participating in this study, please contact Rachel at: rek09@my.fsu.edu. You will receive an executive summary about leader political skill and effectiveness from her findings. Jennifer Sexton: My dissertation research focuses on the role of organizational controls in the process of innovation. Innovation is often viewed as an emergent, creative process; however, this seemingly serendipitous process is often dependent on control from within the organization. Firms can control the process of innovation through acquiring and accession human resources (the inputs), managing their interactions (the structure), and by incentivizing and rewarding outcomes (the outputs). By examining the roles that these organizational controls play on the process of innovation, I hope to shed further light on how managers can better facilitate innovation. Your participation in my study would be a great help. I need a manager (or several…any level within the firm) from your organization to fill out a survey. The survey can be filled out online or a paper copy can be provided if requested. An executive summary will be provided detailing the results of my study, and I would be happy to come and speak to your organization if requested. Please contact me at 850-559-3135 (m) or at jcs05n@my.fsu.edu if you are interested or have any additional questions. 2:45pm – 3:30pm Business Meeting with CHRM Board Members We discussed the following: Strategies for Acquiring New Members Locate top companies in Florida and contact HR Director SHRM chapters in Florida Florida Chapters of National Association of HR Professionals – Orlando, Tampa, Jacksonville Alumni Association / COB Development Officer - graduates of FSU Continue dues at $500 for 2013 Fall 2012 Meeting Need volunteers / suggestions for location Potential topics for presentations: Social Media – maybe a panel with different perspectives Generational challenges and knowledge transfer Fall 2011 October 13 and 14, 2011 Thursday – October 13th We had a lovely cocktail reception and wine tasting at Tom and Maureen Shea’s home. The setting was amazing – overlooking their pool and canal, and the weather was perfect for the reception. A special thanks to Mark Krauss and Southern Wine and Spirits for providing the wine and wine-tasting instructions. We all learned much about wine and even received a small bottle of wine as a ‘party favor’! Finally, we (all 29 of us!) enjoyed a great dinner at Café Vico’s Italian restaurant. Friday – October 14th Meeting held at Kaplan University Group Kaplan University hosted our Center for HR meeting and provided a wonderful venue for us. Kaplan provided state-of-the-art technology and great food for us. Speakers Dr. Betty Vandenbosch (Kaplan) explained the philosophy behind Kaplan University and their online teaching system. Kaplan has over 47,000 students and 9,000 faculty members all over the world. Tom Shea (Right Management) spoke on “Talent is the new it” and discussed how our world is changing and we need to realize that people are no longer tied to one organization. This is the “Human Age” and that organizations need to be more proactive about retention and understand how to manage the best and the brightest to compete worldwide. Dr. Randy Blass (Florida State University) joined us via speakerphone and updated everyone on the new efforts by FSU aimed at helping our veterans. FSU will be opening a Center for Veterans Affairs within the next year. Johnny Taylor (President and CEO of the Thurgood Marshall College Fund) generated a discussion about talent acquisition and examined why some of the top talent in the US is going abroad. Johnny brought in wonderful examples from his role as the former Chairman of SHRM and former Head of HR at Paramount Pictures and Blockbuster Entertainment. Tina Thompson spoke about the economic downturn and underemployment. Her work in this area led to a lively discussion about employees who are underemployed. She is planning to conduct her dissertation in this area of study. Business Meeting We decided to reduce our dues to $500.00 (from $1,000.00) next year (2012) as the economy has taken its toll on many of us. Jerry Ferris is donating $5,000.00 out of his research account to our Center for HR fund to help offset this reduction in dues. Dr. Deb Armstrong will be co-director of the Center for HR with Pam. Pam’s new role as Faculty Athletic Representative requires a lot of time and travel, so Deb will be able to take over some of the responsibilities of the Center. Remember to contact Pam (pperrewe@cob.fsu.edu) or Deb (djarmstrong@cob.fsu.edu) if you are in need of a summer intern. We have some SHRM students who would love a paid summer internship. John Wolf will be retiring this year. We wish John and Joan happiness and health in their retirement! Thanks to John for all he has done for our Center. Attendance Stanley Bloom David Faulkenberry Deb Armstrong Jim Acton Tina Thompson John Wolf Pam Perrewé Tom Shea Mark Krauss Michael Spellman George Boué Suzanne Calfee Charles Johnson Craig Nichols Kathryn Fisk Betty Vandenbosch Susan McGregor Johnny Taylor Randy Blass (via conference call) Spring 2011 Thursday – March 24 5:00 – 8:00 p.m. - Cocktails and dinner at the Perrewé and Ferris homestead (Cajun theme). We had local restaurant owners come in and cook in our kitchen for about 35 people. We had a great time! Friday – March 25 Meeting held in Starry Conference Room, College of Business Atira Charles – Assistant Professor at Florida State University presented her work entitled, “The intersection of race and politics: Implications for Human Resource Management." We had a great discussion about the current concerns regarding race and stigmas in organizations. Alan Witt – Professor (University of Houston) and Pat Chaffin – Center for HRM Executive Board presented their work entitled, “Situational Awareness: It is not just important for fighter pilots.” Alan and Pat examined the importance of being aware of every aspect of your situation for effective leadership. Their ideas were thought-provoking and their presentation was interesting as well as funny! PowerPoints will be available soon (they will be worth the wait). We had lunch with Center for HR Board members, faculty and SHRM undergraduate students (Christina Lynch was announced as our 2011 HR scholarship award winner). Lunch included a Q&A with HR Board members and our SHRM students. Deb Armstrong – Associate Professor (Florida State University) presented her work entitled, “Promotions and retention: Barriers to advancement and retention of women in IS.” This stimulated a lot of interest regarding gender in the workplace, work-family issues, and the limited number of women in stereotypically male-dominated professions. Business Meeting with CHRM Board Members and Faculty. We discussed the role of Smart Phone applications in HR (Steve Payne – Management faculty member), the importance of researching incivility in the workplace (Jeremy Brees, doctoral student), venues for future meetings, and our continued vision for our Center. If interested in Smart Phone applications in HR, you can contact Dr. Steven Payne. If you are interested in having one of our doctoral students give you feedback about incivility in your workplace (all survey responses are confidential), you can contact Jeremy Brees at jrb08k@fsu.edu. Attendance Board Members Faculty SHRM student members Kurt Adler Pamela Perrewé Andrea Marquez Stanley Bloom Jerry Ferris Chioma Okoli George Boué Wayne Hochwarter Christina Lynch Lynn Broadhurst Lee Stepina Mariya Freer Suzanne Calfee Deb Armstrong Ezechiel Dezine Patrick Chaffin Atira Charles David Faulkenberry Randy Blass Kathryn Fisk Alan Witt (Guest Speaker - University of Houston) Joyce A. Ingram Mark Krauss Charles Johnson Tom Shea Michael Spellman John Wolf Fall 2010 October 7th and 8th, 2010 American Express 777 American Expressway Fort Lauderdale, FL Thursday – October 7th It was a beautiful evening as we cruised along the inter-coastal waterway! Many thanks to Bill Mahoney (Mahoney and Associates) for graciously providing the BottomLine yacht. Tom Shea (Right Management) arranged for all of us to dine at the lovely Fort Lauderdale Yacht Club and Mark Krauss (Southern Wine and Spirits) provided some outstanding wine for everyone. Friday – October 8th Meeting hosted by Charles Johnson at American Express. Charles’ associates provided a wonderful venue for our Fall 2010 meeting! They arranged for breakfast, a meeting space, lunch, and a tour of American Express. Wonderful facility with outstanding HR practices! Speakers George Boué – Going Green and Organizational Performance. George (Stiles Corporation) discussed the importance of sustainability and corporate responsibility to the environment. Specifically, he examined the question; can promoting green initiatives and certifying the workplace as green increase productivity? A review of scientific literature and studies indicate quite conclusively that the answer is yes on productivity, but the challenge is in quantifying said increases into profit. Mahoney and Associates – Perspectives and Future Directions in Healthcare. We had two outstanding speakers discussing the ramifications of the new healthcare initiatives. Karla Nickell and Debra Lage presented timely and interesting material on the impact of the new healthcare legislation on organizations. Karla is the Chief Operating Officer and Debra is Senior Director, Health & Welfare Plan Services for Mahoney & Associates. Stanley Bloom – The Global Human Resource Perspective. Stanley (Chubb & Son) presented fascinating information (along with some great stories) on the challenges of human resource management in a global environment. Stanley’s vast global HR experiences provided the backdrop to an extremely interesting presentation. Meeting Attendance Board members Faculty Jim Acton Deb Armstrong Stanley Bloom Randy Blass George Boué Atira Charles Stephen Cerrone Jerry Ferris Pat Chaffin Pam Perrewé Mark Krauss Craig Nichols Tom Shea John Wolf title-inside title-centered 2 Campus Map News Committed to Inclusivity Directory College Calendar For Faculty & Staff Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Request Graduate Programs Info Contact the Webmaster Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Inside FSUBiz Address 821 Academic Way, Tallahassee, FL 32306-1110 | Phone 850-644-3090 | Fax 850-644-0915 Copyright © 2022, Florida State University - College of Business, All Rights Reserved. Accredited by AACSB International. Select languageSelect LanguageEnglishAfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBengaliBosnianBulgarianCatalanCebuanoChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)CroatianCzechDanishDutchEsperantoEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekGujaratiHaitian CreoleHausaHebrewHindiHmongHungarianIcelandicIgboIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseJavaneseKannadaKhmerKoreanLaoLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseMaoriMarathiMongolianNepaliNorwegianPersianPolishPortuguesePunjabiRomanianRussianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSomaliSpanishSwahiliSwedishTamilTeluguThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddishYorubaZulu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media