Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Online Master of Energy Business Program Experience Master of Energy Business awarded AAPL accreditation Alumni MEB alumni share program's value, benefits > School of Energy Economics, Policy and Commerce > Online Master of Energy Business Program https://youtu.be/g9rChBA6aRY ENERGY ECONOMICS, POLICY AND COMMERCE Undergraduate Programs Master of Energy Business Online Veterans in Energy Research & Outreach Faculty News Contact the Department Request Information More than an MBA The online Master of Energy Business degree program is designed for working energy professionals with backgrounds in business, engineering, geosciences, law and related disciplines who are seeking to advance their careers in the energy industry. Centered in the heart of energy-rich Oklahoma, this energy master’s degree blends sound business principles and practices generally found in an MBA program with contemporary energy issues and perspectives to create an energy focused professional educational experience. U.S. News & World Report rank the program among the top online graduate business programs (excluding online MBA programs) in the country. Courses approved for AAPL Recertification Credits for CPL/RPL/RL Designation 〉Program requirements in the Course Bulletin Program Objectives The students completing the Master of Energy Business program will: synthesize the interrelationships among the main business, scientific and technical functions of contemporary energy companies. evaluate the relationships between energy policy, governmental regulation, technological innovation, evolving markets, and corporate environmental sustainability as they relate to the energy sector. conduct analyses to critically assess operational and strategic decisions by energy companies. Typical Degree Plans The Master of Energy Business is designed to be completed in 24 months. Typically, students enroll in four credit hours during their first semester, and then enroll in six credit hours for each of the next five terms (fall, spring, summer). While some students choose to spread the coursework over a longer period time, the majority follow this schedule. Because the MEB is not a full-time, on-campus program, students are not permitted to take more than seven credit hours per term except in rare cases involving extenuating circumstances. Students can enter the program in August, January or May and can expect to complete the degree in 24 months. Academic advisors should be consulted at all points along the way. Although the degree plan for each individual may vary, each degree plan also includes participation in the two required residency seminars. Admission Criteria It is preferred, but not required, that applicants have an undergraduate degree in a discipline that is complementary to energy business (e.g., engineering, geosciences, business, economics). The application package should include: Professional resume indicating career progression Transcripts from all colleges and universities previously attended Two professional letters of recommendation (one from a supervisor, the second a professional or academic reference) Essay presenting the applicant’s career objectives and reasons for pursuing the degree (submitted as part of the online Graduate School application) Acceptable TOEFL score for international students Additional supporting materials that indicate the applicant’s expertise, experience, and promise for success All applicants will be considered. However, if admitted, those without the necessary academic background and experience may be required to complete additional leveling courses before enrollment. Interviews may be requested to evaluate candidates’ credentials fully. Additional application information may be found here. For more information email grad@utulsa.edu or call 918-631-2336. Accreditation AACSB International All programs offered within the Collins College of Business are fully accredited by AACSB International, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, and have been since 1949. AACSB provides internationally recognized, specialized accreditation for business and accounting programs at the bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral level. AACSB Accreditation is known worldwide as the hallmark of excellence in business education. Less than five percent of the world’s business schools are accredited. AAPL The Master of Energy Business is one of only three post-baccalaureate programs accredited by the American Association of Professional Landmen (AAPL). Established in 1956, AAPL serves as the voice of the landman profession and continually seeks to foster industry cooperation through proactive legislative advocacy. With over 16,000 members nationwide, AAPL provides training, education, and certification, works closely with the public to advance oil and gas interests, promotes ethical standards, and advocates for policies and practices that ensure the continued success of US energy needs. Click here to learn more about AAPL-accredited programs: https://www.landman.org/professional-development/education/accredited-programs. AAPL Recertification Credit Graduates of the Master of Energy Business program who work as professional landmen and who possess a professional designation (CPL, RPL, RL) from the American Association of Professional Landmen (AAPL) may receive credit towards recertification for completing the MEB. A request for recertification credit can only be made after graduation, and individuals have 30 days after completing the program to submit the request. All requests must include an Individual Application for Recertification Credits and an official copy of the graduate’s transcript from The University of Tulsa indicating completion of the degree. Additional information can be found at https://www.landman.org/education/certification. Individuals may also contact Joanne Stoy, AAPL Certification Coordinator, at 817-231-4555. Instructional Format The Master of Energy Business is delivered in a technology-enriched online instructional format. Full lectures (audio and video) plus other course materials are available on-demand, and instructors and students routinely communicate via contemporary electronic media. Live sessions are periodically conducted via web conferencing, allowing instructors, guest speakers, and students to communicate directly. Students receive the same instruction and complete the same kinds of assignments as they would in a traditional graduate classroom setting using communication facilities and technologies that are already familiar to them on-the-job. Students also participate in two executive-style weekend seminars, called residency seminars, conducted over the course of the program on The University of Tulsa campus. Courses are taught by seasoned, full-time faculty from across the university who have direct energy company experience, along with industry practitioners and other experts. Students may enter the program in the fall, spring or summer. Typical enrollment is two courses per semester (fall, spring, summer) year-round, with completion in 24 months, although some students prefer to take the summers off. Curriculum The curriculum contains a mix of graduate management courses and classes that are more specific to the energy industry. Some of the same classes that are found in a traditional MBA are included, but with a distinct energy focus. The program consists of 10 required courses plus two electives, representing a total of 34 credit hours. Students may judiciously choose electives in order to specifically concentrate on energy law and regulation, energy economics/finance or strategic energy operations management. Some of the electives are periodically provided through alliances with other universities located internationally, permitting students to add an international flavor to their programs. With a strong interdisciplinary curriculum reflecting the most recent industry recommendations about professional competencies for the future, the Master of Energy Business presents a comprehensive view of the energy industry and delivers the knowledge and skills necessary to address its management, leadership, and decision-making challenges in the 21st century. Required Courses Perspectives in Energy Business Leading and Managing Energy Organizations Analytical Tools for Energy Business Management (project management, decision analysis, enterprise resource planning systems) Energy Accounting and Financial Reporting Financial Management in the Energy Enterprise Legal and Regulatory Environment of the Energy Industry Energy Policy and Sustainability Management of the Energy Supply Chain The Business of Renewable Energy and Alternative Fuels Energy Economies Electives (Select Two) Energy Markets and Commodities Trading US Oil and Gas Law Energy Transactions in the International Arena Economic Evaluation of Energy Assets Energy Outlook 2030 Global Energy Decisions International Energy Markets The Electric Utility Industry and Demand Side Management Current Topics in Upstream-Midstream-Downstream Energy Operations Critical Issues for the Energy Industry Energy Logistics and Transportation Management The Refining and Petrochemicals Business Comparative Management Strategy in Energy Corporations Energy Risk Modeling Directed Research in Energy Business Seminar in Energy Business Course Descriptions For degree requirements, see the academic bulletin. The Master of Energy Business curriculum contains a mix of graduate management courses and classes specific to the energy industry. The program consists of 10 required courses plus two electives, for a total of 34 credit hours. Students may judiciously choose electives in order to specifically concentrate on energy law and regulation, energy economics/finance, or strategic energy operations management. Master of Energy Business Course Descriptions Program Highlights The Master of Energy Business program trains business professionals to become strong managers, problem solvers and idea generators so they can add value to their companies and the industry. In an emerging energy landscape that encompasses traditional oil and gas markets plus hydropower, wind, solar, nuclear and other energy alternatives, the Master of Energy Business degree provides the breadth of business knowledge and skills that energy professionals need to address changing and expanding industry needs. It is the only program of its kind in Oklahoma and the surrounding region. Highlights of TU’s Master of Energy Business program include: Nationally ranked Market-driven, reflecting industry recommendations More focused than a traditional MBA Online delivery to accommodate the schedules of working professionals Competitively priced 9 required courses plus two electives (34 credit hours), with no thesis Three entry points: fall, spring and summer Year-round enrollment available with a maximum of two courses per term (fall, spring, summer) Designed for degree completion in 24 months Interdisciplinary curriculum, with practical and applied course content that is totally energy-focused Three possible focus areas: energy law and regulation, energy economics/finance, and corporate strategy and commercial operations management Opportunity to take international energy business courses through partner alliances around the world Based in the nationally ranked Collins College of Business at The University of Tulsa located in Tulsa, Oklahoma – the heartland of America’s energy industry – the Master of Energy Business program leverages a unique mix of resources that is unmatched at other universities, including: McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering, one of the preeminent programs of its kind in the world Energy Law Journal, a joint publication of The University of Tulsa College of Law and the Energy Bar Association in Washington, DC Highly regarded programs in petroleum geosciences and chemical engineering The Tulsa Institute of Alternative Energy Numerous close ties with energy partners A rich energy heritage within the Tulsa community, home to numerous energy companies and organizations Industry Relations With a distinctive program and format, The University of Tulsa’s Master of Energy Business continues to attract significant interest from individuals and organizations throughout the energy industry. Unlike a traditional MBA, the Master of Energy Business is completely focused on energy, energy companies and energy issues that are relevant in today’s economy. With the flexibility that online delivery provides, the Master of Energy Business is a perfect vehicle for individuals from all sectors of the industry to extend their knowledge base and professional network and to enhance their competitiveness in the marketplace. The Master of Energy Business, housed in the School of Energy Economics, Policy and Commerce, enjoys strong support from energy companies and organizations around the country. Faculty and staff regularly attend industry-sponsored professional conferences and participate in events of mutual interest. In addition, energy companies repeatedly seek input from our faculty as consultants and collaborators on policy issues and research projects that are important to the ongoing success of the industry. Residency Seminar Many online professional masters degree programs require students to fulfill some type of residency requirement, and the Master of Energy Business is no different. Since participants in online programs have little or no other on-campus contact with faculty and staff, residency programs provide an opportunity for students to engage one another and their university contacts in a face-to-face setting that facilitates more effective communication and problem solving throughout the educational experience. Participants develop closer ties to the campus and its physical presence, get to know their professors on a personal basis, and become more familiar with the various staff and support services they provide. While universities use various models for residency programs, the Master of Energy Business degree requires students to participate in two separate sessions referred to as Residency Seminar I and Residency Seminar II. The two seminars are each roughly three days in length, generally scheduled over a Thursday, Friday, and Saturday timeframe. They are executive-style continuing education forums that provide a relaxing, yet thought-provoking and career-enhancing, educational environment. Both seminars encompass current topics of a co-curricular nature that are not ordinarily addressed in the regular course curriculum, and energy related site visits or field trips may also be included. Residency Seminar I occurs in mid-August every year, right before the start of the fall semester. Doubling as orientation to graduate school at The University of Tulsa, Residency Seminar I always takes place on the campus and at various other venues in and around the Tulsa community. The agenda often includes a focus on teamwork, collaboration, and communication from an energy industry perspective and provides an introduction to the online/virtual learning environment. Residency Seminar II occurs each spring. Leadership development is the overall focus of Residency Seminar II, which often includes additional sessions on business strategy, entrepreneurship, deal making, negotiations and career planning. In addition, Residency Seminar II may involve a formal business simulation activity designed as a capstone experience. Both Residency Seminar I and Residency Seminar II are required zero-credit Master of Energy Business courses. There is no tuition charge, but all students must enroll in and complete both courses in order to graduate. Participants pay their own travel and lodging expenses, but where possible, arrangements are always made for special hotel rates and services. In addition, most meals are provided. While the notion of a residency requirement is not uncommon among online graduate programs, Residency Seminars I and II enhance the distinctiveness of the Master of Energy Business due to their industry focus and professional format. Most participants report them to be among the most memorable and beneficial aspects of their educational experience and point to them as a truly differentiating feature of their training among competing energy MBAs and related degrees. Frequently Asked Questions What’s the job market like in the energy industry? It is no secret that shifts in commodity prices have exerted pressure on the energy labor market across the board. The current cycle is reminiscent of earlier ones that resulted in restricted operational activities and hiring, only to be followed by a period of deficiencies in the labor pool. Significant gaps remain in the age and experience distributions of industry workers at all levels. Younger individuals are entering the industry, but many of the older ones are also near retirement age. Hence, most companies continue to recruit employees with experience, advanced training and specialized skills to plug the employment gaps. In addition, the energy industry has historically been among the top two or three for job growth, and energy industry jobs are among the highest paying. These trends are expected to continue for several years, despite periodic market interruptions, with demand for employees likely to grow as worldwide energy demand increases. It’s still a good time to get into the energy industry, and it is a particularly good time to pursue advanced training that will provide a leg up on the competition. How can this program help me in my career? The primary goal of the Master of Energy Business is to provide the necessary training for individuals who are already employed in the energy industry to move more rapidly into managerial jobs and other positions of corporate leadership and responsibility. Energy companies tend to promote from within; but while the best candidates may have strong technical skills and experience, they often have no formal business training or knowledge of how energy companies work on a more macro level. For individuals who are interested in positioning themselves for enhanced career opportunities, either within their existing companies or with competitors, the Master of Energy Business provides solid, broad-based training in the multi-faceted aspects of energy company operations. Graduates leave with a total system perspective of the energy industry and possess the knowledge and skills they need to flex their careers as the industry evolves. For individuals who are not currently employed by energy companies and who desire to move into the industry, the Master of Energy Business is an excellent mechanism with which to make the transition because of the breadth of training it provides. How is the Master of Energy Business different from an MBA? The Master of Energy Business is a professional graduate program that is distinctly focused on the energy industry. It is not an MBA – it is more. A conventional MBA is typically quite general in coverage, providing knowledge and skills that can be applied to many different industries, including (but not limited to) energy. The curriculum for the Master of Energy Business contains several of the same topics and courses that would be found in a conventional MBA (e.g., management, accounting, and finance), but the material is delivered from a specific context of energy. This information is complemented by concepts, ideas, and issues presented in courses that are more specifically focused on the energy industry itself. The combination provides a targeted educational experience that helps prepare individuals to meet the energy challenges of the 21st century. What is the instructional format of the program? The Master of Energy Business is offered in a technology-enriched, online environment to accommodate the schedules of working professionals. Except for the two residency seminars offered over long weekends in Tulsa, all courses are delivered online. However, the Master of Energy Business is not a self-study program, and the online courses are not correspondence courses. Students still complete the same kinds of assignments found in traditional courses; there is just no physical classroom presence. Students have ready access to full course lectures (both audio and video), along with all other course materials, and they regularly interact among themselves and with the instructor to complete assignments. If anything, there may be more interaction among students and faculty than in a traditional classroom setting. Such interactions are facilitated by contemporary communications technology, social media, computer conferencing, Skype, email, and other mechanisms with which students are already familiar. How long does it take to complete the program? The Master of Energy Business is a 34 credit hour program. Because it is offered in an online environment primarily for working professionals, it is essentially a part-time graduate program. Students enter in the fall, spring or summer and enroll in a maximum of two courses per term year-round (fall, spring, summer). If this schedule is maintained, the program can be completed in 24 months. Of course, students who cannot maintain this schedule should expect the program to take longer to complete. In fact, some students prefer a slower pace or like to take summers off from school activities. Is a thesis required? No. This is a professional masters degree as opposed to a research degree. No thesis or formal capstone project is required. Is the program restricted to those who are currently employed? No. Anyone who has an undergraduate degree and satisfies all other admission requirements can apply to be admitted to the program. However, as noted above, the Master of Energy Business is not a full-time program and there are no on-campus courses. Is there an experience requirement? Yes. Applicants are expected to have a minimum of two years of working experience, preferably in the energy industry. Is the GMAT required? Yes. The GMAT is required. The standardized test requirement may be waived for experienced candidates who can clearly demonstrate post-baccalaureate scholastic achievement through other means such as patents, professional licensures and certifications, refereed publications in industry-specific journals, expert testimony, and documented evidence of career advancement and developing expertise. The evaluation committee looks at every candidate from a holistic perspective, and a standardized test score is just one piece of evidence. It is the applicant’s responsibility to request the waiver and to submit justification in support of the request. The waiver request must be filed no later than June 1 (for fall admittance), November 1 (for spring admittance) or April 1 (for summer admittance). Applicants who already have a graduate degree or a law degree from a qualified university are automatically exempt. Is the program open to students who are just finishing their undergraduate degrees? No. As noted above, the Master of Energy Business is essentially a part-time professional graduate program, with a minimum work experience requirement of two years. Except in rare cases, it is not appropriate for students who are just finishing their undergraduate degrees. What about applicants whose undergraduate degrees are in disciplines that are more traditionally aligned with liberal arts? All applications will be considered. Students who do not have training and/or experience in disciplines that are closely aligned with the energy industry, such as geology and petroleum engineering, may be required to complete leveling courses prior to enrolling in the Master of Energy Business. Depending on individual circumstances, this requirement may be waived for applicants who possess a liberal arts degree but who already have considerable energy industry experience and can document/demonstrate industry knowledge. Are there any other kinds of prerequisites that are required? Some of the courses in the Master of Energy Business are quantitative in nature. Hence, all applicants will be expected to possess background knowledge in economics, mathematics, statistics, information systems and the use of Excel. Candidates without such background knowledge may be required to complete one or more leveling courses prior to enrolling in the program. In what ways can a leveling requirement be satisfied? With prior approval of the director, the leveling requirement may be satisfied in a number of ways, such as: • Completion of traditional classroom courses on the campus of The University of Tulsa or at another university • Completion of online courses offered through The University of Tulsa or another university • Completion of approved commercially-available or industry-sponsored short courses or seminars • Passing a proficiency exam following self-study preparation Individuals who are required to satisfy prerequisites must bear the added cost of such activities. Who teaches in the program? All the courses are taught by seasoned full-time faculty from across The University of Tulsa, many of whom have direct energy company experience, along with industry practitioners and other experts. Instructors from various academic units teach in the program, including the Collins College of Business and the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences. In addition, selected courses may be available through alliances with other universities. The online instructional environment also permits The University of Tulsa to use experts from around the world to enhance the quality of course offerings. How are exams and other kinds of assessments handled in the online instructional environment? The manner in which exams and other assessments are conducted is always at the discretion of the instructor. However, the online instructional environment does pose challenges, particularly when students are geographically located around the world. Computer technology is available to assist instructors in conducting exams and maintaining the integrity of the examination process. At the graduate level, many assessments involve written analysis and reflection rather than short-answer, objective-type questions (e.g., multiple choice). Assessment can also be conducted verbally in the form of online group presentations, development of video presentations that clearly demonstrate authorship, online discussion of group-prepared PowerPoint presentations, and the like. Courses that are more quantitative in nature may require a higher level of skill demonstration, which can also be done in a “live” presentation mode if necessary. Some instructors may require face-to-face or online proctored exams. In these cases, students secure their own proctors or access the specified online facility and pay for all proctoring services. The cost is typically $25-$50 per session. Is the program primarily focused on oil and gas? The University of Tulsa and the community of Tulsa, Oklahoma have a long association with the oil and gas industry. For many years the City of Tulsa was known as the “Oil Capitol of the World,” and it still has a robust energy economy focused on the oil and gas sector. However, it is no secret that the global energy industry is evolving, with rapid diversification into many other sources, even while oil and gas are expected to be the primary drivers for years to come. Consequently, the Master of Energy Business is closely aligned with the oil and gas sector, but the curriculum also reflects the evolving sentiment that other sources of energy must be pursued. The program reflects the philosophy that the energy industry is a total system and must be viewed from that perspective if long-term viability is to be achieved. The curriculum is designed to provide students with knowledge and skills that are transferable across energy sectors, allowing graduates to flex their careers as the industry evolves. What does the program cost? The University of Tulsa charges “regular” tuition for the Master of Energy Business; that is, there is no added premium beyond the tuition rate posted on the website. Because The University of Tulsa is a private school, there is no differentiation between in-state, out-of-state or international tuition. For the 2019 calendar year, the tuition is $1,272 USD per credit hour. The Master of Energy Business is a 34 credit hour degree program; so, at the above rate, the tuition cost would be $43,250 USD spread over two years. Students pay for tuition “as they go,” rather than paying for it all up front. There are the usual instructional expenses, such as the cost of books, but there are no additional fees other than the $55 application fee. There will also be some travel expenses associated with attending two required residency seminars. The best guess at today’s prices is that the total program will cost somewhere between $43,000 and $45,000 USD. If leveling courses are required before enrolling in the program, or if additional work is required in lieu of other program elements, then the total cost will be commensurately higher. Are scholarships or other kinds of financial aid available? Yes, but they are limited. Most scholarship awards are based on academic merit, but we do have some need-based funding available. Also, many students may be able to request at least partial reimbursement for the tuition cost from their employers as an educational benefit, and The University of Tulsa has mechanisms in place to facilitate this process. We encourage you to speak to your employer about this benefit. In addition, support under federal loan programs is available for U.S. students. Contact the university’s financial aid office for more information. Finally, many professional associations regularly provide scholarship funds, and individuals are strongly encouraged to pursue these avenues. Since the program is essentially part-time, how long can someone take to complete it? Because the Master of Energy Business is designed to enhance the career potential of graduates, the greatest potential can be realized if the program can be completed as soon as possible. The typical student will take two courses each term, year-round (fall, spring, summer). As previously noted, if this schedule is maintained, the program can be completed in 24 months. However, students who cannot maintain this schedule should anticipate having to spend more time in the program. Each core course is offered twice per academic year, but most electives are offered less frequently. All students are expected to complete the program within six years from the first date of enrollment. Students who do not make satisfactory progress may be dismissed from the program or asked to re-apply. Are the residency seminars required of all students? Yes. All students are required to participate in the residency seminars. Each student will be expected to attend two executive-style residency seminars offered over a long weekend in Tulsa or at some other center of energy activity (e.g., Houston). Professional master’s degree programs such as this one typically require residencies, and two such residencies completed over the course of a two-year program is a very minimal requirement. The residency seminars also take the place of a thesis requirement. The first residency seminar is conducted over the weekend immediately preceding the first week of fall classes. The second residency seminar occurs each year the Thursday and Friday before commencement. The purpose of the residency seminars is to provide the students with greater access to industry experts and leaders of energy companies. They also provide students with opportunities to interact and network with colleagues and faculty in a face-to-face setting. What costs are associated with attending the residency seminars? Students must pay all transportation, housing and incidental costs associated with attending the residency seminars. Most meals are covered by the Master of Energy Business program, and local transportation is often provided. Special hotel pricing is always available for individuals who can make their arrangements early. The total cost will vary, depending on location. Residency Seminar I is always held in Tulsa, whereas Residency Seminar II rotates among different cities (e.g., Houston, Dallas, Denver). What kind of technology is required and what are the technology literacy needs for students? All students need to have access to a relatively new laptop computer with sufficient memory and hard drive space to hold/process moderately large data files. Reliable and continuous access to high speed Internet service is also required. The latest version of Microsoft Office should be installed on the computer (no earlier than 2007), along with Java and Microsoft Silverlight. At a minimum, students should be very proficient in the use of Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, and should have a strong working knowledge of file creation and manipulation in these software environments under the Windows operating system. Access to a tablet device, such as an iPad, is a plus. Some courses will require the use of special software, and some software may not be compatible with Apple devices. Information about such products will be communicated at the appropriate time. Students should also be familiar with contemporary social media and communications technology, such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Skype, and they should be able to create videos using YouTube or a similar product. Other capabilities may be required for individual courses. Students who do not possess strong Excel skills may be required to complete additional training prior to enrollment. Can courses completed at other universities be transferred to The University of Tulsa and used as electives for the program? The University of Tulsa will accept up to six hours of transfer credit for a masters degree. However, permission to transfer the credit must be obtained in advance from the program director to insure the prior work is applicable. All policies of the Graduate School at The University of Tulsa pertaining to transfer credit apply. These policies are published in the Graduate Bulletin. Candidates are strongly encouraged to review the policies in advance. I am already enrolled in another graduate program at The University of Tulsa. Can I change to the Master of Energy Business? Maybe. While it may be possible to change programs, it must be understood that the Master of Energy Business is a part-time program offered online. Changing degree programs may also add to the time needed to graduate. The decision really depends on the actual courses that have already been completed and whether or not there is a good match with those required in the Master of Energy Business. Inquiries of this nature should be directed to the director. What kinds of jobs are available to graduates of the Master of Energy Business program? Most students pursuing the Master of Energy Business will already be employed, many of them in some sector of the energy industry. Their intent for pursuing the degree is to expand their opportunities for advancement within the current companies or to move to a position of increased responsibility in a competitor company. Hence, many of the jobs into which graduates will migrate will be supervisory or managerial in nature. Others will involve very specialized business functions that require strong analytical, planning, development, communication, and strategic decision making skills. The ultimate goal of the Master of Energy Business is to propel graduates into leadership positions that can support continued corporate growth and security. What is the weekly time commitment for each course? All courses in the Master of Energy Business curriculum are regular semester-long courses. As such, students should expect to have at least three hours of “seat” time per week as if they were in a regular on-campus course. This “seat” time encompasses lectures and other activities that the instructor would normally lead. Students should also expect to spend at least the same amount of time outside of class reading, studying the material, completing assignments, taking quizzes, etc. Most students report that their total time commitment averages about 10 hours per course per week. How often are individual courses offered? Currently, all core courses (required) are offered twice every calendar year. Most electives are offered less frequently. In what language are the courses taught? All Master of Energy Business courses are taught only in English. All students are expected to be proficient in English listening, reading and writing skills. Our Alumni One of the most important segments of any university community is its alumni. The University of Tulsa has a particularly extensive network of graduates and alumni serving all sectors of the energy industry around the globe. From petroleum reservoir management in the Middle East to refining on the Texas Gulf Coast to power generation in California, TU’s alumni touch almost every aspect of the global energy economy. Like other programs at TU, the Master of Energy Business program has produced some truly outstanding graduates. MEB alumni are putting their own mark on the constantly evolving energy landscape, both in the US and abroad. Our graduates serve in a variety of roles as part of the professional workforce in all kinds and sizes of energy companies, from major oil and gas corporations to small independent explorers and producers to renewables companies and electric utility providers. Companies represented by MEB alumni and students include: Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADCO) Laredo Petroleum, Inc. Akzo Nobel Linn Energy Apache Corporation Live Oak Resource Partners Aramco Services Maha Energy Atalaya Resources Matrix Service Avra Oil Company McLinn Land Services Azure Midstream Memorial Resource Development Company Baker Hughes, Inc. Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO) Bank of Oklahoma / BOK Financial Murex Petroleum Bluebonnet Resources Group Mustang Gas Products LLC Bluestone Natural Resources NASA Glenn Research Center FANS Brietburn Energy Nextera Energy Cabot Oil and Gas Noble Energy, Inc. Callidus Technologies OneGas Inc. Callon Petroleum Operating Company Parallel Energy Centerpoint Energy Perdue Farms Charter Oak Permian Resources Cimarex Energy Pioneer Energy Services Concho Oil and Gas QEP Resources ConocoPhillips Ridgeway Strategic Consulting Corterra Energy LLC RIM Operating, Inc. Crestwood Midstream Partners LP Ripple Rock Resources Crownquest Operating LLC Saltus Technologies LLC Donner Properties SemGroup Dorchester Resources Seneca Companies Dover Energy Shadow Creek Energy Dresser-Rand Siemens Enable Midstream Partners Site Improvement Associates EQT Corporation Slalom Consulting Excalibur Resources LLC SM Energy FieldView Capital Advisors, LLC Southwestern Energy Company Finley Resources State of North Dakota, Minerals Management Frac Tech Services International, LLC Suizer Freese and Nichols Tana Exploration Company GMT Exploration Company, LLC Tennessee Valley Authority Guzman Energy LLC The University of Tulsa Harvard Management Company Timberline Acquisitions LLC Helmerich & Payne TKO Energy Services, LLC HollyFrontier Oil Corporation Towerhouse Business Group Hunter Energy Corporation TurnKey Industries Huntley & Huntley S. Department of Justice Husky Energy Unit Corporation Inflection Energy LLC Venado Kaiser-Francis Oil Company Walmart Kilgore LLC Woolsey Operating Company Kosmos Energy WPX Energy XTO Energy 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT