Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Marketing Undergraduate Programs Alumni Chocolate as a changemaker Alumni Success unwrapped > Department of Management, Marketing, and International Business > Marketing Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/OBtmDOUZkAU MANAGEMENT, MARKETING & INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS Management Undergraduate Programs Marketing Undergraduate Programs International Business & Language Undergraduate Programs Studio Blue Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Marketing professionals solve a fundamental problem — how to connect a product or service to its customers. In a marketplace crowded with millions of messages, ideas must be innovative to grab the attention of consumers. Marketing majors develop communication, problem solving and critical thinking skills in the classroom and have opportunities to gain hands-on experience with real-world clients. Marketing professionals listen to the needs and desires of consumers, and then develop goods and services for the marketplace and the systems to promote and distribute those goods and services. Marketing students combine marketing knowledge, analytical and creative problem-solving skills, an interest in people and a tolerance for the constantly shifting marketplace. Those with an affinity for creativity, strategy and teamwork will work alongside an encouraging faculty in the marketing program at The University of Tulsa. Students in the marketing program gain practical experience in the classroom by interacting with local businesses to develop case studies, collect market data, analyze a company’s marketing strategy and develop recommendations. Studio Blue, TU’s creative greenhouse, encourages innovation and problem solving in a free-flowing environment equipped with mobile furniture, magnetic and dry-erase walls, a viewing room for focus groups and other brainstorming tools. Marketing students can also participate in internships that involve working in either for-profit or not-for-profit organizations for course credit. Internships are considered an integral part of a students’ education. To expand opportunities in an increasingly international marketplace, the Collins College of Business offers an international business minor. The international business minor combines internationally oriented business courses with the level of business sophistication and cultural sensitivity needed to succeed in a diverse global marketplace. Program Objectives Students completing the Marketing, B.S.B.A. major will: be well-grounded in marketing theory and concepts. develop critical and creative thinking skills. develop their written and verbal skills. Program Options Marketing, B.S.B.A. The marketing major equips students with cutting-edge concepts in marketing and provides the opportunity to develop creative problem-solving and communications skills. The program prepares students to serve as leaders in the marketing and sales departments of domestic and international firms through hands-on, real-world projects. Global Supply Chain Management – Focuses on global supply chain logistics, operations, design and administration. Digital Marketing and Analytics – Students will learn how to analyze marketing data to help make decisions about market segmentation and target market selection; new product and service development; product positioning; and allocation of marketing mix expenditures to accomplish objectives. Marketing Minor The marketing minor may be pursued by any student who wishes to develop their expertise in marketing beyond that which is required for their major field of study. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation Foreign Language Foreign Language Business Calculus Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience Basic Calculus Math Analysis and Applications Block II – Historical & Social Interpretation Business Information Technology Block III – Scientific Investigation SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Macroeconomics (Block II) Microeconomics (Block II) Concepts in Accounting Information I Concepts in Accounting Information II Statistics I Statistics II Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Legal Environment of Business Block III – Scientific Investigation Block II – Historical & Social Interpretation JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Business Finance Organization and Management Principles of Marketing Introduction to CIS Operations Management Consumer Behavior General Education Elective General Education Elective Free Elective Marketing Elective SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Marketing Research Marketing Management Writing for the Professions Marketing Elective Marketing Elective General Education Elective (upper division) Marketing Internship Administration Policy and Decision Making General Education Elective Free Elective (upper level) Free Elective (upper level) 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT