Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business School of Finance and Operations Management Experiential Learning Get set for the Investment Portfolio Challenge 918-631-3625 Helmerich Hall, 118 Map Email https://youtu.be/PQ6acdJHD4A FINANCE & OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT Finance Undergraduate Programs Friends of Finance Student Investment Fund Faculty News Contact the Department Real Estate Career and Internship Fair April 19 / 5 p.m. – 7 p.m. / Helmerich Hall 121 Join us to meet with Real Estate industry professionals that have career opportunities available. Learn more more about this event. Please register by April 15 to participant in this event. Employer Registration Student Registration A finance degree from The University of Tulsa is designed to educate students in all areas of business — accounting, economics, international business, management, marketing, and computer information systems — because the finance profession involves interaction with all of these areas. Courses are offered in the areas of corporate finance, investments, portfolio management, financial institutions, and personal finance. A Student Investment Fund of more than $7,000,000 provides students with the opportunity to manage a portfolio of real money. More than 190 students currently major in finance. CFA Recognized Program In October 2015, The University of Tulsa was welcomed into the CFA Institute University Recognition Program. TU is the first university in the state of Oklahoma to have a CFA® recognized program. The organization offers the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation. The BSBA degree with a major in finance has been acknowledged as incorporating at least 70 percent of the CFA Program Candidate Body of Knowledge (CBOK) and placing emphasis on the CFA Institute Code of Ethics and Standards of Professional Conduct within the program. This program positions students to obtain the Chartered Financial Analyst® designation, which has become the most respected and recognized investment credential in the world. Entry into the CFA Institute University Recognition Program signals to potential students, employers and the marketplace that TU’s curriculum is closely tied to professional practice and is well suited to preparing students to sit for the CFA examinations. Through participation in this program, The University of Tulsa is eligible to receive a limited number of student scholarships for the CFA Program each year. Full-time TU students interested in taking the Level I June exam should fill out and return this form. The CFA program includes a series of three exams (Levels I, II and III). The CFA credential is the globally recognized mark of distinction and benchmark for measuring expertise, experience and ethics of investment professionals. To become a CFA Charterholder, candidates must pass all three levels and obtain four years of qualified work experience. There are 140 local member societies in 65 countries. The Oklahoma Society holds monthly meetings in Tulsa and Oklahoma City. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT