Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected MyCBS Class Notes In Memoriam Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Domestic Clubs International Clubs Affinity Clubs Club Leader Resources Events and Speakers Marketing Geographic Profiles Additional Club Leader Resources Young Alumni Board 2020-2021 Young Alumni Board Young Alumni Resources Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources Self-Assessment Research Professional Branding Networking Interviewing & Managing Offers Professional Development Media Library Job Opportunities CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving 1916 Society Centennial Partners Student Relief Fund Hermes Society Recurring Gifts Second Century Circle Student Philanthropy Major Giving Student Financial Aid Manhattanville Campus Faculty and Research Support Founders' Pledge Program Support Planned Giving Invest in Your Future International Giving Events Events Calendar Recognition Reception Photos Reunion News More Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Alumni Clubs Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Career Management Support the School Events News Research and Insights Explore insights, publications, and initiatives around women in business. Ideas and Insights from CBS Gender Inequality and Entrepreneurship Research: Anticipating That Others Prefer Men Leads to Gender Bias in Networking Necessary but Not Sufficient Not All Discrimination Is Obvious Are Gender Differences Just Power Differences in Disguise? Wage Transparency Works: Reduces Gender Pay Gap by 7 Percent Visit Leading Through Change for further information on current business and social trends. Faculty in the News Modupe Akinola: Stereotypes Harm Black Lives and Livelihoods, but Research Suggests Ways to Improve Things. Management researcher Modupe Akinola explains on how stereotypes hurt Black Americans and what we can do to counter them. Modupe Akinola: Women Are Less Likely to Delegate Than Men—and That Might Hurt Their Careers. When women don’t delegate, they have less time for big-picture work and mentoring. The late Katherine W. Phillips: A Seat at the Head of the Table. From the 1970s into the ’90s, women made serious progress in the workplace. Then that progress stalled, especially at the top. The late Katherine W. Phillips: College-Educated Women Are the Workplace Majority, but Still Don’t Get Their Share. Women in the U.S. have earned more degrees for decades, but it wasn’t until this year that they edged out college-educated men in the work force. Though they still make a lot less money. Daniel Wolfenzon: Gender Pay Gaps Shrink When Companies are Required to Disclose Them. Government-mandated reporting of gender pay discrepancies has been a subject of much debate in the last 5-10 years. Those arguing for legislation… Michael Johannes: Mind the gap: Business schools help women break the glass ceiling. There are plenty of female finance graduates, but few make it to senior positions. Mabel Abraham: From Inclusion to Support: How to Build a Better Workplace. At the New Rules Summit, participants working in groups proposed changes to create equitable environments in the workplace. Here are the topics, quotations from group leaders and takeaways. Sheena Iyengar: The Netflix Effect At Work? How Can Leaders Conquer Decision Paralysis? When tackling a tough decision, leaders should rely on a basic framework that asks: What are we trying to accomplish? Which decision achieves that, while also remaining true to our core values? Faculty Publications Scaling Big in India: Leveraging Behavioral Science to Help Feed Millions, Gita Venkataramani Johar, Shilpa Madan & K. Ganesh. Stanford Social Innovation Review, August 2020. The Demotivating Effects of Communicating a Social-Political Stance: Field Experimental Evidence from an Online Labor Market Platform, Vanessa Burbano. Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences, June 2020. Gender Differences in Preferences for Meaning at Work, Vanessa Burbano, Nicolas Padilla, Stephan Meier. IZA - Institute of Labor Economics, March 2020. Are Women More Creative Than Men? The Gendered Effects of Networks and Genres on Musical Creativity, Michael Mauskapf, Noah Askin, Sharon Koppman, Brian Uzzi. February 2020. Why East Asians but not South Asians are underrepresented in leadership positions in the United States, Jackson G. Lu, Richard E. Nisbett, and Michael W. Morris. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, February 2020. Congruence between Leadership Gender and Organizational Claims Affects the Gender Composition of the Applicant Pool: Field Experimental Evidence, Vanessa Burbano and Mabel Abraham. Social Science Research Network, June 2019. Diversity thresholds: How social norms, visibility, and scrutiny relate to group composition, Modupe Akinola. Academy of Management Journal, February 2019. Do Firms Respond to Gender Pay Gap Transparency? Daniel Wolfenzon, Morten Bennedsen, Elena Simintzi, Margarita Tsoutsoura National Bureau of Economic Research, January 2019. Women's work: Remembering communal goals, Moulton, E., JaeBin Ahn, E.L. Haines, and Malia Mason. Motivation Science, 2019. To delegate or not to delegate: Gender differences in affective associations and behavioral responses to delegation, Akinola, M., *Martin, A., & Phillips, K. Academy of Management Journal, February 2018. Pursuing Quality: How Search Costs and Uncertainty Magnify Gender-based Double Standards in a Multistage Evaluation Process. Mabel Abraham. Administrative Science Quarterly, 2017. Understanding the MBA Gender Gap: Women Respond to Gender Norms by Reducing Public Assertiveness but Not Private Effort, Wallen, A. S., Morris, M. W., Devine, B. A., & Lu, J. G. Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, 2017. Gender Gap in Entrepreneurship, Guzman, Jorge and Aleksandra (Olenka) Kacperczyk. 2016 It's good to be the Queen… but it's easier being the King, Galinsky, Adam, and M. Schweitzer. McKinsey Quarterly, October 2015 Structural Equality at the Top of the Corporation: Mandated Quotas for Women Directors, Kogut, Bruce, Mariano Belinky, and Jordi Colomer. Strategic Management Journal, June 2014 Ethnic diversity, gender, and national leaders. Journal of International Affairs, Phillips, Katherine, Susan Perkins, and Nicholas Pearce Journal of International Affairs, 2013. CBS Women Spotlights Explore the talent, expertise, and wisdom of the women’s network at Columbia Business School. Hear from Leading Alumnae and Faculty Explore the talent, expertise, and wisdom of the women’s network at Columbia Business School. Barbara Corcoran on Diversity in Leadership: Entrepreneur, author, and Shark Tank investor Barbara Corcoran on the importance of building diverse teams. Making an impact with Maryam Banikarim ’93, Executive in Residence, Columbia School of Professional Studies: Maryam Banikarim ’93, former Hyatt Global CMO, shares insights on making an impact and work/life balance. Professor Rita McGrath, Power Dynamics for Women in Leadership: Professor Rita McGrath discusses how women in leadership roles can exert power with skill by identifying and leveraging their scarce and valuable resources. Deborah Jackson ’80, founder and CEO of Plum Alley, on the importance of women’s networks: Deborah Jackson ’80, founder and CEO of Plum Alley, takes about the importance of women’s networks and knowing who you are at the June 2019 Women’s Circle Breakfast. Women's Initiatives at CBS: View key discussions, panels, and highlights on the Women’s Initiatives at CBS Youtube channel. Columbia Voices Hear from CBS female faculty, alumnae, and students How to Stress Better: Professor Modupe Akinola How Organizations Can Achieve Gender Parity in the C-Suite: Professor Rita McGrath Helping Children to Learn, Grow, and Lead: Phoebe Boyer ’93 Improving Managerial Decisions with Data: Professor Jing Dong Beating Your Last Best ScoreL Anna Rawson ’15 The Business of Broadway: Halle Morse ’20 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions