Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Accounting Undergraduate Programs My TU Story Accounting major finds endless opportunities at TU My TU Story Internships solidify accounting major’s career path > School of Accounting and Computer Information Systems > Accounting Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/hApyJ2yZQIc?rel=0&autoplay=1 ACCOUNTING & CIS Accounting Undergraduate Programs Accounting Graduate Programs Computer Information Systems Conference of Accountants Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Accountants are generally responsible for creating, analyzing and communicating financial information for companies, organizations, individual clients and government agencies. Accurate recording and reporting of financial data and business transactions comprise a major portion of an accountant’s workday. With an increasingly global economy, greater scrutiny of financial data and an expected gap in the workforce due to retiring baby boomers, demand for accountants is on the rise. The Bureau of Labor Statistics forecasts employment of accountants and auditors to grow faster than the national average of all occupations. TU’s accounting curriculum keeps pace with changes in the accounting industry, preparing students to excel in accounting roles for a wide range of organizations, from public accounting firms to government agencies. The Collins College of Business offers a B.S.B.A. degree with a major in accounting as well as a Master of Accountancy degree. Exceptional undergraduate accounting students can apply for the 4+1 MAcc program to begin graduate coursework while completing their bachelor’s degree. Outside the classroom, accounting students have opportunities for networking and involvement in organizations such as Beta Alpha Psi. Program Objectives Students completing the Accounting, B.S.B.A. major will possess the: Demonstrate the financial accounting skills necessary to become a successful professional in the field of accounting. Demonstrate the accounting information systems and auditing skills necessary to become a successful professional in the field of accounting. Demonstrate the tax skills necessary to become a successful professional in the field of accounting. Demonstrate the cost accounting skills necessary to become a successful professional in the field of accounting. Program Options Accounting, B.S.B.A. Prepares students for the role of business information professionals with expertise in analysis, reporting, and translating complex information into critical knowledge. Accounting Minor Students may pursue accounting minor to develop expertise in accounting skills, an ideal complement to the other business administration majors in addition to non-business majors. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation Foreign Language Foreign Language Applied Calculus Introduction to Spreadsheets Block II – Historical and Social Interpretation Mathematical Functions Block III – Scientific Investigation Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Minding Your Business First Year Experience SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Macroeconomics (Block II) Microeconomics (Block II) Concepts in Accounting Information I Concepts in Accounting Information II Statistics I Statistics II Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Legal Environment of Business Introduction to CIS Essential Business Skill Development Block II – Historical and Social Interpretation JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Intermediate Financial Accounting I Effective Writing for the Accountants Topics in Federal Income Taxation Cost Accounting Business Finance Principles of Marketing Professional Development Intermediate Financial Accounting II Operations Management General Education Elective Principles of Management SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Accounting Information Systems Auditing Assurance for Accounting Systems General Education Elective Strategic Management Accounting Elective Block III – Scientific Investigation Free Elective General Education Elective (upper level) Free Elective Free Elective (upper level) About the Minor The accounting minor is an ideal complement to the other business administration majors in addition to non-business majors. Other business fields depend heavily on collecting, maintaining, analyzing, and reporting business information. View a list of accounting minor course requirements here. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT