Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Finance Undergraduate Programs Alumni Finance alumna invests in philanthropic efforts My TU Story First-generation student blazes trail at TU > School of Finance and Operations Management > Finance Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/PQ6acdJHD4A FINANCE & OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT Finance Undergraduate Programs Friends of Finance Student Investment Fund Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Finance is the management of money and other assets in a manner that provides the optimal use of these scarce resources. The world of finance is dynamic, increasingly competitive, complex and global. Finance professionals help track daily operations within an organization, analyze the current financial position and plan for future corporate expenditures and acquisitions. The University of Tulsa’s finance program prepares students to excel in this exciting arena. The career paths and options in finance are extensive, including corporate finance, banking and investment planning. TU’s School of Finance and Operations Management offers a finance major with three areas of study: corporate finance, investments and portfolio management. The study of finance at TU involves perfecting students’ technical skills specific to the discipline as well as honing their management interests. The finance program is designed to educate students in all areas of business — accounting, economics, management, marketing and computer science — because the finance profession involves interaction with all these areas. Program Objectives Students completing the Finance, B.S.B.A. major will: explain the function of capital and money markets; apply valuation techniques and make objective decisions; assess risk and return characteristics of investment opportunities; effectively communicate financial concepts, recommendations, and decisions. Program Options Finance, B.S.B.A. Focus in the areas of corporate finance, investments, financial institutions, and risk management. Finance Minor A natural complement to business administration majors. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation Basic Calculus Math with Applications Block II – Historical & Social Interpretation Spreadsheets Foreign Language Foreign Language Block III – Scientific Investigation Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience General Education Elective Business Orientation SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Macroeconomics Microeconomics Concepts in Accounting Information I Concepts in Accounting Information II Statistics I Statistics II Introduction to CIS Business Skill Development Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience Block II – Historical and Social Interpretation JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Business Finance Principles of Management Principles of Marketing Operations Management Analysis of Financial Statements Writing for the Professions Block III – Scientific Investigation with Lab Investment Analysis & Portfolio Management I General Education Elective Finance Elective Advanced Spreadsheets SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER General Education Elective General Education Elective (upper level) Free Elective (lower level) Free Elective (lower level) Financial Institutions and Markets I Strategic Management Finance Elective Planning and Control of Capital Expenditures Finance Elective Risk Management * Introduction to College Writing or its equivalent may be a prerequisite in some cases. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT