Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About About the Associate Vice President Insurance Coverage & Litigation Issues Policies & Procedures Departments Auxiliary Services Contract Administration Managed Print Services Records Management & Retention Risk Management Travel Management UTV Cable Services Forms Contact Auxiliary Services Contract Administration Managed Print Services Records Management & Retention Risk Management Travel Management UTV Cable Services Life@TheU About Departments Forms Contact Life@TheU Search Campus Store / Bookstore Dining Services Logo Licensing Mail Operations Vending Services Watsco Center Contact Auxiliary Services About About the Associate Vice President Insurance Coverage & Litigation Issues Policies & Procedures Departments Auxiliary Services Contract Administration Managed Print Services Records Management & Retention Risk Management Travel Management UTV Cable Services Forms Contact Auxiliary Services Contract Administration Managed Print Services Records Management & Retention Risk Management Travel Management UTV Cable Services Life@TheU Campus Store / Bookstore Dining Services Logo Licensing Mail Operations Vending Services Watsco Center Contact Auxiliary Services About Departments Forms Contact Life@TheU Home Departments Auxiliary Services Vending Services AAA Vending Services Campus Store / Bookstore Dining Services Logo Licensing Mail Operations Vending Services Watsco Center Contact Auxiliary Services Beverage Vending The University has an exclusive full-service beverage agreement with Coca Cola. Snack Vending The University has an exclusive full-service snack vending service agreement, which includes a full assortment of snacks, cold and frozen foods, healthy snack/food options, milk products, coffee, and fresh fruit with Gilly Vending. Pharmabox The University's Pharmabox provides the Coral Gables campus community modern-day access to pharmaceutical products conveniently located at the Merrick Building. Beverage/Snack Machine Refunds and Service For vending machine refunds (make sure to have the vending machine number available), and service problems, including abuse or misuse of any vending machine, please contact the Department of Auxiliary Services at: aux@miami.edu. Beverage/Snack Machine Installation Departments interested in obtaining a vending machine, or machine, should proceed in the following manner: 1. Have the installation approved by the appropriate person responsible for the area where the machine(s) are to be installed, i.e. the Department Head, Dean, Chairperson. 2. Determine if the location contains the utilities required for the installation, i.e. electrical, required space, etc. 3. Contact the Department of Auxiliary Services at (305) 284-3584, and indicate: The desired location of the machine(s). Note: vending machines cannot be installed in stairwells or in hallways. The types of products desired in the machine(s). Please note that the installation of new equipment may be subject to approval by the University's Buildings and Grounds Committee. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami 1320 S Dixie Highway Suite 1230 Coral Gables, FL 33146 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices