Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact Seize an unbridled opportunity. Prominent industry professionals. Local connections. Specialized courses. All backed with core business discipline. In this Section The Galbreath Award Equine Research Briefs Equine Scholarships & Awards Equine News Equine Faculty & Staff Contact Equine Equine Business You won’t find a better place for equine studies than the College of Business at the University of Louisville. As the only undergraduate equine program in the world located in an AACSB accredited college of business, our core business administration classes combine with 27 hours of specialized education, focusing on equine enterprises and event management. Because of our location in famed Kentucky horse country, classroom instruction is supplemented with the opportunity for internships, field experience, and contacts with prominent industry professionals. BSBA in Equine Business Take the entire business core, as well as specialized courses in equine business, the four-year degree is designed to prepare students for a range of career opportunities. Learn More Minor in Equine Business Position yourself with the leaders in the horse business. The Minor in Equine Business is available to all majors at the University of Louisville who meet the program prerequisites. Learn More Certificate in Equine Business The one-year undergraduate Certificate in Equine Business (the only one of its kind) enhances the understanding of the horse business and prepares students for a position in the equine industry. Learn More Online Horse Racing Industry Business Certificate Gain functional knowledge of horse racing operations, marketing, law, communications and analytics, and leadership. Bachelor's degree required. Learn More Own Tomorrow. Start Today. Equine Outcomes & Careers From farm manager to racing steward to bloodstock agent, discover the range of career opportunities. Learn More Equine Scholarships & Awards Excellence recognizes excellence. See the variety of scholarships available to our students and learn more about the Galbreath Award for equine entrepreneurs. Learn More Equine Faculty & Staff World-class faculty provide a blend of academic rigor and real world knowledge. Learn More Upcoming Events View All Events Close Equine Clubs Discover our range of riding teams and student clubs. Learn More Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish