Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected MyCBS Class Notes In Memoriam Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Domestic Clubs International Clubs Affinity Clubs Club Leader Resources Events and Speakers Marketing Geographic Profiles Additional Club Leader Resources Young Alumni Board 2020-2021 Young Alumni Board Young Alumni Resources Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources Self-Assessment Research Professional Branding Networking Interviewing & Managing Offers Professional Development Media Library Job Opportunities CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving 1916 Society Centennial Partners Student Relief Fund Hermes Society Recurring Gifts Second Century Circle Student Philanthropy Major Giving Student Financial Aid Manhattanville Campus Faculty and Research Support Founders' Pledge Program Support Planned Giving Invest in Your Future International Giving Events Events Calendar Recognition Reception Photos Reunion News More International Giving Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Alumni Clubs Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Alumni Benefits Career Management Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving Major Giving Planned Giving International Giving Events News International Giving Alumni and friends in the UK, Hong Kong, and certain European countries can make tax-effective contributions to support the School. Columbia University Hong Kong Fund The Columbia Hong Kong Fund is registered under Section 88 of the Inland Revenue Ordinance. Hong Kong residents who make their gifts to this fund can deduct the donated amount from their total income. Please consult the Inland Revenue Department website for more information about the tax benefits. You may make gifts through a wire transfer of cash. For transfer details, please contact Elymar Redor by email at [email protected] or by phone at (212) 851-4303. Columbia University UK Fund Residents of the UK can donate to any Columbia school or program through the Columbia UK Fund, a UK charity, to gain tax benefit. Those who pay both UK and US income taxes benefit as well: the same gift is treated as a charitable donation for US tax purposes and can be claimed as a deduction against US income. Applying for Gift Aid relief is easy. Simply fill out a Gift Aid Declaration Form once you make your gift to the Columbia UK Fund. Transnational Giving Europe Columbia University has partnered with Transnational Giving Europe (TGE) to allow residents of several European countries to make tax-effective contributions to any part of the University. The process is very simple: you make your gift to the TGE foundation partner in your country of residence. The foundation provides you with all the fiscal advantages, including a tax receipt. Your gift is then transferred to the Columbia UK Fund. See if your country is a TGE partner. I’m ready to make my gift. What do I do now? Great! Thank you so much for your interest in supporting Columbia Business School. You can make your gift through a check or a wire transfer. For further details, please contact Elymar Redor at [email protected]. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions