Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1644271075941 School of Risk Management and Insurance Students Insurance Program iDay 2019 Scholarships Job Placement Internships International Program Student Club About Us Director and Staff History, Goal, Vision and Benefits Board of Directors Members Companies Corporate Sponsors Board of Advisors Actuary Program History Vision and Objectives Course Requirements Faculty Course Information Events and Activities Professional Development Exams Certified Insurance Counselors Program (UACIC) Certified Risk Managers Program (UACRM) Research AIC Research GCat ObamaCare Contact Information Weili Lu, Ph.D. wlu@fullerton.edu (657) 278-3679 Social Media Insurance News BLOG FEED PLACEHOLDER DO NOT MODIFY Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1644877019264 Welcome to the School of Risk Management and Insurance Website Established in 1998, the School of Risk Management and Insurance (SRMI) began as the Center for Insurance Studies (CIS) and educates students from around the world to become the global insurance and risk management leaders of the future. CIS was elevated to the School of Risk Management and Insurance (SRMI) in the Fall of 2019. As a provider of the largest risk management talent pool in California, the School of Risk Management and Insurance educates, empowers and provides in-depth training to students ensuring they are well prepared for the many industry and societal challenges that lie ahead. The school is the leading insurance research institute for Asian insurance carriers due to the Insurance Competency Research Project it produces. European and U.S. investors utilize the School's research data for decision making while Chinese regulators utilize the data to develop a National Insurance Competency Blue Book. Working professionals have the opportunity to meet continuing education need through the California Department of Insurance certified events held by the School. Its Actuary Leadership Forum, Insurance Day, Excess and Surplus Lines Day, Insurance Forum, Risk Management Awareness Week, and SRMI Alumni Reunion events provide a direct connection between students and employers. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported