Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1635885132442 Department of Management Program Management Concentrations Courses Students Permits and Forms Scholarships Faculty Information Faculty Office Hours Faculty Profiles Faculty Research Management Concentration Faculty CBA Appointment Notification Centers Entertainment and Hospitality Management Entrepreneurship Family Business Leadership Small Business Development Contact Us AACSB Accredited Contact Information Department of Management managementdept@fullerton.edu (657) 278-2251 SGMH 5313 Management News Loading Blog Feed Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639170254309 Welcome to the Department of Management Managers play a crucial role leading effective and efficient organizations in today’s global, dynamic business environment. Our department prepares students for this challenge by training and education in fundamental concepts and practices across a variety of management disciplines. We also offer degree concentrations that provide students with an exciting and diverse range of opportunities to focus their studies. Our faculty have advanced degrees from some of the most respected business schools including Arizona State, Carnegie Mellon, Cornell, Michigan State, Northwestern, UC Berkeley, UCLA, USC, Indiana University, the University of Michigan, and the University of Texas. They also bring state-of-the-art research, practices, concepts and technologies to the curriculum and classroom. In addition, many faculty members bring first-hand management experience to their classes through their involvement in consulting and executive training. These activities contribute to a leading-edge curriculum that is updated regularly to maintain relevance. Why should I study management at the College of Business and Economics at Cal State Fullerton? To provide all of our business students an overview of these vital activities , the department of management offers required core courses in business law, organizational behavior, operations and supply chain management, and strategic management that are foundational components of our AACSB-accredited undergraduate and graduate programs. List of Concentrations: General Management (Opens in a new window) Human Resources Management (Opens in a new window) Operations and Supply Chain Management (Opens in a new window) Legal Studies (Opens in a new window) Entertainment and Hospitality Management (Opens in a new window) Entrepreneurship This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported