Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1640044651502 About the College of Business and Economics Staff Directory Mihaylo Hall Accreditation Schools and Centers Departments Student Programs Business Events Business Stories Loading Blog Feed Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1640044552803 Student Programs Titan Capital Management (TCM) The mission of TCM is to provide students with the opportunity to apply knowledge and skills learned in the classroom to manage investment portfolios in ‘real time’. Student teams will spend 12 months managing either a stock (equity) or bond (fixed income) portfolio funded by the CSUF Philanthropic Foundation with support from generous donations of CSUF alumni. Each portfolio is overseen by highly qualified faculty and advisory boards drawn from local investment practitioners. Contact: Titan Capital Management Business Honors Program If you are a talented and highly motivated student committed to obtaining the most out of your collegiate experience, you need look no further. The Business Honors Program at the College of Business and Economics provides a socially and professionally stimulating academic environment to a select group of business administration students. Contact: Business Honors Assistant Women's Leadership Program The Women’s Leadership Program is designed and created to explore the challenges of under-representation of women within top leadership positions and offers creative solutions and training for women students to prepare for advancement into such positions. Contact: Goli Sadri, Ph.D. Personal Financial Planning Program The college’s award-winning Personal Financial Planning Program has been continuously registered with the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards since 1990. It prepares students to become professional, competent and ethical personal financial planners. The program is ranked by Financial Planning as one of the nation’s top-tier personal financial planning programs. Contact: Personal Financial Planning Program This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported