Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About About the Associate Vice President Insurance Coverage & Litigation Issues Policies & Procedures Departments Auxiliary Services Contract Administration Managed Print Services Records Management & Retention Risk Management Travel Management UTV Cable Services Forms Contact Auxiliary Services Contract Administration Managed Print Services Records Management & Retention Risk Management Travel Management UTV Cable Services Life@TheU About Departments Forms Contact Life@TheU Search UTV Cable Services A Letter to UM Residents Cable TV Channel Lineup Cable TV Compatibility TV Tuner Requirements Contact UTV Cable Services About About the Associate Vice President Insurance Coverage & Litigation Issues Policies & Procedures Departments Auxiliary Services Contract Administration Managed Print Services Records Management & Retention Risk Management Travel Management UTV Cable Services Forms Contact Auxiliary Services Contract Administration Managed Print Services Records Management & Retention Risk Management Travel Management UTV Cable Services Life@TheU UTV Cable Services A Letter to UM Residents Cable TV Channel Lineup Cable TV Compatibility TV Tuner Requirements Contact UTV Cable Services About Departments Forms Contact Life@TheU Home Departments UTV Cable Services AAA UTV Cable Services UTV Cable Services A Letter to UM Residents Cable TV Channel Lineup Cable TV Compatibility TV Tuner Requirements Contact UTV Cable Services Connecting Your TV to Cable Services Instructions Note: The instructions that follow are generic in nature and are meant to serve only as guidelines. Refer to your TV owner's manual for specific instructions for your set. Connect the TV to the cable wall jack using a coaxial cable. If the TV has more than one input jack, select the one labeled "CABLE" or "CATV". Your television must have a Qam tuner to receive HD and Digital signal. Refer to your television’s specifications to confirm. Plug the TV power cord into an electrical outlet and power on the TV. Connect one end of the coaxial cable cord into the cable TV outlet in the wall, and connect the other end into the back of the television. If your TV has cable signal auto-detection, it will automatically pick up the cable channel lineup. If your TV does not have this function, you will need to set your TV to receive cable channels as described below. Configure your set to receive CABLE or CATV signals. This is usually accessed through a MENU or SETUP option on the TV's remote control. Switch from Air or Antenna to Cable/Catv. Refer to your TV owner's manual for specific directions for your set. Program the TV to receive channels. This is usually accessed through the same MENU or SETUP option used above. Locate an option labeled AUTO-PROGRAM (ch memory, ch scan) and select it. The TV will search through all channels and program the working channels. Refer to your TV owner's manual for specific directions for your set. Your TV should now receive all on-campus channels! University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami 1320 S Dixie Highway Suite 1230 Coral Gables, FL 33146 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices