Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > Business Business Recognizing excellence: Collins College of Business Honors and Awards 2022 On May 5, the Collins College of Business recognized outstanding students, faculty, Read More White nights, dark winters: Life in Finland with a Fulbright Scholar Professor of Marketing Brian R. Chabowski has spent the past 10 months Read More Tulsa launches Mobility Innovation Strategy; TU to sponsor competition TU mobility competition will help connect Tulsans to jobs, health care, education, Read More Creativity can be your superpower JOLT@TUBusiness recently launched its first creativity exercise called The Mazzio’s Pizza Box Read More ‘How I Built This’ Podcast ‘How I Built This’ (HIBT) is a great podcast to throw on Read More My CCB Story: Andrew McKinnis (BSBA ’19, MBA ’20) Written by Andrew McKinnis, BSBA ’19, MBA ’20 and current analyst for Read More Where good ideas come from… ’ One of my favorite TED talks is Steven Johnson’s “Where Good Read More Student Investment Fund among Top 25 in the U.S. Adjunct Instructor Tally Ferguson breaks down the significance of the Student Investment Read More Business alumna shares insights on health care leadership Collins College of Business alumna Kate McKinley (BSBA '98, MBA '00) gives Read More From landman to renewable energy entrepreneur Founded and led by energy management alumnus Mohammed Abdalla (BSBA ’11), Good Read More School of Energy helps Oklahoma communities grapple with natural gas supply, distribution and pricing Professors Tom Seng and Buford Pollett recently developed and ran seminars for Read More Orientation at Tulsa Another one of my favorite memories was orientation week. Orientation week allowed me Read More Posts navigation Older posts 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT