Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639428213127 Department of Information Systems and Decision Sciences Program Courses Undergraduate Graduate Honors Roadmaps Students Advising Resources Scholarships Tutoring Center Clubs Internships and Jobs Careers Alumni CITBA Permit Request Faculty Information Faculty Office Hours Faculty Profiles Faculty Research CBA Appointment Notification FAQ Contact Us AACSB Accredited Contact Information Rhondalyn Piggee rpiggee@fullerton.edu (657) 278-2221 SGMH 4113 ISDS News Loading Blog Feed Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639428946510 Department of ISDS Information Systems are the backbone of modern businesses. As the capabilities of information systems and technologies soar, business functions such as marketing, accounting and finance rely heavily on information systems for developing and maintaining strategic advantage. There is a high demand for individuals knowledgeable in business functions and information systems and technologies. Graduates of the College of Business and Economics are prime candidates to fill in this demand at the corporate level, as well as at the business function levels. Our college's graduates have the managerial skills and the knowledge of the essentials of information systems to strategically manage, maintain, and analyze data and systems. Today’s student is building the knowledge and ability to acquire, manage or develop systems, such as Accounting Information Systems, Marketing Information Systems, or Financial Information Systems. Graduates can be found in positions in the function areas of an MIS group and have strong candidacy for promotion to an MIS or general management position at the corporate level. The Department of Information Systems and Decision Sciences (ISDS) is one of six departments in the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. The department offers courses to undergraduate students which form the basis for Information Systems (IS) concentration and Decision Sciences (DS) concentration. We also offer two (STEM designated) graduate programs: The Master of Science in Information Systems (MSIS) and the Master of Science in Information Technology (MSIT). The MSIT program is taught in an on-line format. The Department also supports the College MBA program by offering concentrations in Information Systems, Business Analytics and Decision Sciences. Why ISDS? We provide students with the skills required to immediately begin a career in the information systems field... Read More » MSIT Program Overview This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported