Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact Sustain Success Discover how alum Marc Spiegel stays connected to UofL. Read More Sustainable Success Set the Bar Learn who Dr. Zac Goldman believes are the unsung heroes of the Online MBA. Read More Setting the Bar Cultivate Resourcefulness Learn how Dacia Berry's focus and drive led to her graduating one year early. Read More Read More College of Business Affiliated CENTERS Reinhardt Academic Advising Center Our academic advisors provide a touchstone to keep students on path to graduation. Center for Free Enterprise Free enterprise drives society forward. Learn more about Center events, reading groups, research, and more. Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Center offers students and alumni a wide range of lifelong career services. Family Business Center Running a family business can provide its own challenges to life/work balance. Find your community with us. Yum! Center for Global Franchise Excellence The Yum! Center for Global Franchise Excellence (Yum! CGFE) unlocks opportunity in the franchising industry. Forcht Center for Entrepreneurship The Forcht Center nurtures entrepreneurship skills, experiences, and opportunities. Dig Deeper 92% Undergraduate Placement Rates* $75,680 Average Starting Salary (MBA) #87 Best Overall Business School in the Nation (U.S. News and World Report) 1,858 Business Students Enrolled All RANKINGS Graduate Degrees and Programs Calling all creators Invest in your career with an MBA, MAC, MSBA, or PhD that speaks to your enterprising spirit. GRADUATE PROGRAMS Undergrad Business Degrees and Programs Lay the foundation Find the lifelong tools, support, and resources for your career path at the College of Business at the University of Louisville. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS Plan your LEAP: Apply Today. APPLY Entrepreneurship programs at The College of Business Entrepreneurship Risk takers. Dreamers. Innovators. The entrepreneurial spirit is the resonate bell that calls the College of Business to action. With a variety of resources and centers housed at the College of Business, UofL looks to not only draw fire from the spark of business inspiration but provide the skills and resources to sustain the flame which burns brightest in the best of our future business leaders. Forcht Center for Entrepreneurship Transform your dream Equine Industry Program Equine Industry Program Your equine career starts in the shadow of Churchill Downs' Twin Spires. We’re at the center and top of famed Kentucky Horse country. Learn from industry leaders. Specialize in equine enterprises. All backed with a strong, diverse business background. LEARN MORE COVID-19 Resources Information that you need to know about classes and community during this crisis. Get Started Get Started Upcoming Events View All Events Close 2021-2022 Faculty and Staff Awards May 19, 2022 Read Now Entrepreneurship and Music Minor April 1, 2022 FranchiseU! Episode 19: Michael Browning (Unleashed Brands) May 24, 2022 Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish