Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Computer Information Systems Alumni Story Beyond Programming: Dispelling the Misperceptions About a Career in CIS 918-631-3625 Helmerich Hall, 313 Map Email https://youtu.be/2OpzoCaLyng COMPUTER INFORMATION SYSTEMS CIS Undergraduate Programs Faculty News Contact the Department The Computer Information Systems (CIS) program at The University of Tulsa is committed to educating students as leaders in a world that requires information and knowledge. Our curriculum stresses the importance of interpersonal skills as well as the technical aspects of the degree. TU’s Computer Information Systems program, established in 1982, is one of the earliest information systems programs to be offered in the U.S. Its goal is to train students to make organizations run more efficiently through the use of technology by exposing them to a cross-disciplinary foundation comprising marketing, management, finance, CIS, and accounting courses. Students gain knowledge in a wide range of topics including business application development, database systems, telecommunications protocols, infrastructure, information security, systems analysis and design, and project management. Courses focused in IT specific areas such as healthcare informatics are also offered. Why CIS? The Computer Information Systems programs are a good fit for someone who likes to solve problems, enjoys technology and is interested in learning more about digital information management. Prospective students also learn valuable collaboration and teamwork skills. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Occupational Outlook Handbook, demand for students equipped with this unique combination of skills has grown in recent years and is projected to increase in the future. Jobs are available in just about any industry from energy and finance to technology and health care. With such a high demand for skilled professionals and competitive starting salaries, why don’t more students take advantage of the opportunity to major in CIS? 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT