Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > CIS CIS CCB honors alumni and students with 2019-20 excellence awards The college's annual awards include accolades for alumni, faculty, students and staff Read More The Day of Innovation takes on 2019 The Day of Innovation is the culmination of hard work and bright Read More School of Accounting and CIS hosts Oklahoma Accountancy Board The Oklahoma Accountancy Board held their September 21 board meeting in Tyrrell Read More New alumna Mary Celeste Arras reflects on time at TU and talks future plans Mary Celeste Arras, a recent management graduate with minors in marketing and Read More Senior Peyton Manning finds perfect fit in CIS and management majors Peyton Manning, one of many University of Tulsa students who will enter Read More CIS bottom line: People count Salvatore (Sal) Aurigemma, assistant professor of Computer Information Systems, was born and Read More TU and Phillips 66 enjoy long-standing partnership The University of Tulsa has enjoyed a long-standing partnership with global energy Read More TU hosts Hour of Code for area Girl Scouts The University of Tulsa recently hosted an Hour of Code event for Read More True programming: CIS students coach Girl Scouts Lego Robotics team Being True Blue is about finding innovative ways to use existing concepts. Read More Veteran, alumnus Rob Hanigan talks launching CIS career at Dropbox Texas native Rob Hanigan grew up in a military family and lived Read More CS, CIS students place third at pen testing competition A team of undergraduate students from The University of Tulsa placed third Read More CIS student shares insights from national cybersecurity conference Computer information systems (CIS) senior Jenna Waters was one of four female Read More Posts navigation Older posts 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT