Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact Shape your future. The first step is the most important. Seize control of your future with diverse education, resources, and lifelong support. In this Section Accountancy UofL Bachelor of Business Administration Computer Information Systems Economics Equine Industry Finance Management Marketing Business Minors Undergraduate Business Programs Open yourself to a wealth of career opportunities with a business degree that opens doors. In today’s world, markets are constantly changing and employers seek candidates with comprehensive skills. The University of Louisville provides a competitive, high-quality program that delivers inside and outside the classroom. Explore a major that supports your goals. Apply today. Learn More Join the College of Business Student Success Nurturing a career means holistic support with their academic studies and beyond. Undergraduate Advising & Assistance Stay on course for graduation with the help of our academic advisors. Choosing/Changing Majors Learn how to add a major, a minor, or change your field of study. Undergraduate Internships & Co-ops Gain real-world experience and a head start on your career with an internship. OUR IMPACT 91% Employed full-time within three months of graduation $54,399 Average starting full-time salary 83% Percent retention rate 58.8% Graduation rate View more Accountancy Learn the language of business — analyze, manage and interpret the financial information of companies and organizations. Degrees Offered: BSBA | BSBA with Information Security Get Started Get Started UofL Bachelor of Business Administration Foundational business skillsets for the well-rounded professional. Get Started Get Started Computer Information Systems One of the most sought after skillsets in the global economy, learn information systems with strategic business importance. Degrees Offered: BSBA with Security | BSBA with Web Dev | BSBA with Process Management Get Started Get Started Economics Economics is the first choice for students seeking cutting-edge careers and life experiences. Degrees Offered: BSE | BA in Economics | Minor Get Started Get Started Equine Industry The University of Louisville’s College of Business offers the only equine degree in North America in an AACSB accredited college of business. Degrees Offered: BSBA | Minor | Certificate in Equine Business Get Started Get Started Finance Learn economic theory, accounting measurements, mathematical and statistical models, data analysis and more in in the fundamental study of risk analysis and risk management. Degrees Offered: BSBA Get Started Get Started Management Learn how to utilize human, financial and physical resources to produce effective, efficient results. Degrees Offered: BSBA | Minor Get Started Get Started Marketing Study the business of business. Research product and service markets, brand management, communications and more. Degrees Offered: BSBA Get Started Get Started Business Minors Add strength, breadth and diversity to your Bachelor’s Degree with a business minor. See All Minors Get Started Get Started Apply today Ready to join the College of Business? Start your journey today. Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish