Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Travel Management Travel News and Alerts Travel FAQ's Travel Events Meet the Team Business Travel Travel Portal & Bookings Travel Trainings Travel Card Travel Policies Travel Reimbursements International Travel Travel Discounts Airlines Car Rentals Ground Transportation & Parking Hotels Book Travel Contact Us Contact Travel Management Join Our Mailing List About Business Travel Travel Discounts Book Travel Contact Us Search About Travel Management Travel News and Alerts Travel FAQ's Travel Events Meet the Team Business Travel Travel Portal & Bookings Travel Trainings Travel Card Travel Policies Travel Reimbursements International Travel Travel Discounts Airlines Car Rentals Ground Transportation & Parking Hotels Book Travel Contact Us Contact Travel Management Join Our Mailing List Home AAA The University of Miami Travel Portal Ensures that travelers are receiving negotiated discounts, access travel-related resources and traveling in compliance with university policies. Learn More > Travel Delays The travel industry is experiencing system-wide technical difficulties and delays, as well as high call volumes. If you have an emergency, please contact Travel Management at 305-284-2072 or travel@miami.edu. Travel Delays The travel industry is experiencing system-wide technical difficulties and delays, as well as high call volumes. If you have an emergency, please contact Travel Management at 305-284-2072 or travel@miami.edu. Welcome The University of Miami Travel Management Department is your source for University travel needs and information. We are dedicated to supporting the mission of providing safety, service, and savings for University travelers. Among the services we offer, is an online travel booking tool and a team of University of Miami travel agents at Travel Incorporated ready to assist with your travel needs. Safe travels! Book Business Travel Travel FAQ's Travel Policies Travel Portal Trainings Join Our Mailing List Book Your Travel Faculty, staff, and students can book official University business travel through the Univeristy of Miami Travel Portal for both themselves and others. The Travel Portal can also be used for personal travel needs. Book Now Travel Webinar Demo the University of Miami Travel Portal and learn more about the University's managed travel program. Sign-Up MythBusting: Finding Lower Airfare Think you found a cheaper flight on a search engine outside the University of Miami Travel Portal? Learn about the mythbusters that come from finding lower airfares online and why you should be booking business travel through the Travel Portal. Travel Incorporated discusses the factors and discrepancies that may lead to the appearance of lower airfares. South Florida Hotels Did you know? The Department of Travel Management has established discounted rates with South Florida hotels. In addition to University of Miami students and employees, visitors and UHealth patients can also take advantage of these special rates and offers! Review Rates Florida State Car Rental Rates Book through the University of Miami Travel Portal to take advantage of the State of Florida's contracted reduced car rental rates and discounts. Business travel reservations perks such as insurance included and leisure travel. Learn More About Car Rentals Travel News and Alerts May Newsletter - new state of travel & travelers beware Travel News and Alerts May Newsletter - new state of travel & travelers beware University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Travel Management 1320 South Dixie Highway Tower, Suite 1235 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2072 305-284-2072 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices