Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1645560351266 CCRG SEC Conference About the Conference Registration Conference Speakers Program Who’s Attending? Board Academic Conferences Research About Contact Us Upcoming Event 21st Annual SEC Conference September 23, 2022 Virtual Conference Event Information Contact Information CCRG ccrg@fullerton.edu (657) 278-4414 SGMH 4357 Corporate Reporting and Governance News Loading Blog Feed Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1645059495716 Center for Corporate Reporting and Governance Part of the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton and housed within the Department of Accounting, the Center for Corporate Reporting & Governance (CCRG) was created in 2003 to address corporate reporting and governance issues facing companies and their auditors in the changing financial environment. The CCRG is a premier resource for financial reporting and corporate governance in Orange County, California. Its annual SEC "Hot Topics" Conference in September features leading experts from the SEC, PCAOB, legal profession and industry and attracts over 500 corporate board members and professionals. Announcing the 21st Annual SEC "Hot Topics" Conference, which will be held virtually on September 23, 2022. Conferences Conferences Image Description SEC "Hot Topics" Conference The conference is intended for audit committee members, CFOs, auditors, accountants, lawyers, financial professionals and those involved in in the financial reporting process. Read More » Haskell & White Corporate Reporting & Governance Academic Conference Blending Theory with Practice This conference is about blending the theory of corporate governance and financial reporting with practice. The conference is also intended to provide opportunities to academics ... Read More » Spotlight Spotlight Image Description Haskell & White & CCRG Covid-19 Study (pdf) Conducted for the September 2020 Conference, this study takes a look at the Covid-19 pandemic and how it effected Southern California business Boards of Directors of Public Companies In Orange County (pdf) OC Corporate Governance Bulletin | June 2016 | Vol. 2 Issue 1 The latest CCRG research bulletin comparing the composition of board members in Orange county to that of the nation's best. CPE Sponors CPE Logo Description The Center for Corporate Reporting & Governance at California State University, Fullerton is registered with the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) as a sponsor of continuing professional education on the National Registry of CPE Sponsors. State boards of accountancy have final authority on the acceptance of individual courses for CPE credit. Complaints regarding registered sponsors may be submitted to the National Registry of CPE Sponsors through its website: www.learningmarket.org. Website: www.nasba.org This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported