Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Undergraduate Energy Management Program My TU Story For Muneeb Yousufi, student support a hallmark of energy management program My TU Story First generation student blazes trail at TU > School of Energy Economics, Policy and Commerce > Undergraduate Energy Management Program https://youtu.be/BAS6WcG6yvc ENERGY ECONOMICS, POLICY AND COMMERCE Undergraduate Programs Master of Energy Business Online Veterans in Energy Research & Outreach Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information The University of Tulsa’s interdisciplinary energy management program combines traditional academic coursework with practical knowledge and understanding of one of the world’s most vital and volatile industries. The energy management program is one of only 9 such programs in the U.S. and one of two offered by a private institution. Students develop a solid foundation in business law, finance, environmental economics and energy commodities trading, in addition to studying alternative energy sources. With a unique curriculum and strong industry support, our program prepares students for employment opportunities in the upstream (exploration and production), midstream (trading and transporting and storing of energy commodities) and downstream (refining, marketing and distribution) sectors of the energy industry. Opportunities to gain valuable experience and insight through participation in industry internships, local mentoring programs and the Tulsa Energy Management Student Association (TEMSA) serve as complements to the classroom experience. What can you expect by majoring in energy management? Generous industry sponsored scholarships that are among the highest on campus Industry-related internships, both during the academic school year and summers Mentoring programs pairing students with local industry professionals Involvement in the Tulsa Energy Management Student Association (TEMSA), which provides social and industry experiences and opportunities outside the classroom Highly competitive salaries, for both internships and full-time employment second to none in the Collins College of Business Career opportunities in both the upstream (exploration and production) and/or midstream (trading of energy commodities) sectors of the energy industry Employers of EM graduates are likely to be oil and gas companies, pipeline and storage companies, refining and marketing companies, utilities and financial institutions Program Fast Facts For degree requirements, see the academic bulletin. The first AAPL* approved Energy Management (EM) program at a private institution *American Association of Professional Landmen (AAPL) Endorsed by GPA Midstream A multidisciplinary curriculum, including energy related coursework in accounting, law, petroleum engineering, economics, finance, and geology Focus on energy courses early in the degree program (which is unique to TU), with nearly 50 percent of all energy-related coursework taken during the first two and a half years Courses are taught by full-time, on-campus faculty with direct industry work experience, along with professionally qualified industry practitioners Low student/faculty ratio and rigorous application process ensures quality and consistency of graduates High academic environment: 40% of current energy management students have grade point averages of 3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale A top-tier collegiate environment: Bloomberg Businessweek has ranked TU among the Top 100 institutions in the U.S. for more than six years A unique energy education venue: TU’s School of Energy Economics, Policy and Commerce is the only free-standing academic unit of its kind in the U.S. granting both undergraduate and graduate degrees in energy business Relevant energy coursework internship with energy companies Current student exchange program in Scotland Opportunity to participate in a mentoring program with local industry professionals Industry-sponsored scholarships available for qualifying students after program admittance Industry Advisory Council provides input to keep the program in step with the industry Membership in the Tulsa Student Energy Management Association (TEMSA) which provides practical learning experiences, industry speakers, social activities and philanthropic events for all participants Program Objectives Students who graduate from The University of Tulsa with a BSBA in Energy Management will be able to: Communicate an understanding of the business, financial, economic, scientific, marketing, legal, and ethical aspects of energy that serves as a foundation for personal and professional growth within the industry Demonstrate skills that are applicable to energy business operations across multiple industry sectors Understand how energy companies work and how different disciplines come together to impact overall business performance, stakeholder needs, and corporate citizenship Describe the various parts of the energy industry, articulating their linkages across the energy value chain Mission Statement To prepare tomorrow’s leaders, through an energy-focused, multidisciplinary curriculum, for careers in the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors of the global energy industry Program Options Energy Management, B.S.B.A. The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with a major in energy management is unique and multidisciplinary, encompassing required energy-related coursework from three of the University’s undergraduate colleges. Energy Business Minor For business majors: Individuals pursuing a major in the Collins College of Business may elect to add an 15-credit-hour minor in energy business. The minor encompasses fundamental knowledge of energy industry operations and permits students to more effectively target their education for careers across the global energy landscape. Though cyclical in nature, the energy industry has historically been a major US employer, providing interesting, dynamic, and highly compensated jobs with opportunities to work both domestically and abroad. Adding the minor in energy business may provide graduates in traditional business disciplines such as accounting, finance, management, computer information systems, and economics with a specific edge in the employment competition. Admission & Scholarships Admission into the Energy Management program is by application only. If you are interested in applying, please click here to download an application form. For more information, please email tom-seng@utulsa.edu or call 918-631-3587. Since 2008, the energy management program has awarded more than $3 million in scholarships, comprised of support from industry companies and organizations as well as energy management alumni and parents. For the 2019-2020 academic year, more than $143, 550 from 22 sponsors was awarded to 12 recipients for their academic achievements. To view a history of energy management scholarships awarded to students since 2008, click here. Co-Curricular Activities Co-Curricular Activities Opportunities to gain valuable experience and insight through participation in industry internships, local mentoring programs and the Tulsa Energy Management Student Association (TEMSA) serve as complements to the classroom experience. TEMSA members participate in intramural team sports, engage in various service projects in the Tulsa community, and continuously pursue opportunities to broaden their knowledge of the energy industry. Study Abroad Because of the global nature of the energy industry, energy management students are strongly encouraged to study abroad during their sophomore or junior years. Currently, we have a partnership with Robert Gordon University (RGU) in Scotland. This energy-related student international exchange program offers the opportunity to participate in energy-related internships for course credit. Students interested in study abroad opportunities should begin the planning process with their academic advisors during the first semester of the freshman year. Internship Opportunities Historically, energy management students at The University of Tulsa have been successful in obtaining summer and/or academic year internships, many of which come with financial support. Internship assignments may involve various departments and functions of energy companies, including business analysis, land administration, lease records management, accounting, commercial or financial operations, asset management, etc. While the availability of internships cannot be guaranteed, particularly during times of low commodity prices, the energy industry has long supported internship programs for students with strong academic backgrounds, effective communication skills, and demonstrated initiative. Participation in internships provides students with the opportunity to further refine their career choices, goals, and objectives, and it allows corporate sponsors to evaluate students in terms of fitness for future full-time employment. Recent companies and locations where energy management students have accepted internships include: Bluestone Natural Resources, Tulsa, OK BOK, Tulsa, OK BRG Energy Buffalo Land & Title, Tulsa, OK Canyon Creek, Tulsa, OK Cimarex, Tulsa, OK Chesapeake, Oklahoma City, OK Chevron, Bakersfield, CA and Houston, TX Concho, Midland, TX ConocoPhillips, Houston, TX Corterra Energy, Tulsa, ,OK Crescent Point, Denver, CO EDP Renewables, Houston, TX Encana, Denver, CO & Houston, TX Grand River Dam Authority, Tulsa, OK Hilcorp, Houston, TX Lilis Energy, Houston, TX Matador Resources, Dallas, TX Navico, Tulsa, OK Newfield, Houston, TX North Dakota, Bismarck, ND OCP, Ecuador ONEOK, Tulsa, OK Paladin, Tulsa, OK Phillips 66, Bartlesville, OK Sanguine, Tulsa, OK THG Energy, Tulsa, OK Tital Energy, Tulsa, OK Titan Energy, Tulsa, OK Vega Energy, Houston, TX Waterfield Energy, Tulsa, OK WCM Resources, Santa Fe, NM WPX Energy, Tulsa, OK Williams, Tulsa, OK XTO, Houston, TX Yukon Minerals, Tulsa, OK Employment Opportunities Recent companies and locations where energy management students have accepted full-time employment include: Four Point Energy, Denver, CO Chesapeake, Oklahoma City, OK Concho Resources, Midland, TX ICE/Chatham Energy, Houston, TX Magellan Midstream Partners, LP, Tulsa, OK Williams, Tulsa, OK ONEOK, Tulsa, OK ONEGas, Tulsa, OK BOK Financial, Tulsa, OK Encana, Denver, CO Titanium Exploration, Tulsa, OK Stinnett & Associates, Tulsa, OK Stonebridge, Denver, CO 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT