Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact Our credentials We’re building a legacy that lasts. In this Section College of Business Rankings The University of Louisville is proud to be recognized as one of the top MBA programs in the world. Our focus on entrepreneurship and free enterprise creates one of the best colleges of business for students and faculty equipped who want to build something that lasts. Graduate Program Ranking Highlights #5 2022 Top Southeast Entrepreneurship: Graduate #33 2022 Graduate Entrepreneurship Program Ranking #32 2021 Master of Accountancy (MAC) The Princeton Review Entrepreneurship Rankings Best Masters 2021 Global Rankings #31 Full Time MBA #28 Professional MBA #66 Innovation MBA in the U.S. #27 Master of Accountancy (MAC) EdUniversal's Best Masters Global Program Rankings Business Salaries Earn More $54,399 Average post-undergrad starting salary $75,680 Average post-MBA starting salary 91% Employed in field within three months of graduation 130,000 UofL alumni worldwide 2022 U.S. News and World Report Rankings #26 Online BSBA in the U.S. #29 Online MBA for veterans in the U.S. #42 Online MBA in the U.S. #115 Professional MBA in the U.S. U.S. News Best College Rankings Additional Rankings #61 2021 Best Universities in the South Forbes Magazine #73 Kiplinger's Best College Values (Public Universities) 2019 #93 2021 Top Business Schools Poets & Quants Kiplinger Best Values in Colleges Undergraduate Acceptance & Academics 47% Acceptance rate 22-29 ACT range 28:1 Student-to-faculty ratio 23 Degrees and minors offered Post-graduation University of Louisville students are positioned and supported to succeed immediately and over the long term with lifetime access to career support services. The Ulmer Career Management Center staff are dedicated to providing career coaching and interview preparation services at any point in an alum's career. *Placement (employment) rates are derived from sources that include data from a 2017 Ulmer Career Management Center graduate survey and self-reported data from LinkedIn about graduates' employment after they received their degrees. Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish