Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Build your business career Explore Programs Collins College of Business graduates integrate knowledge, technical competence and interpersonal skills to launch successful careers in today's global economy. Undergraduate and graduate students can expect classroom learning that fuses a solid business foundation with hands-on work solving complex problems. Internships, specialized minors, study abroad opportunities and community partnerships round out a complete experience that emphasizes personal development. Discover Your Path to Success Customize your degree program and experiences to chart a career path that leads to success. With careers that span accounting, finance, energy, international business and more, TU alumni are making a difference as leaders of Fortune 500 companies, founders of their own ventures and change agents within organizations large and small. Majors Careers Global Education Graduate Programs Alumni We cannot forget that as a nation we have not recovered from the 200+ years of the disease that is racism, which has transformed and infected our social structures. Read the full statement from TU’s Office of Diversity & Engagement , Explore Opportunities Go beyond the classroom to create a learning experience tailored to fit your personal goals. Study or work abroad. Pursue an entrepreneurial venture. Lead a student organization. Manage an $8 million portfolio of real money. Network with business leaders. Student Investment Fund Friends of Finance Studio Blue Conference of Accountants JOLT at TU Business TU is a community that welcomes and incorporates an array of cultures and backgrounds, facilitating intellectual and personal growth on a daily basis. Brandon Short, Finance/Economics Class of 2020 View More Events News All News Stories Recognizing excellence: Collins College of Business Honors and Awards 2022 On May 5, the Collins College of Business recognized outstanding students, faculty, staff and alumni at its Honors and Awards 2022 reception. White nights, dark winters: Life in Finland with a Fulbright Scholar Professor of Marketing Brian R. Chabowski has spent the past 10 months in Finland as a Fulbright Scholar. Here, he shares thoughts on the personal growth and professional enrichment of that experience. Student Investment Fund among Top 25 in the U.S. Business alumna shares insights on health care leadership From landman to renewable energy entrepreneur Network collaboration established between TU and Dublin City University School of Energy helps Oklahoma communities grapple with natural gas supply, distribution and pricing 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT