Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > School of Energy helps Oklahoma communities grapple with natural gas supply, distribution and pricing School of Energy helps Oklahoma communities grapple with natural gas supply, distribution and pricing November 30, 2021 Like much of the southern United States, Oklahoma endured frigid conditions for two weeks in February 2021. In addition to all the burst water pipes in people’s homes, a number of smaller municipalities across the state got stung by extremely high natural gas bills – from $4-$5/MMBtu in a normal winter, Storm Uri led to several days where natural gas ran at $1,000/MMBtu and higher. Most of these communities cannot easily afford such exorbitant bills and many lawsuits have been initiated over failure to pay or non-performance by suppliers. In order to help city managers, supervisors and public works superintendents get a stronger grasp of how natural gas is supplied, stored, distributed and priced, Collins College of Business Professors Tom Seng and Buford Pollett recently developed and ran educational seminars in Glenpool and Woodward. In search of profitable and sustainable distribution systems Tom Seng These seminars were requested and sponsored by the Oklahoma Municipal Assurance Group (OMAG), which provides property and casualty insurance for 500 towns and cities in the state, including Muskogee, Bartlesville and Ponca City. Approximately 50 smaller Oklahoma municipalities – from Guymon and Tuttle all the way down to tiny Ramona and Burbank — operate their own natural gas distribution systems. These communities typically do not employ specialized staff to oversee those systems. Yet, such systems play a large part in enabling them to fund their municipal operations. “OMAG’s goal is profitable and sustainable natural gas distribution systems with less uncertainty and better positioning to exploit opportunities,” said Bill Tackett, OMAG’s director of strategic initiatives. “This follows our belief that the best-run cities and towns have risk exposures that are less severe and less frequent in nature, which also promotes a higher quality of life for their citizens.” In discussions with OMAG clients, Seng and Pollett found that most, if not all of OMAG’s cities and towns have little understanding of the workings of the natural gas marketplace. “To some extent,” Seng remarked, “that leaves them at the mercy of more knowledgeable suppliers where they could potentially be taken advantage of.” The power to make better decisions Buford Pollett Seng and Buford saw this awareness gap as an opportunity for the School of Energy Economics, Policy and Commerce to provide them with information about the natural gas industry that could help them in their procurement decisions in the future. “We also wanted them to understand better the events of last February as this winter approaches,” noted Pollett. One of the brass tack challenges is that larger communities have greater purchasing power when it comes to natural gas procurement. The relatively small volumes most of OMAG’s clients consume impose more administrative burdens on the suppliers who charge a premium for such services. However, that sometimes can lead to a lack of attention to these smaller accounts which, when prices become historically high, can be very costly for these cities and towns. Attendees at the Glenpool seminar According to Seng, who traded natural gas in the mid-continent region for most of his career and has worked for natural gas transportation and storage companies, “despite natural gas procurement being a small portion of the duties of those managing Oklahoma’s smaller municipalities, they need to understand both the marketplace and supply chain.” They also require a “deep understanding of the industry’s standardized agreements for the purchase/sale of natural gas, transportation and storage, and pipeline and utility tariffs for service.” Meanwhile, as a lawyer licensed to practice in Oklahoma, Pollett was able to bring to the seminars his extensive knowledge of the detailed provisions of such standardized agreements. “OMAG is thankful to Tom and Buford for sharing their valuable knowledge in the areas of price discovery, nomination, storage, contracting and the roles and responsibilities of natural gas providers,” said Tackett. As a next step, OMAG will explore with these two experts how to build on the seminars in order to strengthen further the business operations of Oklahoma’s municipal natural gas distribution systems. Safe, reliable, affordable and sustainable energy for the future: If you’re interested in a career in this growing, profitable sector, check out all the educational pipelines on offer at TU’s School of Energy Economics, Policy and Commerce. Business, Energy, Faculty, Featured, News, Stories Buford Pollett, natural gas, natural gas distribution, Oklahoma Municipal Assurance Group, OMAG, Tom Seng 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT