Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Spears School of Business Main Menu In this section About Spears Departments & Programs Research Outreach Experiential Learning Info for Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online Students Faculty and Staff Alumni Home Departments & Programs School of Hospitality and Tourism Management Hospitality and Tourism Management Hospitality at its finest The School of Hospitality and Tourism Management in the Spears School of Business at Oklahoma State University educates students and conducts research for the food and beverage, lodging, event planning and tourism management industries. More information About HTM Meet the department Programs Undergraduate Graduate Learning by experience Be our guest at one of the experiential learning labs the school manages. Everything you taste, smell and touch during your experience is the responsibility of our students. Taylor's Restaurant Taylor's offers a fresh, themed buffet weekly prepared and served by students in the program. The students preparing and serving your food are in our Restaurant Operations course, a practical laboratory style class. Planet Orange Planet Orange brings you flavors and fun as a quick service restaurant concept lab. More than 120 students rotate weekly through this operation learning about concepts and strategies all while creating a great dining experience. Planet Orange Express All the coffee and treats you know and love now located in the Business Building. Wayne Hirst Center for Beverage Education The Wayne Hirst Center for Beverage Education explores trends and challenges in the beverage world while providing students with an integrated, collaborative and interdisciplinary curriculum. Leadership Program in Foodservice Excellence The School of Hospitality and Tourism Management and University Dining Services have teamed up to offer students the knowledge, skills and experience that will elevate their leadership and marketability to future employees. Department initiatives Signature Events Every year, the school offers several events for students and faculty to work hand-in-hand. These events often serve as senior capstone courses and scholarship funding opportunities. Distinguished Chef Series Hospitality Days Wine Forum of Oklahoma Craft Beer Forum of Oklahoma Scholarships HTM annually awards approximately $100,000 in scholarships to undergraduate and graduate students. The school has made a long-term commitment to obtaining financial resources via supportive donors so our students can have an affordable education. Scholarships Student Resources The school provides students with many opportunities to grow in their professional lives and continue the mission of the university. Internships Student Organizations Accelerated programs We provide a 4+1 program that gives you the opportunity to graduate with a Bachelor's and Masters in only five years. HTM 4+1 program Featured Announcements Clarivate's elite list of 2021 Highly Cited Researchers recognizes OSU's Dr. Kevin So November 22, 2021 Dr. Kevin So, associate professor in the School of Hospitality and Tourism Management, Spears Business, was named on the 2021 Highly Cited Researchers list from Clarivate, a data and analytics company. Taylor's Restaurant honored as Restaurant of the Month October 18, 2021 Taylor’s Restaurant was named Restaurant of the Month for October by the Made in Oklahoma Coalition. April Global Faculty of the Month April 22, 2021 The Center for Advanced Global Leadership and Engagement and the Spears School of Business are excited to announce Dr. Harounan Kazianga is the April 2021 Global Faculty of the Month. NEWS VIEW ALL Second Oklahoma Craft Beer Awards names winners Mar 14 Steven West receives President’s Volunteer Service Award Mar 7 EVENTS VIEW ALL Unsupported browser detected. Please use a supported browser such as Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, or Apple Safari or View the calendar. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Events calendar powered by Trumba Departments & Programs School of Hospitality and Tourism Management About HTM Faculty & Staff Taylor's Restaurant Planet Orange Hospitality Days Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Distinguished Chef Series Hospitality Days Directory School of Accounting Management Science and Information Systems - Spears School of Business Watson Graduate School of Management Undergraduate Programs School of Hospitality and Tourism Management 365 Nancy Randolph Davis Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (405) 744-6713 | Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Back To Top Back To Top SPEARS SCHOOL OF BUSINESS An AACSB accredited institution Spears School of Business Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) 405-744-5064 | Contact Us Follow us NewsEventsNewsletter SignupDirectoryHow are we doing? Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©