Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639429691421 Assessment C4 Flow Chart Models Learning Goals College of Business Rubrics Reports Rubrics AACSB Accredited Contact Information Sinjini Mitra smitra@fullerton.edu (657)278-2234 SGMH-4194 Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639429692287 Assessment and Instructional Support Assessment Statement The programs offered at the College of Business and Economics at Cal State Fullerton are designed to provide every student with the knowledge and skills essential for a successful career in business. Since assessment plays a vital role in the college’s drive to offer the best, several assessment tools are implemented to constantly evaluate our program as well as our students’ progress. Students, faculty and staff should expect to participate in assessment activities. In doing so, the college is able to measure its strengths and weaknesses, while continuing to cultivate a climate of excellence in its students and programs. (Rev. 10/2018) This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported