Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > View from the top View from the top March 8, 2017 If you watched a Monday Night Football game on ESPN during the NFL’s 2016 regular season, chances are, you spotted Sam Walker’s handiwork. A video camera ace since his first TV production course in high school, Walker (BSBA ’14) now spends his days operating mobile robotic cameras that capture aerial footage during televised events. “I bought my first camera in high school and loved taking pictures,” he recalls, “which progressed into videography.” Walker started doing freelance video work as a senior in high school, and continued working throughout his time as a student at TU. Initially a petroleum engineering major, it only took one semester before he decided it was not for him. He discovered management information systems (now computer information systems) in the Collins College of Business, which was a much better fit. And any time he wasn’t in class, Walker could be found honing his directing skills by capturing video of all Golden Hurricane football and basketball games, as well as working for local production companies. As drone technology emerged, Walker knew demand for aerial video would skyrocket. He purchased a drone and added to his quickly expanding skillset, and also became certified to fly a helicopter. “I got hooked when I took my girlfriend on a Valentine’s Day helicopter tour,” he said. “I hadn’t been in one since I was 8, and I wanted to be able to fly it myself the next year on Valentine’s Day. Three months later, I had my license.” His long-term goal is to earn a commercial license, so that he can one day own his own helicopter and camera system. Walker says that after getting a taste of having the flexibility to choose his own projects and set his own schedule, he knew he wanted to go into business for himself. By the time he graduated in 2014, Walker had filed the paperwork to incorporate his company, Over the Top Aerial Productions. Walker’s work centers primarily on sports events, which means he may only stop at his home in Tulsa just long enough to do a few loads of laundry and re-pack for the next destination. “I like the thrill of live TV,” he said. “The event happens and then it’s over. You may mess up, but you get to do it again the next day.” In 2015, Walker landed a contract as a pilot with SkyCam, formerly Tulsa-based company that developed a computer operated, stabilized aerial camera supported by four wires and suspended over a playing field to capture close-range footage of athletes. He traveled to SEC football games with CBS in 2015 and to Monday night football games for ESPN in 2016. A few days before a game is scheduled to air, Walker and the SkyCam team arrive to set up the system, which involves running miles of cable and constructing a series of virtual walls that control the camera’s placement. Walker says his MSI telecom courses often come into play, particularly when understanding the signal paths he uses to control the camera. “When you’re flying a 50-pound camera over Tom Brady’s head at 20 miles per hour, you want the system as safe as you can make it,” he said. “Being an aircraft pilot really helps, since you’re used to constantly checking gauges while focusing on what’s happening inside and outside. It’s the same type of environment in the control booth when we operate the SkyCam.” The team disassembles its equipment immediately following the game, typically wrapping up around 3:30 or 4 in the morning. “It’s a pretty cool feeling to leave the stadium and be in the airport by 6 a.m., watching SportsCenter highlights and the work we did the night before.” Besides the gratification that comes with seeing his work on national television, Walker says he also enjoys the freedom that comes with selecting the projects that interest him. And he constantly pushes himself to stay on top of the latest technology. “I want to learn everything I can,” he said. “Any opportunity I have to learn something new, I’m going to do it. I always want to be able to bring something to the table that makes it hard not to hire me.” Business, CIS 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT