Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1635890695626 Center for Entrepreneurship Consulting Overview Marketing Consulting Testimonials Request a Consultation Students Prospective Students Current Students Graduate Program Undergraduate Program Scholarships Incubator Overview Incubator FAQ About Us Contact Us Faculty Staff OC Study Support Us Blog FAQ Press Upcoming Event Competitions, Seminars, and Networking Date: Multiple Click link below for all our events Event Information Contact Information Charlesetta Medina cymedina@fullerton.edu (657) 278-3464 SGMH 3280 Social Media Entrepreneurship News BLOG FEED PLACEHOLDER DO NOT MODIFY Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1635885363618 Titan Fast Pitch The Titan Fast Pitch is the premiere business pitch competition in Southern California for university, high school, and middle school students. All compete to see who has the best 90 second business pitch! Learn More » Learn how a CSUF Consulting Team can help your business right now! The pandemic has changed everything. Work with one of our teams of MBAs or graduating seniors to help your business not only survive but thrive through these tumultuous times. Learn More » Start your business the RIGHT WAY with the CSUF Startup Incubator! Learn how the CSUF Startup Incubator can help you go from concept to launch! Learn More » CSUF Entrepreneurship News and Updates News, updates, and interviews with powerful entrepreneurs all on CSUFEntrepreneurship.com Learn More » Building the Future with the Center for Entrepreneurship We are dedicated to helping the next generation of entrepreneurs develop the skills that they need to compete locally and globally. The CSUF Entrepreneurship program does many things, including: consulting projects where students serve up fresh strategies to actual businesses, competitions for students from middle school to grad school, helping entrepreneurs go from concept to launch, frequent seminars and office hours for entrepreneurs and professionals, and much more. Interested in becoming a part of the CSUF Entrepreneurship community? Reach out to us at csufentrepreneurship@fullerton.edu for more information! CSUF Entrepreneurship depends on the support of the community, please go here to invest in the future. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported