Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1642719164559 College of Business and Economics IT Classrooms and Labs! Open Lab Software SGMH Training Slideshow LanSchool® Instructions (PDF) Printer Instructions (PDF) Contact Information CBE IT Services cbeit@fullerton.edu 657-278-7009 SGMH 2308C Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1642717779366 Instructional Technology Services Instructional Technology Services (ITS) is part of the Division of Information Technology. We understand that the division of responsibility within the University can at times be confusing. If you are in doubt about who to contact regarding technical assistance, please give us a call. The mission of Instructional Technology Services is to provide the highest level of technical service and support to college students, faculty and staff. Instructional Technology Services Staff Staff Office Phone Specialty Sepehr Sobhani PLS-285 x7487 IT - Academic Technology Development - Management Michael Caldera SGMH 2308C x8574 Systems Support Brett Benson SGMH 2308C x7009 Systems Support Student Assistant SGMH 2308 x7009 Labs & Classrooms Support Student Assistant SGMH 1105 x1006 SGMH Study Lab Support Training materials can be found on the navigation to the left. Keys Faculty using General Use Classrooms in SGMH should call x2277, Campus Technology, for training. At the end of the training a key to the podium and a key to the wall niche will be issued. Instructions regarding attending the training will be given at the time the appointment is set up. For training in SGMH-2505, the Learning Lab and the computer classrooms, please call x7009 to make an appointment. The IS staff will schedule training in the use of the podium and the control system in place in the computer classrooms. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported