Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > Friends of Finance > Friends of Finance featuring Vicki Fuller Friends of Finance featuring Vicki Fuller FRIENDS OF FINANCE Executive Speakers Schedule Friends of Finance Membership Finance Excellence Fund Previous Speakers Contact Friends of Finance Vicki L. Fuller President | VLF Development Vicki Fuller is a respected business and civic leader serving as Director on several corporate boards after recently retiring from a dynamic four- decade career in financial services. As a corporate Board Director, Vicki presently serves on the Blackstone / GSO Secured Lending Fund, the Blackstone Private Credit Fund, Fidelity Investments’ Equity & High Income Funds, The Williams Companies, and Treliant, LLC. Vicki was also a former Board Director at KeySpan Corporation. As a not for profit Board Director, Vicki presently serves on the Board of Directors at Roosevelt University and is a former Board Director of the Apollo Theatre, Odyssey House, and Mercy Center. In her capacity as President of VLF Development, Vicki is executing corporate advisory assignments, delivering professional speaking engagements, creating the Black Directors’ Workshop series, establishing a foundation to advance her philanthropic endeavors, and authoring her memoir (to be published in 2021). Professionally, Vicki retired in 2018 as CIO at New York State Common Retirement Fund (NYS Common), the third largest public pension fund in the United States with more than $216 billion in assets. At NYS Common, Vicki was responsible for building and executing investment strategies to ensure the fund continued to deliver superior returns for more than one million employees and retirees. Specifically, over six fiscal years, Vicki’s leadership helped the fund deliver annual investment returns at an average rate of 8.9%, a nearly 2% premium to the Fund’s 7% required rate of return. Prior to NYS Common, Vicki had a 27-year career at AllianceBernstein, a leading, global investment manager with more than $500 billion in assets under management. At AllianceBernstein, Vicki was Managing Director, portfolio manager, and a senior member of business development team providing institutional investor client service coverage. Prior to AllianceBernstein Vicki had senior analyst and associate roles at Standard and Poor’s and Morgan Stanley. Throughout her professional career, Vicki was known as a driver of high impact strategic initiatives, major force in scaling organizations by creating institutional operating processes, thought leader in designing innovative investment strategies, and culture curator by mentoring individuals, resulting in improved team performance and morale. Vicki’s corporate and civic impact has been acknowledged by a diverse network of professional organizations. In 2019, she was the Executive-In-Residence for Roosevelt University’s Heller College of Business. She was previously inducted into the National Association of Securities Professionals Wall Street Hall of Fame, named to Chief Investment Officer Magazine’s “Power 100”, received the Financial Women’s Association’s Woman of the Year Award, and Urban Technology Center’s Corporate Leadership Award. Additionally, Black Enterprise and Ebony named her one of the most powerful African Americans on Wall Street. Vicki’s journey also resulted in her being featured in the Harvard Business School Case Collection. Vicki earned an MBA from the University of Chicago, BSBA from Roosevelt University, and is a Certified Public Accountant. In her free time Vicki is an avid cross-country horseback rider, enjoys traveling, and loves all kinds of music. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT