Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1635884333922 Career Services Explore Careers Career Advising Career and Concentration Exploration Career Development Workshops Review Resources Résumé Resources Cover Letter Tips Interviewing Find a job Internship Resources Job Resources Career Fairs Employer Resources About Our Students Recruit Our Students Business Career Fair Faculty Resources TitansHIRED Our Staff Make a Career Appointment Contact Information Business Career Services businesscareers@fullerton.edu (657) 278-8738 SGMH 1401 Social Media Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1650324117143 Recruit Our Students Introducing Handshake! CSUF Business Career Services is now on Handshake! Recruiting business students has never been easier! Connect with us on Handshake and post your positions for business-related opportunities. Posting Positions All employers should post their positions on Handshake, our primary job and internship posting site for business students. This will allow you to specify candidate criteria, collect and view resumes via the online system, as well as allow students to search and apply for your opportunity. For employers wishing to recruit non-business majors or wanting to cross promote your position to majors outside of business, the positions must be posted on the University Career Center’s Titan Connection (Symplicity) job board database. Academic internships (in which students earn course-credit) must be approved with our Center for Internships and Community Engagement (CICE) before students can begin to work. Check out the guidelines and how to register with CICE. You can also email the job description to recruitbusiness@fullerton.edu for inclusion in our weekly e-newsletter, distributed to all undergraduate and graduate business students. We encourage you to work with our employer relations team to identify target student organizations, academic departments, and/or Centers of Excellence through which to market your opportunity. They can be reached at recruitbusiness@fullerton.edu. Getting Started with Handshake What is Handshake? Handshake is the online job and internship posting platform of CSUF College of Business and Economics, providing students with the opportunity to search and apply for business-related opportunities, and connect with employers and organizations. First Time on Handshake? Open an account today! Already have a Handshake account? Log in to post a job or internship. Note: In order to connect with our students, your company will need to have an active profile on Handshake Need More Help? Handshake: How to Create a User Account, Join a Company and Connect with Schools Handshake: Getting Started with Handshake: Employers Handshake: Employer Help Center Job Posting Policies Employers who wish to recruit CSUF students and alumni through job postings, events or interviews are expected to interact with students, alumni and staff in a professional and ethical manner. To recruit for employment, employers must abide by the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) Principles for Professional Practice and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) guidelines for Prohibited Employment Policies and Practices Overview. We recommend employers be familiar with NACE and EEOC standards prior to posting positions or participating in recruiting events. Cal State Fullerton expects all employers and their representatives to abide by federal and state employment laws and to honor the university’s commitment to equal opportunity and nondiscrimination in their recruiting and hiring practices. All employers who participate in our recruiting programs are expected to adhere to the guidelines and policies outlined in the CSUF Employer Recruiting Policies (PDF). To foster a strong working relationship, we also encourage you to partner with the University Career Center when recruiting at CSUF. We look forward to welcoming you onto campus! Please refer to our Guidelines and Requirements (PDF) for more information on our job posting policies. Internships CSUF Business Career Services partners with the Center for Internships and Community Engagement (CICE) to provide internship opportunities for our students. An internship is an approved and supervised work experience that meets specific student learning goals related to an academic field of study. Our students are eligible to participate in a variety of internships including the traditional full-time summer internships and the non-traditional, during the semester, part-time or project-based internships. At CSUF, internships can be offered as both paid and unpaid. If the internship is unpaid, it must be offered as an academic internship where the student earns academic credit for work done at an internship site. Unpaid (academic) internship will need to be approved by CICE as follow. A paid internship can be offered as both an “internship” (non-academic credit) or as an “academic internship” (academic credit). All paid business-related internship positions should be posted on Handshake. Academic internships must be approved with CICE before students can begin to work. Check out the guidelines and how to register with CICE. Approved academic internships will be posted on the university Career Center’s Titan Connection (Symplicity) job board database in order for students to apply and qualify for academic credit. Employers wishing to develop an internship opportunity are encouraged to contact our Employer Relations team at recruitbusiness@fullerton.edu. Other Ways to Get Involved We invite you to explore the various ways to connect remotely with our students and maintain your organization's brand. Ways to engage include: Host virtual employer information session to share information about your company Host virtual office hours and/or Q&A sessions Provide a virtual tour/site visit of your company or organization Partner with CSUF Business Career Services to host a skill-building workshop (e.g., mock interviewing, presentation skills, speed networking) or serve as an industry panelist Participate as a guest lecturer on a topic of expertise as part of a relevant class Participate in a Career Fair: More information on our Business Career Fair page for employers. Hiring International Students Students on F-1 visas are eligible for both internships and full-time employment provided they make the necessary arrangements to maintain visa requirements. It is the student's responsibility to understand the parameters and steps required, but employers are welcome to contact CSUF's Office of International Education and Exchange. The office partners with several employment attorneys that can help navigate the various requirements. Reference Documents: CSUF Employer Recruiting Policies (Handshake) PDF Recruiting and Job Posting Guidelines and Requirements (PDF) Contact Us Please don’t hesitate to contact us as we navigate through these uncertain times. We want you to know that we are committed to supporting our employers, and we are committed to providing our students with resources and opportunities for their career goals. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported