Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected MyCBS Class Notes In Memoriam Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Domestic Clubs International Clubs Affinity Clubs Club Leader Resources Events and Speakers Marketing Geographic Profiles Additional Club Leader Resources Young Alumni Board 2020-2021 Young Alumni Board Young Alumni Resources Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources Self-Assessment Research Professional Branding Networking Interviewing & Managing Offers Professional Development Media Library Job Opportunities CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving 1916 Society Centennial Partners Student Relief Fund Hermes Society Recurring Gifts Second Century Circle Student Philanthropy Major Giving Student Financial Aid Manhattanville Campus Faculty and Research Support Founders' Pledge Program Support Planned Giving Invest in Your Future International Giving Events Events Calendar Recognition Reception Photos Reunion News More Ways to Give Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Alumni Clubs Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Alumni Benefits Career Management Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving Major Giving Planned Giving International Giving Events News Ways to Give Thank you for your interest in supporting Columbia Business School! There are a number of ways you can make an impact: Donate Cash Development & Alumni Relations Columbia Business School David Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Make a recurring gift using our secure online gift form. Be sure to specify the amount, timing, and duration of your gift. Your credit account will be billed automatically, making your contribution as simple and convenient as possible. Make a one-time gift using our secure online gift form. Make a gift over the phone. To donate by phone, call Segovia Spelbrink at 212-851-4301. Make a gift by mail by sending a check payable to "Columbia Business School" to Development and Alumni Relations, Columbia Business School, David Geffen Hall, 645 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027. Make a gift by wire transfer in US dollars. To do so, please contact Elymar Redor at 212-851-4303 or [email protected]. Donate Non-Cash Assets Donating assets other than cash may allow you to enjoy a tax benefit—please see below for more information. There are several ways you can donate such assets: Make a gift of publicly traded, appreciated securities. To do so, please contact Elymar Redor at 212-851-4303 or [email protected]. Make a gift of non-publicly traded appreciated assets, such as: Real estate Private or restricted company stock Equity stake in a privately owned business To donate a non-cash asset like those listed above, please contact Segovia Spelbrink at [email protected]. Include Columbia Business School in Your Long-Term Planning To make a planned gift to the School, please contact Segovia Spelbrink at [email protected]. Alternately you can learn more about planned giving options. Matching Gifts Many employers offer a matching gift program to eligible employees. If you or your spouse work for a matching gift company, your gift to Columbia may be doubled or tripled. To find out if your company has a matching gift program, visit http://giving.columbia.edu/ways-to-give/matching-gifts Make Donations From Outside the United States Make a tax-effective contribution from abroad. Alumni and friends living in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, and certain European countries can give to the School and still receive a tax benefit in their country of residence. The following international giving opportunities are available: Residents of the United Kingdom can donate to any Columbia school or program through the Columbia UK Fund, a UK charity, to gain tax benefit. Those who pay both UK and US income taxes benefit as well: the same gift is treated as a charitable donation for US tax purposes and can be claimed as a deduction against US income. Applying for Gift Aid relief is easy. Simply fill out a Gift Aid Declaration Form once you make your gift to the Columbia UK Fund. Columbia University has partnered with Transnational Giving Europe (TGE) to allow residents of several European countries to make tax-effective contributions to any part of the University. You simply make your gift to the TGE foundation partner in your country of residence and the foundation provides you with all the fiscal advantages, including a tax receipt. Your gift is then transferred to the Columbia UK Fund (a UK Charity). Gifts routed through the Columbia UK Fund will ultimately benefit the University’s mission. See if your country is a TGE partner. The Columbia University Hong Kong Fund is registered under Section 88 of the Inland Revenue Ordinance. Hong Kong residents who make a gift to this fund can deduct their donation amount from their total income. Please consult the Inland Revenue Department website for more information about the tax benefits. Columbia University UK Fund Transnational Giving Europe Columbia University Hong Kong Fund For further questions about making a donation from outside the United States, please e-mail Anthony Colletti ([email protected]) or call 1-212-854-8028. The Tax Advantage of Giving In addition to having a tangible impact on the lives of students, faculty, and alumni of the School, your donation may reduce your income tax, capital gains tax, or estate tax. For example, by donating appreciated securities directly to Columbia Business School, as opposed to donating the proceeds from the sale of those securities, you can avoid capital gains tax on the amount of appreciation. The federal government provides tax incentives for donations of a variety of assets, and your deduction will depend on your individual tax situation. To find out more about the tax advantages of giving to Columbia Business School, please consult your financial advisor. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions