Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > About > Executive Advisory Board Executive Advisory Board ABOUT Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors and Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Business Student Organizations & Industry Societies To better meet the needs of our students and corporate partners, the future employers of TU graduates and the Collins College of Business formed an Executive Advisory Board comprising corporate leaders who serve as a nationwide resource for faculty and students. These top executives provide the college’s leadership with personal insight and advice on how successful national and international companies operate, and what kind of business graduates make the grade in their organizations. With their assistance and guidance, the college continues to develop flexible programs that can be modified as new technology and market developments force companies to rethink how they do business. Mark Abbott (BS ’79, MBA ’85) Principal Project Manager, Retired Phillips 66 Sean Alexander (BSBA ’97) Principal Director – Biz Apps Ecosystem Engineering Microsoft Nevyle Cable (BS ’77) President & Chief Executive Officer, Retired First National Bank & Trust Company Jim Cameron (BS ’66) President Cameron Glass Dax Craig (BSBA ’91) Co-Founder and President Pie Insurance Chris Crawshaw (BS ’88) Managing Director Alamar Capital Management Bob Dennis (BS ’83) Managing Partner, Retired KPMG LLC Jim Dilley (BS ’91) Chairman & CEO American Heritage Bank Clint Dishman (BS ’92, MBA ’97) SVP, Strategic Investment Advisory Group Bank of Oklahoma Kim Fairchild (BSBA ’96) Assurance Partner HoganTaylor LLP Tally Ferguson Senior Vice President, Risk Management Bank of Oklahoma Ralph A. Hill (MBA ’84) CEO and Chairman ETX Energy, LLC Angela Kouplen (MBA ’02) Interim Chief Information Officer The University of Tulsa Paula Kuykendall (BSBA ’86) SVP and Chief Accounting Officer, Retired Hilton Hotels Worldwide John Lindsay (BS ’86) CEO and President Helmerich & Payne Nate Lovelle (BS ’00) Director – Portfolio Management Council Oak Wealth Marc C. Maun (BS ’80) Regional Banking Executive – Arizona, Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, New Mexico and Oklahoma BOK Financial Sharon McElroy (BSBA ’86) Vice President, Marketing McElroy Manufacturing Garrett Mills (BSBA ’06) President and CEO Chandler Hospitality Group Steve Mitchell Director, Business Services Workforce Tulsa Wesley Mitchell Chief Executive Officer Argonaut Private Equity Albert H. Myres, Sr. Group Managing Partner & Chief Business Development Officer OCTCET Inc. Antwane Owens (BSBA ’96) Head of Finance for Tech, Product, New Verticals and Customer Care Chewy Derek Reiners CFO & Treasurer, Retired ONEOK Warren Ross (MBA ’02) CEO The Ross Group Thad Satterfield (BA ’90) Vice President, Talent Acquisition Service King Bradley Stoots (BSBA ’81) Partner Grant Thornton, LLP Rebecca Thompson (BSBA ’00, MAcc ’01) CAO and Treasurer AAON Incorporated Chantal Veevaete (MBA ’90) SVP Human Resources, Retired Phillips 66 EMERITUS MEMBER Jim Miller (BS ’66) Managing Partner, Retired Arthur Andersen, Oklahoma/Arkansas EX-OFFICIO MEMBER Lane Wilson Senior Vice President and General Counsel Williams 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT