Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639693824110 Department of Economics Program Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Specializations Economics Minor Graduate Course Offerings Students Economics Resources Economics Careers Economics Association Business Advising Tutoring Center Business Honors Scholarships Student Recognition Alumni Permit Request Faculty Information Faculty Office Hours Faculty Profiles Faculty Research Faculty Working Papers Series CBA Appointment Notification Centers Center for Economic Education Woods Center FAQ Seminars and Events Contact Us AACSB Accredited Contact Information Department of Economics econclerical@fullerton.edu (657) 278-2228 SGMH 3313 Economics News Loading Blog Feed Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1645552597404 Department of Economics The economics major provides you with a variety of skills that are highly valued by employers. More information on economics majors and the college as a whole is available through the Experience CSUF videos. Or check out the short videos prepared by our economics faculty. These may fully be accessed by utilizing the "More Videos" link. Titan Economist While the world has been locked down during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Cal State Fullerton Department of Economics has been leading the way in research, community involvement and student accomplishments. Read more in Titan Economist (pdf) . Center for Economic Education The Center for Economic Education promotes economic and financial literacy in schools and in the community with a view to achieve upward economic mobility of low-income communities and assesses program effectiveness with high-quality research. Learn more about the Center for Economic Education. Woods Center for Economic Analysis and Forecasting Get the latest outlooks and analysis on the national, regional and local economies from the Woods Center for Economic Analysis and Forecasting. Led by expert economists, the center provides regular updates, forecasts and reports that benefit the Southern California business community. Learn more about the Woods Center. The Economics Association The Economics Association was established to serve students majoring in economics by developing them in becoming the leaders of tomorrow. Learn more about the Economics Association. Current Students: While the campus remains closed for all non-essential personnel, we are still here to help. For advising, please contact our undergraduate advisor Dr. Alberto Rivera-Padilla at ariverapadilla@fullerton.edu or our graduate advisor Dr. Gabriela Best at gbest@fullerton.edu. To contact the department chair, email Dr. Radha Bhattacharya at rbhattachary@fullerton.edu . The department coordinators may be reached at hmcdonald@fullerton.edu or 657-278-2229 (Hugh McDonald) For general assistance, please contact us at econclerical@fullerton.edu, and provide your full name and CWID in your email. If you need a permit to enroll for a class, please fill out this form. For any questions, please email Hugh McDonald at hmcdonald@fullerton.edu. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported