Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected MyCBS Class Notes In Memoriam Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Domestic Clubs International Clubs Affinity Clubs Club Leader Resources Events and Speakers Marketing Geographic Profiles Additional Club Leader Resources Young Alumni Board 2020-2021 Young Alumni Board Young Alumni Resources Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources Self-Assessment Research Professional Branding Networking Interviewing & Managing Offers Professional Development Media Library Job Opportunities CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving 1916 Society Centennial Partners Student Relief Fund Hermes Society Recurring Gifts Second Century Circle Student Philanthropy Major Giving Student Financial Aid Manhattanville Campus Faculty and Research Support Founders' Pledge Program Support Planned Giving Invest in Your Future International Giving Events Events Calendar Recognition Reception Photos Reunion News More Top 20 Alumni Checklist Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Alumni Clubs Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Support the School Events News Stay connected with CBS! Keep your forwarding address up to date. Need to update your forwarding email address? Update it here so that you receive updates from the school and event invitations. Stay in touch on social media channels Follow CBS on social media to keep up to date with the school and catch fun events! Columbia Business School Linkedin Columbia Business School Facebook Columbia Business School YouTube Columbia Business School Twitter: @Columbia_Biz Columbia Business School Instagram: @Columbia_Biz Miss your professors? Audit a class! Need a refresher, miss your professors, want to take that course you missed during your time as a student? Audit a class! More details on the auditing process can be found here. Join your first year reunion committee Excited to return to campus and celebrate your 1st year reunion? Look out for an email at the end of this summer to join your reunion committee! Join an alumni club: Did you know that there are over 80+ alumni clubs worldwide? Connect with your fellow alumni in our domestic clubs, international clubs, and affinity groups to expand your network and attend Columbia Business School alumni events. MBA only initiative Volunteers will assist in evaluating candidates through assessment of their interviewing and communication skills, the quality of their work experience, and the match of the applicant with Columbia Business School. Mentor a second year student via CBS Hub A new resource for students and alumni, the platform is designed to encourage meaningful connections with Business School colleagues who want to share their wisdom. Visit CBS Hub to find out more. Take a class on Alumni Edge A new lifelong learning initiative to support the career development of alumni, this series of programs represents some of the School's most popular courses and mirrors the lessons that our current students are taught in the classroom today. Have leftover bidding points? Use them towards the cost of an Executive Education course. Any leftover bidding points can be put towards the cost of an Executive Education course. To find out more about courses and the process email [email protected]. Activate your account on My CBS Be on the lookout for more information soon about MyCBS, Columbia Business School’s newest online alumni community! Attend Reunion weekend We are excited to welcome you back to campus for Reunion next April! Save the date, and lookout for more information about signing up in January 2021. Join the Women’s Circle This initiative serves to cultivate an engaged and supportive community among alumnae, faculty, and students; strengthen partnerships between women business leaders and Columbia Business School; and celebrate the philanthropic leadership and collective impact of alumnae. Membership includes special invitations to salon receptions with current faculty, industry conferences, and networking events throughout the year. For more information visit the Women’s Circle page. Set up your email forwarding You will have 90 days after graduation to set up a forwarding address for your GSB email. After that time your GSB email will no longer have inbox or send capabilities. Visit the Columbia Alumni Center Visit the Columbia Alumni Center at 622 W. 113th Street. Specifically designed for alumni use, the center includes a lounge, library, seminar room, and courtesy office. Swing by to check our yearbooks, explore your university alumni benefits, and enjoy free coffee! Host a Uris Plugged or Virtual Hangout Interested in connecting with student? Contact Lauren Muliawan at [email protected] for more information on hosting a Uris Plugged or Virtual Hangout session. Visit the Alumni website Now that you are graduated, you have alumni access to the alumni website. Take a look around and find out more about your alumni benefits. Submit a class note Share your success, marriages, commitments, births, and career transitions with fellow alumni! All class notes are published on the Alumni website. Take advantage of your access to CBS Career Management Both on-line resources and live coaching are available to you. Hire CBS! If you seek top talent as your career progresses, consider posting a job on the CBS job board; and use the job board to find new opportunities. Get your alumni ID card at the Library Information Office in Butler 201 Free with photo ID, your alumni card is valid for 6 years and provides access to any library on campus. Borrowing privileges are $30 a month. Most resources remotely available through the CU Libraries will remain active to students for 6 months after graduation (11/30/20). After that point, alumni will still have remote access to resources listed here or you can visit the campus libraries in person to access resources. For more information on your alumni library privileges, click here. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions