Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1652745853831 Undergraduate Business Advising About Advising Hours Meet Your Advisors Major Requirements and Roadmaps BA in Business Administration BA in Economics BA in International Business BABA (Online Program) Petitions and Forms Add/Drop Classes Repeat Exception Petition Request of Excess Units Change of Major/Minor International Student Forms Registration and Records Forms Business Minors Newly Admitted Students Associate Degree for Transfer Registration Practicum Pathways Declare a Concentration Ethics Requirement Mentoring Program Regain Academic Success Graduation FAQ Business Honors Program Study Abroad Make an Appointment Contact Information Business Advising Center BusinessAdvising@fullerton.edu (657) 278-2211 SGMH 1201 Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1649277416076 BA in Economics Requirement Sheets and Roadmaps The Requirement Sheets and Roadmaps are tools you can use to help plan your class schedule. However, you will need to follow the degree requirements found in your Titan Degree Audit (TDA) to ensure that you are enrolling in appropriate courses for your degree. Students interested in economics may choose to pursue the BA in Economics or the BA in Business Administration with a concentration in Business Economics. The BA in Economics requires fewer business courses, allowing greater opportunity to study economics as a social science. Both degrees provide a good foundation for advanced studies in business, economics, law, public administration, and environmental studies. You can view the Requirement Sheet and Roadmap for your catalog year below. Your catalog year is located on the top right corner of your TDA. For details, visit the website on Understanding Your Catalog Year. Requirement Sheet and Roadmap: BA Economics - Catalog Year 2021-2022 (PDF) Requirement Sheet and Roadmap: BA Economics - Catalog Year 2020-2021 (PDF) Requirement Sheet and Roadmap: BA Economics - Catalog Year 2019-2020 (PDF) Requirement Sheet and Roadmap: BA Economics - Catalog Year 2018-2019 (PDF) Requirement Sheet and Roadmap: BA Economics - Catalog Year 2017-2018 (PDF) NOTE: Current students majoring in a non-business degree must first meet with a Business Advisor to change your major to any of the college’s business degrees. If you are unable to find an appointment, you can request to have the change of major overview conducted via email. Please email businessadvising@fullerton.edu with the following: First and Last Name CWID Major/Concentration of interest Full time or Part time enrollment for next semester's schedule Once we receive this information, we will send you an email with a detailed overview of the major and a class schedule recommendation. You will then be able to request to change your major to the College of Business and Economics. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported