Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected MyCBS Class Notes In Memoriam Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Domestic Clubs International Clubs Affinity Clubs Club Leader Resources Events and Speakers Marketing Geographic Profiles Additional Club Leader Resources Young Alumni Board 2020-2021 Young Alumni Board Young Alumni Resources Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources Self-Assessment Research Professional Branding Networking Interviewing & Managing Offers Professional Development Media Library Job Opportunities CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving 1916 Society Centennial Partners Student Relief Fund Hermes Society Recurring Gifts Second Century Circle Student Philanthropy Major Giving Student Financial Aid Manhattanville Campus Faculty and Research Support Founders' Pledge Program Support Planned Giving Invest in Your Future International Giving Events Events Calendar Recognition Reception Photos Reunion News More Lifetime Email Forwarding Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Alumni Clubs Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Support the School Events News Lifetime Email Forwarding Your lifetime email is a permanent forwarding service that redirects email to your personal or business mailbox. This enables alumni to keep in touch with one another as they move and change jobs. A non-Columbia email address is necessary for forwarding in order to use your Lifetime email. To update your lifetime email forwarding, use your UNI to log in here, and click on "Email forwarding" in the left-hand menu. Student e-mail inboxes expire within 90 days of graduating, so please update this information as soon as possible upon graduation. How does lifetime email forwarding work? Your lifetime email is a permanent forwarding vehicle where email gets redirected to your personal or business mailbox and enables alumni to keep in touch with one another as they move and change jobs. A non-Columbia email address is necessary in order to receive and respond to your forwarded email. Please note that you cannot log into your lifetime email to send emails. You can only have emails sent to that address and then redirected to your personal email account. How can I update my email address? To update your lifetime email forwarding, use your UNI to log in here, and click on "Email forwarding" in the left-hand menu. Remember to click the “Save” button after making all changes to ensure your email address is updated in the School’s records. I graduated recently. How long can I still access my student email account and how do I set up my alumni lifetime email forwarding address? As you transition from student to alumni, you will need to close out your GSB Mail account and set your lifetime forwarding address to an email account of your choice. You can do this anytime within 90 days of graduation but we suggest you do so as soon as possible. After 90 days, your email account will automatically terminate and the contents of the account will be lost. If you have any questions or concerns regarding retrieving your student email correspondence, please contact the Student Technology Center at [email protected]. I no longer want to receive any communications from Columbia Business School. How do I do this? There are three kinds of communication restrictions that can be placed on an alumni account. These restrictions are: email restriction (you will no longer receive any emails), mailing restriction (you will no longer receive any mailings), and no contact (you will no longer receive any communications). Once you have decided what restriction you would like placed on your account, please contact us directly at [email protected] or call us at 212-854-8815 and we will note the change in our records. Why don’t my test messages show up? The vast majority of email service providers will not deliver messages you send from your forwarding email address to your Lifetime email address. Most email security systems interpret these messages as phishing attempts. If you would like to check whether your Lifetime email address is delivering messages, send a test from an account not associated with your alumni profile. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions