Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact Corporate and Executive Education Our non-degree programs are all about transforming people and organizations through learning. We are committed to our partners in the business community to bring the best and most relevant learning programs and services straight to you. Make learning a strategic advantage for your organization. In this Section Programs Custom Solutions Instructors Staff FAQ Contact Us Learning Resources Project Management Certificate The demand for certified Project Management Professionals grows every year and is relevant in every industry. Whether you’re looking to attain the PMP® or CAPM® credentials, or build skills, the University of Louisville’s Project Management courses can help. Learn More Positive Leadership Certificate Learn the fundamentals of Positive Leadership in this certificate from UofL Executive Education. Learn More Transformative Leadership Certificate Now more than ever, a team’s success is built upon the chemistry between teammates, paced by stable, agile leadership. From self-reflection to practical application, optimize your team’s performance and become a more effective leader. Learn More Communication Certificate Effective communication at all levels will lead to a company’s success. These career-changing insights are designed to open the ears and minds of experienced and non-experienced communicators to achieve a greater impact on an organization. Learn More Dare to Lead™ Certificate The Dare to Lead™ certificate is based on the research of Dr. Brené Brown and presented by a Certified Dare to Lead™ Facilitator. Learn More Franchise Management Certificate Regardless if you’re just getting started as a franchisee or looking to expand an already growing enterprise, enrich your skillset with critical insights and practical knowledge, empowering you to embrace your full entrepreneurial potential. Learn More Grant Writing Certificate Whether you're looking to improve your grant writing skills or master them, our grant writing courses will help you learn how to secure funding for your next project. Learn More Custom Solutions UofL Executive Education offers learning solutions designed for your specific team needs. Get the targeted training you need when you need it. Learn More Learn more about how we can develop customized strategic learning initiatives in your organization. Build a more productive workforce and a profitable company. Julijana Curcic Program Manager (502)852-5636 julijana.curcic@louisville.edu Alex Bryant Program Manager (502)852-4620 alex.bryant@louisville.edu Manuela Perri Business Development Manager (502)852-4821 manuela.perri@louisville.edu Contact Us Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish