Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Jolt @ TU Business JOLT highlights the exponential changes impacting rapidly developing industries – such as health care, artificial intelligence, gene editing, media, finance, energy and more – and equips students to become innovative problem-solvers. Pizza Box Challenge What creative ideas can you come up with for repurposing a bunch of (clean) pizza boxes? Use your creativity skills to design something innovative and that creates value for the user. Compete against other TU teams for a year’s worth of free pizza from Mazzio’s. What is JOLT @ TU Business? JOLT is a new space in The University of Tulsa’s Collins College of Business. The center creates an energizing and inviting space for students to take calculated risks, grow their talents and discover their true potential. JOLT promotes these TU initiatives: a minor in innovation and entrepreneurship with courses open to all students an inspiring, flexible, thought-provoking physical space in Helmerich Hall near the heart of campus opportunities, equipment and seed funding for student-run businesses and projects on campus interactive workshops to improve collaboration and design-thinking skills funding for course development grants to faculty leadership opportunities through TEDxUTulsa, Day of Innovation and other student activities friendly challenges to advance innovative thinking skills a speaker series with professionals who emphasize the future of work interdisciplinary teams competing at SXSW, Love’s Cup, Venture Well E-teams, etc. JOLT@ TU Business provides TU students with the high-octane fuel needed to rapidly accelerate on the superhighway they will enter upon graduation and spark high-voltage careers! I’m Interested! Tell Me More Every organization needs agile, collaborative, creative leaders and employees. TU students have the talent to fill this need. JOLT prepares students to address emerging challenges and identify future opportunities. Because innovation is a function of convergence, a diversity of vantage points among many fields of study is crucial. JOLT is based in Collins College of Business but is open to students from every degree program – the arts and humanities; social and physical sciences; technology and engineering; health care and law. JOLT builds upon TU’s strong foundation as a diverse and dynamic ecosystem where students can find resources and experiences necessary to successfully chart their chosen career path. JOLT BLOG Read More News Creativity can be your superpower ‘How I Built This’ Podcast Where good ideas come from… 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT