Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639440266835 Business Community Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Calendar Hiring Business Students Support the College Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1637006143044 Business Community Engagement Cal State Fullerton's business college is privileged to engage with the community through the contributions of an active network of Southern California professionals through its boards and councils, which represent a wide range of industries and diverse perspectives. Membership in these select groups of business leaders provides opportunities to impact the next generation of professionals, guide the college in the development and execution of its strategic vision, meet and connect with fellow business minds, and provide mutually beneficial thought leadership. Dean’s Advisory Board Committed to ensuring the positioning of the college as the premier business education provider in the Golden State, the Dean’s Advisory Board, founded in 2003, provides visionary guidance and support from Southern California senior business executives in a wide range of industries, ensuring that the college’s leadership is attuned to the needs and trends of the contemporary business community. Executive Council Committed to assisting the college with acumen and experience from the business community, mentoring opportunities and scholarships for students, and financial support for services that ensure the best outcomes for the college’s diverse student body, the business leaders that comprise the Executive Council serve as an active group of advisors to the college’s dean, senior leadership and faculty. Executive Council members have the opportunity to uniquely impact the lives of the next generation of business leaders, while also tapping into a pool of new talent for their companies and organizations. Executive in Residence Program Leading Southern California professionals, including the college's alumni and friends, make an impact on the next generation as one-on-one mentors, guest lecturers, and teachers of full-length courses through the college's Executive in Residence program. Bringing business leaders to campus bridges the gap between classroom learning and real-world applied business knowledge, thus better preparing business students for careers after graduation. The program seeks leaders from across the business spectrum. Departments The college’s six academic departments – Accounting, Economics, Finance, Information Systems and Decision Sciences, Management and Marketing – directly facilitate the academic programs, while also supporting opportunities for student professional development and career readiness. Each of these departments actively seek the insight and connections of professionals in the relevant field to provide thought leadership and strategic advising, career connections for students, and lecturing or speakership opportunities. Each department should be contacted individually for information on such opportunities. Centers and Institutes Serving as the connection between academics and industry, our college's Centers of Excellence support focused mentoring, networking, research and advising for the Southern California professional community and connections and applied experience with subsets of business for the college’s students and alumni. Each of the college’s centers and institutes rely on the expertise and support of business professionals and corporate/organizational supporters to fulfill their mission. Each entity should be contacted individually for information on ways to get involved. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported