Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact In this Section Academics & Programs Apply Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Executive Education Equine Industry Program Global Study Cost Comparison Dual Degree International Exchange Students Global Study Student Experience Graduate Programs Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Personalized MBA Career Outcomes APPLY Global Study Distance has a gravity all its own. Discover yourself by exploring the world. Regardless of the destination, the business world becomes smaller through every mile you travel. Students can spend as short as ten days or as long as a year. There are many options available. How long a student goes abroad will also determine how many credits they earn for their time abroad and the overall costs of their program. The University of Louisville has many places around the world for students’ participation in education abroad. Through a variety of campus-sponsored programs, exchanges, and program providers, we are able to make a wide variety of locations available to students. Please keep in mind, not all locations are available or may not offer the courses a student requires for their academic program. UofL undergraduate admissions page for International Students Planning: Education abroad is meant to enhance your academic progress. Discussing your options as early as possible will ensure that it is an enriching experience. A student may start meeting with the education abroad advisor during their first semester at the University of Louisville. By meeting early with the education abroad advisor, students can ensure that the time abroad will meet their academic needs while still being able to actively participate in campus life, pursue leadership opportunities, and find internships. Learn more about securing your passport. Cost/financial assistance: Exchange programs offer College of Business students the opportunity to get education abroad while paying just a little more than university tuition. Students get an enhanced education experience with the benefit of a global perspective. Extensive financial assistance in the form of travel grants for all College of Business majors in good standing. College of Business partners The University of Louisville has many places around the world for students’ participation in education abroad. Through a variety of campus-sponsored programs, exchanges, and program providers, we are able to make a wide variety of locations available to students. Please keep in mind, not all locations are available or may not offer the courses a student requires for their academic program. The College of Business offers almost 20 exchanges to the following locations: CHINA Beijing Foreign Studies University Nankai University Business School Shanghai University of International Business and Economics CROATIA: Zagreb School of Economics and Management FRANCE Audencia School of Management KEDGE ESSEC University of Montpellier 1 GERMANY European Business School Hochschule Heilbronn Hochschule Munchen Leipzig Graduate School of Management (MBA only) HOLLAND: The Hague University HUNGARY: Corvinus University NORWAY: Norwegian School of Economics POLAND: Kozminski RUSSIA: Perm SCOTLAND: University of Edinburgh SPAIN:UC3 Madrid Do not see where you want to go? Look through the University’s affiliated third-party providers for more options. UofL Arts & Sciences Study Abroad Program UofL International Service Learning Program Learn more about international student requirements: UofL undergraduate admissions page for International Students Still need help? Contact Us Elizabeth K. Liebschutz Roettger Education Abroad and International Coordinator UofL College of Business COB Student Life MBA/MAC+ International Study Trip International Exchange Students Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish