Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact In this Section Current Students Undergraduate Advising & Assistance Reinhardt Advising Center UofL REACH Center Undergraduate Academic Guidelines GPA & Standings Applying for a Minor Choosing/Changing Majors Credit Hour Requirements Drop/Withdraw/Repeat Class Advising Staff BizComm BizComm Rubrics & Publications BizComm Access Request BizComm Rubrics BizComm Publications Facilities & Technology Virtual Desktop COB Computer Labs Undergraduate Internships & Co-ops Scholarships & Awards Undergrad Scholarships & Awards Graduate Scholarships & Awards Student Organizations & Clubs Theory of Constraints (TOC) Resource Center TOC Resources TOC Video Series TOC Research Publications TOC Experiential Learning Exercises Excel-Based Dice Game Model TOC Web Apps Tuition & Costs Student Rights & Policies Honors Program & Dean’s List Staff & Faculty Directory Staff & Faculty Resources College of Business Technology Resources Computer Labs H & I Drives Access Events Scheduling Request Maintenance Request Policies & Guidelines Online Evaluations Share Your Successes (Authority) Press & Media About the College Find an Expert Press Kits & Related Media Public Relations & Marketing Team Employers Recruitment Events BUMP Mentoring Program Posting a Job Contact Current Student Resources Shop UofL College of Business Gear Advising and Career Support Undergraduate Advising & Assistance Stay on course for graduation with the help of our academic advisors. Learn More Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Center offers students and alumni a wide range of lifelong career services. Learn More BizComm UofL’s innovative BizComm curriculum has been specially designed to help students develop business-specific writing and speaking skills. Learn More UofL REACH Center REACH seeks to improve students’ academic performance, college life, and to support retention of undergraduate students. Learn More Financial Aid Resources Scholarships & Awards Our donors recognize your potential and promise. Discover awards and opportunities to have your efforts recognized. Learn More Tuition & Costs Information on tuition for our range of degrees and programs Learn More General Resources General University Resources Your guide to UofL campus-wide services including financial aid, library, and technology — as well as resources for international students and the military. Learn More Facilities & Technology The College of Business provides students with study areas for groups to congregate to work or relax. Learn More Internships Graduate Internships Competitive paid internship opportunities are a cornerstone of the MBA/MSBA/MAC+ experience. Learn More Undergraduate Internships & Co-ops Gain real-world experience and a head start on your career with an internship. Learn More Additional Resources Theory of Constraints (TOC) Resource Center This resource center has been specially designed to create TOC enthusiasts to further solidify their understanding of TOC concepts, principles, and tools. It is our desire to create a TOC learning community by sharing our knowledge and creating partnerships to further TOC knowledge base. TOC Resource Center Student Rights & Responsibilities Honors Program & Dean’s List Academic Standing Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish