Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > About > Points of Pride Points of Pride ABOUT Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors and Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Business Student Organizations & Industry Societies 2021 OK CFA Research Challenge winners 2021 Seven students named University Innovation Fellows by Stanford’s University’s Hasso Plattner Institute of Design 2020 Sumners Foundation Scholar 2019 and 2020 Investment Portfolio Challenge winners 2017, 2019 and 2020 Southwest Cyber Defense Competition winners and National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition qualifiers 2020 Love’s Cup Winners – first place undergraduate division and third place graduate division 2020 Recognized as a Best Business School – MBA by The Princeton Review® 100% placement rate for the MBA, Master of Accountancy and Master of Energy Business programs (2019) 30% of student-athletes are pursuing business degrees $8 million portfolio managed by students in the Student Investment Fund course and more than $1 million in finance scholarships awarded from earnings of the fund. Since 1949, the Collins College of Business has been accredited by AACSB International (Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business). Both the undergraduate Energy Management program and the online Master of Energy Business program are accredited by the AAPL, the American Association of Professional Landmen 2020 Best University in Oklahoma by WalletHub. One of the most amazing things about The University of Tulsa is … Tulsa! Check it out here! 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT