Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business See you next year at Conference of Accountants Helmerich Hall #215 The University of Tulsa 800 South Tucker Drive Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104 918-631-3625 Map Email ACCOUNTING & CIS Accounting Undergraduate Programs Accounting Graduate Programs Computer Information Systems Conference of Accountants Faculty News Contact the Department May 12-13, 2022 Thank you for your support of the Conference of Accountants! CPE certificates will be emailed by May 25. Conference of Accountants Presented by The University of Tulsa Collins College of Business (Virtual Conference) Celebrating 75 Years! The Conference of Accountants evolved from a series of annual meetings begun in 1947 by Professor Emeritus Paul J. Graber. The Collins College of Business at The University of Tulsa acts as host providing event management and facilities (as appropriate) for the event. Since 1950, the Conference has been directed by a Planning Committee composed of representatives of the co-sponsoring professional organizations and by members of TU’s School of Accounting and Computer Information Systems. An Advisory Board, made up of area accounting professionals, provides counsel and assistance. Contact Cristina Smith Williams for more information. Each Conference typically includes speakers drawn from organizations that impact accounting policy, including: Securities and Exchange Commission Federal Reserve Bank Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Financial Accounting Standards Board American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Institute of Management Accountants Tax Executives Institute Certified Fraud Examiners Institute of Internal Auditors Accounting speakers have also been provided by national & regional accounting firms such as PricewaterhouseCoopers, Ernst & Young, KPMG, Deloitte and Grant Thornton. Leaders in the business community, representing both local and national companies have participated in our conference as keynote speakers. Past participants from the political arena have included the Lieutenant Governor, State Treasurer, Mayor of Tulsa and the Attorney General. Many of our speakers have been recommended or provided by our Planning Committee members who represent the following sponsoring organizations for the Conference: Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Financial Executives Institute The Institute of Internal Auditors Institute of Management Accountants Tulsa Chapter, Oklahoma Society of CPAs Tax Executives Institute Planned 2022 Topics Include: Financial Accounting Standards Board Security and Exchange Commission Federal Tax Update McGirt ESG (Environment, Social, Governance) Federal Reserve Update State Economic Update Ethics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Cryptocurrency Personal Cybersecurity Big Data/Data Analytics Proceeds from the conference are used to provide scholastic awards to promising undergraduate and graduate accounting students. Since 2004, the conference has awarded almost $330,000. Additionally, our attendees can earn up to 15 hours (planned) of CPE for CPA or other certification continuing education requirements. Please check back for CPE updates. Program Knowledge Level: Basic | Prerequisites: None | Advance Preparation: None Registration & CPE Information Registration information Full Conference: $315 One Day: $195 Register CPE information To receive CPE credits, participants must verify that their names are clearly represented in the chat for each session and answer three participation questions per session. In addition, the “raise hand” feature may be used during sessions to record participation. If attending all sessions, participants will earn 15 CPE credits (planned). Check back for updates. Prerequisites: None Advanced Preparation: None Program Level: Basic Delivery Method: Group Internet Based Program (Virtual delivery) Conference of Accountants hosted by The University of Tulsa is registered with the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) as a sponsor of continuing professional education on the National Registry of CPE Sponsors. State boards of accountancy have final authority on the acceptance of individual courses for CPE credit. Complaints regarding registered sponsors may be submitted to the National Registry of CPE Sponsors through its website: www.nasbaregistry.org. Questions If you have questions regarding the program or registration email Cristina Smith Williams. Refund Policy & Program Cancellation Policy Refund Policy If registration is canceled by May 6, 2022, a refund will be granted but subject to a $25 cancellation fee. Registrant will receive full refund minus $25 service fee. No refunds granted after May 6. Substitutions are permitted. For information regarding administrative policies or concerns, cancellations, registration substitutions, and other inquiries, please contact Cristina Smith Williams by email or at 918-631-3625. Program Cancellation Policy If the conference or any part of the conference is canceled, all registrants will be notified via email. If there is a speaker or program cancellation or substitution, the conference organizers will notify registrants by email, as well as the conference website. Agenda Bios, session descriptions, and learning objectives coming soon! Thursday, May 12 8:15 AM Welcome 8:30 AM Oklahoma Lieutenant Governor Matt Pinnell Topic: Oklahoma Economic Update 9:30 AM Mike McBride, Chair, Indian Law & Gaming Practice, Director, Crowe & Dunlevy Topic: McGirt Update 11:00 AM Adriana Yepes, Supervising Project Manager at Financial Accounting Standards Board Topic: FASB Update 11:50 AM Lunch Break 12:30 PM Marjorie Whittaker, Managing Director, ESG & Sustainability, Grant Thornton Topic: ESG Disclosure Update 1:30 PM Jonathan Kimmitt, Chief Information Security Officer, IT, The University of Tulsa Topic: Cybersecurity, It's Now Personal! 2:30 PM Richard Levin, Chair, FinTech and Regulation Practice, Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough, LLP Geron Morgan, CPA, Partner, BKD National Financial Services Group Natalie Parker, EVP, Chief Risk Officer, Vast Bank Brad Scrivner, President and CEO of Vast Bank Moderator: Dr. Akhilesh Bajaj, Director School of Accounting and CIS, The University of Tulsa Topic: Cryptocurrency 4:00 PM State Auditor Cindy Byrd Topic: Audit Friday, May 13 8:15 AM Welcome 8:30 AM Chad Wilkerson, VP & OKC Branch Exec Federal Reserve Bank of KC Topic: Federal Reserve Update 9:30 AM John Gimigliano, Principal-in-Charge, Federal Legislative and Regulatory Services Topic: The Biden Tax Plan, Dead or Alive? 10:30 AM Brad Skinner, Office Chief, Office of Energy and Transportation, Division of Corporate Finance Topic: The SEC's Division of Corporate Finance - Overview and Update 11:30 AM Tim Haskell, Senior Digital and Workforce Transformation Advisor, EY Topic: Work Reimagined: How workforce rebalancing is building pressure in the talent pipeline 12:20 PM Lunch Break 1:00 PM Vincent Rodriguez, Applications Architect Business Intelligence, ONEOK Topic: Big Data/Data Analytics 2:00 PM Kelli McLoud-Schingen, VP for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, The University of Tulsa Topic: Fostering an Inclusive Workplace 3:00 PM Kathy Taylor, Dean of the Collins College of Business, The University of Tulsa Topic: Ethics 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT