Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact What we're building Prepared students. Rewarding careers. Invigorated communities. Excellence in every endeavor. In this Section Accreditation COB Student Life Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion Leadership & Admin LEAP Learning at COB Life in Louisville Our Campus College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The College of Business at the University of Louisville enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Lifetime Support Bolster your career with access to high-value, focused programs, local and global opportunities, and free career support for life. Learn More Dig Deeper 95% Graduate program graduation rate $75,680 Average starting salary of MBA graduate 52 Full-time graduate students #73 Best Public Institutions (Kiplinger's Best College Values) View More Our approach We are educating tomorrow’s leaders. We are a diverse, inclusive, and supporting community. We value risk-taking, inquisitiveness, and practical experience. All tied together with a commitment to excellence. LEAP is an acronym that represents what is unique about the College of Business. These points of distinction define our intent and guide our activities as we LEAP forward. Learn More The College of Business and our connection to Louisville "Of Louisville" through and through The University of Louisville’s College of Business is deeply and deliberately “of Louisville.” We build upon the city’s strengths and we contribute to those strengths in purposeful and reciprocal ways. We are committed to making all of Louisville and all of its citizens better as, at the same time, the city defines us and grounds our strategies and programs. Discover Welcome to Louisville COB Student Life Life at UofL is about what happens outside the classroom, as much as in it. Mission, Vision, and Values Our focus, commitment, and value statement. Life in Louisville UofL is deeply and intrinsically connected to the city. Discover that connection. Our Campus Diverse and vibrant—campus life is constantly in motion. Louisville's Leaders Entrepreneurs, visionaries, philanthropists, and community activists. All committed to our mission and goals. Learn more Todd A. Mooradian, PhD Dean, College of Business Read Dean Mooradian's letter Accreditation We’re committed to excellence. Browse our rankings and accreditations. Accreditation News & Stories Setting the Bar “Online MBA (OMBA) has a near and dear place in my heart,” says Dr. Zachary Goldman, who serves as the... Read More Class Notes: Spring 2022 From wedding and birth announcements to job promotions and career changes, news from our alumni. Read More First Comes Love. Then Comes Charcuterie. "That was when I realized it could be an actual business." Read More Dr. Ryan Quinn Featured on Podcast The Academic Director of the Project on Positive Leadership, Dr. Ryan Quinn, was featured on Yes and Know, a podcast... Read More Government Policies Effect on Health Outcomes Recently, Jose Fernandez, PhD, has studied the effect of medical marijuana policies on opioid-related hospital admissions. Read More Empower Engagement “I’m so proud of all the young women succeeding. It’s just so empowering, isn’t it?” says Denise Spalding, president and... Read More Entrepreneurship and Music Minor ANNOUNCEMENT: The College of Business and School of Music partner to launch new minor – Entrepreneurship in the Music Industry... Read More GBAC Networking “We have an awesome opportunity to help take the Graduate Business Programs to the next level by having a high-quality group of active alumni.” Read More Q&A with The Whitakers Robert and Odile Whitaker are the founders of the Whitaker Endowed Scholarship Fund... Read More Empower Identity College of Business alum Brevin Woodford returned to campus in early 2021 as an employee for his alma mater. Read More Previous Next Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish