Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Graduate Business Programs Experiential learning MBA students develop plan to expand education for vulnerable Tulsans 918-631-2336 Helmerich Hall, 215 Map Email https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3MTSz_3ILJE GRADUATE BUSINESS PROGRAMS Apply Now Financing Your Degree Faculty News Contact Grad Business Programs Request Information As a graduate business student, you will embark on a professional learning journey that capitalizes on your skills and provides a solid business foundation. At The University of Tulsa, we are committed to helping you succeed in this journey. Whether your interest is in executive management, sophisticated quantitative models or the intricacies of tax accounting, we have a graduate program to take your career to the next level. Now accepting applications for admission Online Graduate Application Program Options Full-Time MBA: Partnering with Business The Collins College of Business full-time MBA will assist you in developing critical thinking skills by immersing you in real-world situations that teach you new ways to think about and solve problems. The three-semester cohort program includes a project course in the last semester in which students work as teams of business advisers on real consulting projects within local businesses and organizations. Our rigorous curriculum combined with experiential learning in an extremely personal environment will set you apart from the competition and prepare you to lead an organization through future business challenges. MBA for Working Professionals The Collins College of Business MBA for Working Professionals program is an evening program designed for those with full-time employment who wish to sharpen their business skills and enhance their career advancement opportunities. During the regular semesters, each course meets one night per week. Classes are small, resulting in an extremely personal environment. Real-world cases and current events are incorporated into classes, which will assist you in developing critical thinking skills and teach you new ways to think about and solve problems. Completion of the MBA will set you apart in the workplace and prepare you to take a leadership role in business. Master of Science in Business Analytics The Collins College of Business MS in Business Analytics targets the education of students in the analysis, interpretation and prediction capabilities of large sets of data. This program will help students master the technical tools necessary to perform the analysis of a variety of data but will also allow them to specialize in a discipline-specific area. Furthermore, coursework will develop the communication skills of students, a key component to employment and success in the field. Master of Accountancy The Collins College of Business MAcc prepares students to apply discipline-specific knowledge and skills to provide the foundation for a successful career in accounting. The program allows students to develop critical thinking skills, as well as foster an understanding of the strategic role of accounting in business organizations and society. The 30 hour MAcc degree program can be completed in as little as 12 months, satisfying requirements for CPA exam eligibility for many students. Students without an undergraduate degree in accounting can become CPA compliant with additional courses. Master of Energy Business (Online) The online Master of Energy Business is a professional graduate program designed for working professionals with backgrounds in engineering, geosciences, law, business, and related disciplines who seek to advance their careers in the energy industry. The degree blends sound business principles and skills with contemporary energy issues and perspectives to create an extraordinarily focused educational experience. The primary objective is to train individuals to become strong managers, problem solvers and idea generators so they can add value to their companies and the industry. About Graduate Business Programs As a graduate business student you will embark on a professional learning journey that capitalizes on your skills and provides a solid business foundation. At The University of Tulsa we are committed to helping you succeed in this journey. Faculty With a low student-to-faculty ratio, you will never be a “number” to our professors. We have more than 30 full-time graduate faculty members. Passionate, approachable, and accessible, they are able to combine academic theory with real world experience. Scholarships Four out of five of our graduate business students receive some form of financial assistance, either through scholarships, graduate assistantships or company tuition-reimbursement. Talk with one of our advisers and let them show you just how affordable The University of Tulsa can be. Program Flexibility Whether you are interested in a full-time, part-time or online graduate business program, we have programs that fit your schedule and learning style. Your undergraduate degree can be from any field of study, and professional work experience is not always necessary. Placement Long before you even arrive, our Career Center is laying the groundwork to help launch or further your career. More than 200 companies annually turn to The University of Tulsa to hire our graduates. Fully Accredited Programs Our Graduate Business degree programs are all accredited by AACSB International – The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, the highest standard of achievement for business schools. The breadth and depth of our academic resources, combined with program flexibility and scholarship availability, offer our students unparalleled opportunities. Whether your interest is in executive management, sophisticated quantitative models or the intricacies of tax accounting, we have a graduate program to take your career to the next level. Profile of our Students Enrollment: 229 Average Age: 31 International Students: 14% Middle 50% range GMAT Scores: 540-640 If you have any questions or if you would like additional information regarding any of our graduate programs, please contact Graduate Business Programs. Student Opportunities Learning Beyond the Classroom The Collins College of Business offers forums for learning beyond the classroom and networking with the community. Students are encouraged to take advantage of these opportunities throughout their time on campus. GBSA – The Graduate Business Student Association provides networking and socializing opportunities for students as well as serving as a coordinating body for student teams participating in academic competitions. Friends of Finance – Friends of Finance is an organization of business professionals, TU alumni, and supporters of the TU College of Business Administration. Members share a passion for business–particularly finance and operations management–and are committed to helping TU gain national prominence in these areas. Mentor Program – Students and alumni in Graduate Business Programs are encouraged to participate in the Mentor Program. Each fall students are introduced to alumni who are professionals in an area of interest to the student. The mentor is then able to share experiences, advice, networking opportunities, etc. with the student. Students have opportunities throughout the year to meet high-level executives and gain industry insight that only professionals can offer. If you’re alumni wondering how you can give back, this is a great opportunity! GSA – GSA is a multipurpose organization designed to bring the graduate student community closer together. GSA hosts social and networking events to encourage interdisciplinary discussion between students, participates in community service events both on and off campus for community enrichment, teaches seminars on life skills, and promotes relationships between the undergraduate and graduate students by holding open events that allow undergraduates an opportunity to talk freely about graduate school. Love’s Cup Competition – The Love’s Entrepreneur’s Cup is a statewide undergraduate & graduate business plan competition designed to encourage students to act upon their ideas and talents in order to produce tomorrow’s businesses. This competition is aimed at simulating the real-world process of entrepreneurs creating a business plan to soliciting start-up funds from potential investors. Students involved in this competition gain access to networks of successful entrepreneurs, lenders and investors, team building opportunities, business planning skills, and media exposure. Foundation Courses Since many of our incoming Graduate Business students have conflicts with on-campus classes or work commitments, we decided this newly available online program might be the answer. Your book is included in and is the foundation of the course. You will read a chapter, complete assigned exercises and then take a quiz after each chapter. The average completion time for each foundation course is about 15-25 hours depending on the course and your background. Students must score 80% or better on the final 90-minute exam, so it pays to take a little time on the chapters. GBP Foundation Course: Business Math And Statistics GBP Foundation Course: Business Law Essentials GBP Foundation Course: Excel for MBA Students GBP Foundation Course: Fundamentals Of Economics 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT