Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Exec Ed Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Wharton on Business Radio 132 Menu Home Listen to the Wharton Business Daily Podcast Business Radio Stories Wharton on Business Radio 132 Wharton Business Daily Listen to the Podcast Innovators and business leaders take on the latest news, trends, and issues. Wharton Business Daily is a dynamic new morning show airing live from the Wharton School on SiriusXM Channel 132. The show offers listeners the latest news and the most fascinating breaking trends with an emphasis on issues impacting both consumers and the business world. Each day Wharton Business Daily will air segments featuring top business leaders, innovators and renowned Wharton faculty discussing topics that really matter and that draw from the School’s unique and deep expertise across its ten academic areas. Wharton Business Daily airs live from 10 a.m. to 12 noon ET from the Wharton School’s Philadelphia campus on SiriusXM Channel 132. Subscribe to the Wharton Business Daily Podcast to catch selected segments of the show: Apple Podcasts – Google Podcasts – Stitcher – Audible – iHeart Radio – Pocket Casts. Hosted by Dan Loney Follow us on Twitter @WhartonBizDaily More From Wharton Wharton Moneyball How decision makers in sports can avoid the common mistakes and embrace the data. Hosted by Shane Jensen, Adi Wyner, Cade Massey and Eric Bradlow Live Wednesdays 8-10 AM EST on SiriusXM 132 View Show Page Marketing Matters Analysis and research into advertising, marketing, customer behavior, and new product launches. Hosted by Barbara Kahn and Americus Reed. Live Wednesday 5-6 PM Eastern on SiriusXM 132. View Show Page Work and Life Career, family, community, and self (mind, body, spirit) – how to create harmony and improve performance in all parts of life. Hosted by Stew Friedman Live Thursdays 5-6 PM EST on SiriusXM 132 View Show Page Behind the Markets Hows and why behind market performance and what’s ahead for the economy and your portfolio. Hosted by Jeremy Schwartz, Jeremy Siegel and Liqian Ren, Ph.D. Live Fridays 12-1 PM EST on SiriusXM 132 View Show Page Women@Work Discover innovative practices for personal and system change to help more women join, stay, succeed, and lead in the work place. Hosted by: Laura Zarrow Live Thursdays 9-10 AM EST on SiriusXM 132 View Show Page Launch Pad Ins and outs of planning a new business, raising the money you need, and making the connections that count. Hosted by Karl Ulrich and Rob Coneybeer Live Mondays 5-6 PM EST on SiriusXM 132 View Show Page Also Featured on Business Radio 132 Leadership in Action - Live Fridays 9-10 AM EST What it takes to influence others and achieve high results as an effective leader. Whether you are running a small family business or a large public company, being in charge has its own set of challenges. Each week, hosts Professor Michael Useem, Jeffrey Klein, and Anne Greenhalgh invite business leaders from top organizations to reveal the steps to effective leadership. It’s more than just what you say and how you say it. Do you have what it takes to influence others and achieve high results? Leadership in Action airs Fridays from 9AM-10AM Eastern only on SiriusXM 132. We’d love to take your calls at 1-844-WHARTON (1-844-942-7866). Hosted by: Anne Greenhalgh Michael Useem Jeff Klein CMO Spotlight How CMOs are tackling today’s marketing challenges. Marketing Professionals are facing an ongoing explosion of technologies, intense competition for next-gen talent, and figuring out the mutual value of how current and potential customers learn about and engage with all touchpoints of the brand. Join Catharine Hays, co-author of Beyond Advertising and Jenny Rooney, Editor of the Forbes CMO Network each month, as they chat with top CMOs in the industry to give you exclusive access into what’s on the mind of the world’s most innovative marketers today and offer practical tips for your own marketing initiatives. What does the future hold for the ever-evolving role of the CMO? How are executives addressing the key challenges facing the industry? Where do they see the greatest opportunities? This and more on The CMO Spotlight on SiriusXM 132. Hosted by: Jenny Rooney Catharine Hays Randi Zuckerberg Means Business - Live Wednesdays 12-1 PM EST Trending topics in technology and our lives “Randi Zuckerberg Means Business” is a fun, entertaining, educational, and approachable way to discuss all of the latest trends and topics in technology, and how they’re affecting our modern lives. Drawing on years of experience in the tech sector as an entrepreneur and mother, Randi Zuckerberg will provide a forum for discussion and delve into the latest high tech innovations for kids, parents and even pets, examining what is new in technology that can be incorporated into our daily lives. Live every Wednesday at Noon Eastern (9AM Pacific) only on SiriusXM 132. Hosted by: Randi Zuckerberg Purpose Built - Live Tuesdays 12-1 PM EST (monthly) Allbirds Co-Founder and Co-CEO and Wharton alumnus Joey Zwillinger talks with a high-profile, socially-conscious entrepreneur in this special series. Purpose Built is a special series hosted by Wharton alumnus and Allbirds Co-Founder and Co-CEO Joey Zwillinger. In each one-hour episode, Zwillinger talks with a high-profile entrepreneur, exploring the story behind his/her journey from startup to success, showing how a socially conscious approach benefited their bottom line. Purpose Built airs monthly on Business Radio SiriusXM channel 132 on Tuesday at noon ET and on Insight SiriusXM channel 121 on Wednesday at 6 pm ET. Hosted by: Joey Zwillinger Your Money - Live Tuesdays 5-6 PM EST Practical advice on your personal finances and find out how financial news affects you. Saving for college tuition, planning for retirement or doing your taxes? Should you look into an IRA? Get practical advice on your personal finances from Professor Kent Smetters. Find out what today’s headlines mean for your pocket. Your Money airs Tuesdays from 5-6PM Eastern only on SiriusXM 132. We’d love to take your calls at 1-844-WHARTON (1-844-942-7866). Hosted by: Kent Smetters Wharton Business Daily - Live Weekdays 10 AM - 12 PM EST Innovators and business leaders take on latest news, trends, and issues. Wharton Business Daily is a dynamic new morning show airing live from the Wharton School on SiriusXM Channel 132. The show offers listeners the latest news and the most fascinating breaking trends with an emphasis on issues impacting both consumers and the business world. Each day Wharton Business Daily will air segments featuring top business leaders, innovators and renowned Wharton faculty discussing topics that really matter and that draw from the School’s unique and deep expertise across its ten academic areas. Wharton Business Daily airs live from 10 a.m. to 12 noon ET from the Wharton School’s Philadelphia campus on SiriusXM Channel 132. More » Hosted by: Dan Loney Wharton Stories “I’m most interested in the rebels always having a fighting chance, not just because it’s my business and my livelihood, but also because I think it’s better for innovation.” Alexis Ohanian: Supporting Business Rebels Through Venture Capital “If she’s going to be on Zoom every day, she needs lots of outfits and she needs lots of jewelry that’s affordable. So we’ve seen that product shift.” Rebecca Minkoff: Tailoring to Customers During a Pandemic “It’s not a short-term thing. This ripple effect of the economic and health crisis that we’re in right now will last for some time.” Former Philadelphia Mayor Nutter Reflects on the ‘Ripple Effects’ of COVID-19 “We are living in an era in which corporations are sometimes more powerful than the politicians that we elect. What we’re trying to say to folks now is, ‘Flex that power in the interest of your Black employees.’” How Corporations and Local Government Can Join the Fight Against Racial Injustice Load More Stories Additional Links Wharton on Business Radio 132 Home Listen to the Wharton Business Daily Podcast Business Radio Stories Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff Support Wharton©2022 The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Wharton on Business Radio 132 | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help