Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact Break new ground Opportunities are built, not found. We shape leaders. Doers. Creators. Invest in the impactful. In this Section Graduate Staff Directory Apply – Graduate Programs Dual MBA PhD in Entrepreneurship Full-Time MBA Protected: Global MBA Online Programs Office Graduate Certificates Innovation MBA Master of Accountancy Plus Analytics (MAC+) Master of Science in Business Analytics Online MBA Professional MBA The College of Business Graduate Programs Advance your job prospects with a graduate degree or certification driven by research and faculty with real-world credentials. Connect with industry leaders, expand your professional network, and hone skills for a fluid, fast-paced business world. Continue your career construction here. Apply Today Learn More Our Impact 90% Employed within three months of graduation #26 Online MBA (U.S. News & World Report) #31 Full-time MBA in the world (Best Masters) #33 Entrepreneurship Program (The Princeton Review) 96.2% Graduation Rate $75,680 Average starting salary (MBA) View More Graduate Programs GMAT Waiver Request Request a GMAT waiver for the Professional MBA, Entrepreneurship MBA, Online MBA, and MSBA programs. Learn More Graduate Programs Events From open houses to workshops, review our grad program schedule here. Learn More Graduate Internships Competitive paid internship opportunities are a cornerstone of the MBA/MSBA/MAC+ experience. Learn More Graduate Student Organizations Build your network. Expand your professional connections. Learn More Full-Time MBA 13 months. That’s all it takes to complete our innovative, accelerated masters of business administration program. Explore our proven curriculum and significant paid internship opportunities. Get Started Get Started Professional MBA You don’t have to stop your career to advance it. Explore our 20-month top rated program with a convenient evening schedule. Get Started Get Started Online MBA 100% online. Balance life and career with an MBA and certificate programs that work at the speed of life. Get Started Get Started Protected: Global MBA There is no excerpt because this is a protected post. Get Started Get Started Dual MBA Interested in medicine, dentistry, law, engineering or humanities? Learn more about the business side of each industry and pair your studies in our dual degree program. Get Started Get Started Master of Science in Business Analytics There’s a rapidly growing need for analytics experts. Gain high-level expertise to enhance any business in just 13 months with our Master of Science in Business Analytics. Get Started Get Started Master of Accountancy Plus Analytics (MAC+) The UofL College of Business’s MAC+ is a 34-credit hour Master of Accountancy program aimed at individuals planning to begin their careers in public accounting or other accounting roles in business and industry. Get Started Get Started Innovation MBA Our acclaimed Innovation MBA gives you the skills, confidence, and connections needed to launch a new business or provide innovative leadership at your current organization. Get Started Get Started PhD in Entrepreneurship A unique doctoral program, structured to provide a multidisciplinary understanding of entrepreneurship in society. Explore launching your academic career. Get Started Get Started Apply now Submit your application for review. Apply Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish