Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact In this Section About Community Involvement Office of Thought Leadership and Civic Engagement (OTLCE) Family Business Center FBC Membership FBC Education FBC News & Research Family Business Center Team Contact FBC Excellence Awards The Family Business Center Since 1993, the Family Business Center (FBC) at the University of Louisville has proudly served family-owned businesses in the Kentuckiana region. Our members receive the collective insights of established family-owned businesses, respected advisors, and scholars from the UofL College of Business. We work to create a learning community in which families and their businesses gain the knowledge and connections they need to grow, succeed, and thrive from generation to generation. Our mission As an integral part of the College of Business, the mission of the UofL Family Business Center is here to help business enterprises and their families succeed and thrive. We do this by: Creating a community of business owners and their advisors that helps strengthen the family and the business Providing educational resources to business-owning families, family enterprises, and family business partners to achieve multigenerational success Generating, translating, and disseminating research about business-owning families and family enterprises Advocating for the entrepreneurial and economic role of business-owning families and family enterprises in our region FBC Membership Learn More FBC Education Learn More What we do We provide high-quality, interactive educational forums that help our members learn from one another. We facilitate peer to peer learning through roundtable offerings. We develop, translate, and disseminate research about business-owning families and their enterprises. We provide individualized assessments for the family and the business to identify areas of improvement and create a plan that can meet their particular needs. We help develop a strong social network for our members to share knowledge and best practices. Family Business Center College of Business University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 (502) 852-7815 fbc@louisville.edu Member Login Donate to FBC Not a member? Join today. Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish