Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact In this Section Academics & Programs Apply Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Executive Education Equine Industry Program Global Study Graduate Programs Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Personalized MBA Career Outcomes APPLY Business Certificates Undergraduate Certificate Programs Certificate in Accounting Offered both on-campus and online, the Certificate in Accounting consists of nine core accounting courses, covering key areas including financial accounting, managerial accounting, taxation, information systems, and auditing. Gain the skills and expertise to start or grow a career in the field. Graduates will have the 27 hours of college-level accounting coursework required to sit for the CPA exam in Kentucky. Kentucky requires a bachelor’s degree and an additional 12 credit hours of college credit courses in business. Other states have different requirements. Information about those requirements can be obtained from the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy. More information: Certificate in Accounting Online Certificate in Accounting Certificate in Equine Business A one-year Certificate in Equine Business is an undergraduate certificate available to persons who have earned a four-year degree and are seeking specialized training in Equine Business. The Certificate program is an undergraduate course of specially tailored equine courses. The Equine Business certificate is the only program of its kind. The program enhances the understanding of the horse business and prepares the student for a position in the equine industry. Students benefit from the small class size and faculty experienced in the area of equine business. More information: Equine Business Certificate Graduate Certificate Programs Online Certificate in Distilled Spirits The online UofL Distilled Spirits Business Certificate* blends an industry born of tradition with a university that fosters innovation. Louisville and the surrounding region are home to many of the most storied companies and most innovative start-ups in the U.S. distilled spirits industry. There is no better place to learn the business of the distilled spirits industry than from a university located in its epicenter. Developed in partnership with industry experts, we offer a one-of-a-kind curriculum that features the most relevant knowledge, skills, and awareness for accelerating your success in the booming distilled spirits industry. Courses are offered 100% online. No matter where you are in the world, learn from the masters of the U.S. distilled spirits industry. More information: Online Distilled Spirits Business Certificate Online Horse Racing Industry Business Certificate Gain functional knowledge of horse racing operations, marketing, law, communications and analytics, and leadership. A bachelor’s degree is required. Taught by horse racing leaders and experts, this program delivers in-depth knowledge of the issues that challenge the industry today and insight into overcoming those issues through earned expertise and innovative business approaches. More information: Online Horse Racing Industry Business Certificate Online Certificate in Family Business Management and Advising Taught by College of Business faculty and industry experts, UofL’s Family Business Management & Advising online certificate has been purposefully designed to align with the needs of family businesses, their current and future leaders (both family and non-family), and the professional advisors who serve them. This certificate provides essential business education to strengthen the family business community by focusing on expertise and strategies that help graduates successfully navigate the nuances, opportunities, and challenges specific to family ownership. More information: Online Family Business Management & Advising Certificate Online Certificate in Franchise Management The Certificate in Franchise Management is a 9-credit hour certificate that focuses on the unique skills and knowledge necessary to succeed as a franchisee—including acquiring, running, and growing franchise operations. The curriculum was designed in close partnership with industry experts. The six accelerated, highly focused, 1.5-credit hour courses are designed for individuals who plan to become franchisees, as well as existing single-site franchisees who want to gain the skills and knowledge necessary to grow their franchise business. The program is offered 100% online. More information: Online Franchise Management Certificate Online Certificate in Managerial Analytics The online Managerial Analytics Graduate Certificate delivers the critical data management and data science expertise needed to make strategic business decisions in a fast-changing marketplace. You will gain knowledge and skills in rapidly developing and in-demand areas including business analytics, artificial intelligence, blockchain, spreadsheet modeling, storytelling through data, and more—all with a business management focus. This unique certificate prepares you to effectively interpret business data and results, determine actionable insights, present next steps with confidence, and manage the future of business. More information: Online Managerial Analytics Certificate Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish