Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Get Involved Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Student Initiatives More Columbia Career Network Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Alumni Benefits Career Management Support the School Events News Columbia Career Network The Columbia Career Network is an initiative to strengthen and build upon the School’s extensive global community by connecting our alumni network with current students. The Columbia Career Network (CCN) serves as the umbrella identifier for every instance where students will have the opportunity to engage and leverage the Columbia Business School network — including alumni, faculty members, staff, Executives in Residence, and others who are dedicated to the industry and career education of our students. Alumni play an essential role in helping to shape the experience of current Columbia Business School students and the CCN provides alumni with an opportunity to connect with current students and provide industry-based guidance. All alumni are considered members of the Columbia Career Network and are strongly encouraged to respond to all calls and e-mails from inquiring students. Columbia Career Network Mentor While all alumni are considered members of the Columbia Career Network, you have the opportunity to sign up as a Columbia Career Network mentor. As a CCN mentor, you will be highlighted as an alumnus who particularly welcomes current students contacting you with questions about the industry you work in, your career path, and your perspective on how to make the most of their time at Columbia Business School. Your name will be featured with the “CCN mentor” designation in the student-view of the alumni directory, which tells students that you welcome their questions. Your responsibility as a CCN mentor will be to reply back to student inquiries in a timely manner and help them make the most of the Columbia Career Network. If you would like to become a CCN mentor to current students, please log in to the Network section of the website, select "Edit My Profile" from the left hand-side menu, and click Volunteer Sign-up under “Edit My Interests.” Additionally, we encourage you to take a moment to also edit your alumni profile search settings so that students are able to connect with you via social networking. You can do this by adjusting your account settings within the Network. If you have any additional questions or comments, please contact Alumni Relations at [email protected]. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions