Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected MyCBS Class Notes In Memoriam Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Domestic Clubs International Clubs Affinity Clubs Club Leader Resources Events and Speakers Marketing Geographic Profiles Additional Club Leader Resources Young Alumni Board 2020-2021 Young Alumni Board Young Alumni Resources Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources Self-Assessment Research Professional Branding Networking Interviewing & Managing Offers Professional Development Media Library Job Opportunities CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving 1916 Society Centennial Partners Student Relief Fund Hermes Society Recurring Gifts Second Century Circle Student Philanthropy Major Giving Student Financial Aid Manhattanville Campus Faculty and Research Support Founders' Pledge Program Support Planned Giving Invest in Your Future International Giving Events Events Calendar Recognition Reception Photos Reunion News More Women's Circle Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Alumni Clubs Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Career Management Support the School Events News Welcome to Columbia Business School’s Women’s Circle. As an expansive women’s leadership initiative, this new era of the Women’s Circle includes all alumnae of Columbia Business School, regardless of giving status or graduation year. The Women’s Circle promotes and inspires women in business by cultivating an engaged and supportive community across the School. We are dedicated to supporting CBS students and alumnae throughout the many phases of their personal and professional lives and advocating for equity in business leadership. We celebrate the leadership and collective impact of alumnae, and strive to strengthen partnerships between women business leaders and Columbia Business School. Join us on MyCBS Join us on LinkedIn Opportunities The Women’s Circle seeks to increase visibility around current engagement opportunities for alumnae at the School, as well as augment these initiatives with exclusive programming and networking events. Engagement opportunities for members include but are not limited to: Member networking receptions hosted by Women’s Circle members during the year. Invitation-only gatherings with faculty and thought leadership, with an opportunity to engage in discussions on current initiatives and research at the School. Special access to Columbia Business School industry conferences and pre- and post- conference receptions throughout the year. Programming in partnership with Columbia Business School’s Career Management Center and Executive Education. An opportunity to serve as a Women’s Circle Admissions Advocate and assist with female MBA recruitment. Make an Impact Support the Women's Circle with an annual fund gift. Gifts to the Columbia Business School Annual Fund provide critical seed funding for women students, alumnae engagement, faculty scholarship on women and diversity, and other Women's Circle programming. Women’s Circle donors are recognized in the annual Report to Investors as well as throughout the year. Give Now Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions