Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1637006225932 Executive Council 35/Thirty-Five Membership Mentoring Who We Are Contact Information Trish Reed trishreed@fullerton.edu 657-278-7918 Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1637006226951 Executive Council Our Mission: The Executive Council provides funding and industry-focused expertise in support of academic excellence, business community engagement and educational programs at Cal State Fullerton’s College of Business and Economics. About the Executive Council: The Executive Council actively seeks the expertise and support of Southern California business professionals across all industries. As an advisory group comprised of business executives from Southern California firms, the council works with the leadership of the College to increase the college’s visibility in the professional world. Its members are committed to enhancing the education of the next generation of leaders, including providing individualized mentoring and support for the college’s diverse student body. Each year, the council sponsors the Business Honors Program, provides scholarships to high-achieving business students, bestows awards such as the annual Outstanding Student and Outstanding Faculty member recognitions, and supports the College's Tutoring Center. Please visit the Become a Member page for information on the various sponsorship levels and related benefits, as well as to complete your application. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported