Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639693530359 Undergraduate Programs Admissions Business Advising Center Career Services Business Honors Program Study Abroad Contact Information Business Advising Center businessadvising@fullerton.edu (657) 278-2211 SGMH 1201 Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639693533535 BA International Business All industries in today’s economy have been transformed by globalization. With one of the most diverse populations in the world and located at the gateway to the Pacific Rim and Latin America, California, the world’s fifth-largest economy, is particularly well-positioned for career opportunities in international trade and global business. Global business competency and acumen is vital for today’s business leaders, whether they pursue careers in global companies or small local enterprises that form the backbone of the logistics and infrastructure undergirding world trade. The college’s B.A. in international business provides a versatile and interdisciplinary foundation for careers and opportunities in global business, including coursework in business communication, international economics, international finance, international law, global marketing, international management and information systems, as well as an overview of the essentials of accounting and economics. The B.A. in international business offers two concentrations. A concentration in global trade includes coursework in economic development analysis and case studies, global finance, risk management, operations management, export/import marketing strategies, and the supply chain. New for fall 2018, the intercultural management concentration is a highly interdisciplinary program enabling students to complete related coursework through the College of Communications and foreign language studies through the College of Humanities and Social Sciences. Regional or functional elective coursework at the upper-division level enables customization, providing the opportunity for students to specialize in a single area of interest (such as marketing); develop a greater understanding of business practices in global regional or cross-regional contexts; or focus on areas of interest, such as economic development. Applied implementation of global business strategies is central to the international business program. One such example is a capstone course that may encompass the unique cultural differences in Europe and the Pacific Rim, two of the leading economic powerhouses in the contemporary world. To learn more about the B.A. in international business, including specific academic requirements, visit the International Business, B.A., page in the current CSUF Catalog. For further details on the concentration in global trade, visit the International Business, Concentration in Global Trade, B.A., page in the current CSUF Catalog. Additional information on the concentration in intercultural management may be accessed on the International Business, Concentration in Intercultural Management, B.A., page in the current CSUF catalog. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported