Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > Academics > Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Business Analytics ACADEMICS Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses The Collins College of Business Master of Science in Business Analytics targets the education of students in the analysis, interpretation, and prediction capabilities of large sets of data. This program will help students master the technical tools necessary to perform analysis of a variety of data but will also allow them to specialize in a discipline-specific area. Furthermore, coursework will develop the communication skills of students, a key component to employment and success in the field. 〉Program requirements in the Course Bulletin Program Highlights and Requirements Evening based program to accommodate working professionals New cohorts form each fall semester for this 30 hour degree program Full time students can complete the program in as few as 16 months Program includes three weekend workshops to fulfill computational foundations focused on a variety of data analytics and statistical software Incoming students are required to have earned a four year degree in business, engineering, or science from a regionally-accredited university or have a Bachelor’s degree in another field in addition to five years of experience in a technical discipline STEM-certified program (STEM CIP Code – 52.1301) The Center for Career Development and Professional Engagement is available to assist with career placement Students opportunities include participation in the Collins College of Business Mentorship Program, resume reviews, mock interviews, and a variety of student organizations focused on advancing each student’s professional opportunities Foundation Courses Applicants to the MS in Business Analytics program are required to have earned a four year degree in business, engineering, or science from a regionally-accredited university or have five or more years of experience in a technical discipline. Students in need of foundation coursework may enroll in the following online Ivy courses provided by The University of Tulsa at a discounted rate prior to beginning the core curriculum. Alternatively, students may choose to participate in traditional classroom based courses, as approved by the Director of Graduate Admissions and Enrollment. QM 2013 Statistical Analysis Curriculum (27 Hours) Students complete all courses QM 7023 Statistics and Data Visualization QM 7073 Foundations of Analytics QM 7503 Regression and Statistical Learning QM 7063 Data Mining & Predictive Analytics QM 7083 Business Analytics Practicum QM 7111 Managing Data Analytics Projects QM 7003 Business Decision Models QM 7093 Enterprise Data Systems QM 7402 Leading & Managing Analytics Organizations QM 7103 Analytics Programming Elective Courses (3 Hours) Marketing & Consumer Behavior MBA 7153 Consumer Behavior MKTG 7023 Marketing Research MBA 7133 Innovation & Product Development MKTG 7013 Problems in Consumer Behavior Operations Management MBA 7163 Supply Chain Management MBA 7033 Operations Management QM 7053 Simulation & Risk Analysis Finance FIN 7073 Empirical Methods in Finance FIN 7213 Research Tools in Finance FIN 7023 Investment Analysis & Management Accounting Forensics ACCT 6243 Auditing Assurance for Accounting Systems ACCT 7043 Fraud Detection & Prevention ACCT 7283 Forensic Accounting & Litigation ACCT 7113 Information Security: Auditing & Assurance Services Healthcare CS 6643 Bioinformatics CS 6653 Medical Informatics PSY 7053 Psychometrics PSY 7343 Research Methods in Psychology DNP 8053 Biostatistics DNP 9023 Healthcare Informatics DNP 9063 Epidemiology BIOL 6333 Experimental Design Information Systems CIS 6073 Information Security CIS 6043 Database Design & Applications ACCT 6143 Accounting Information Systems Energy MEB 7033 Analytical Tools for Energy Business Management MEB 7193 Energy Analytics & the Digital Energy Enterprise GEOL 6083 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems EMGT 6013 Fundamentals of Energy Markets & Commodities Trading Request Information Request Information Name* First Last Email* Phone Start Date Fall 2021Fall 2022Fall 2023 CAPTCHA Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Admission Requirements Professional resume Transcripts from all colleges and universities previously attended Two professional letters of recommendation Essay presenting the applicant’s career objectives and reasons for pursuing the degree (submitted as part of the online Graduate School application) Acceptable TOEFL score for international students Additional application information may be found here. For more information email grad@utulsa.edu or call 918-631-2336. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT