Home Home From the Dean As the Class of ’22 prepares to walk across the stage, it is timely to reflect on and celebrate these students and their wonderful accomplishments. IMPACT STUDENTS' LIVES TODAY Read Dean Mooradian's full message Spring 2022 Headlines Promising Research Sadek Showkat understands risk/reward and betting on himself. Q&A with The Whitakers Robert and Odile Whitaker are the founders of the Whitaker Endowed Scholarship Fund... Embrace Second Chances Terrell Williams understands the importance of a second chance. The UofL senior accountancy major is ready to embrace change at NC State. Empower Identity College of Business alum Brevin Woodford returned to campus in early 2021 as an employee for his alma mater. Uncoding Tomorrow "You never know how your experiences will help another student succeed.” FBC Member Spotlight: Patrick Murphy Patrick D. Murphy discusses why he is a member of the FBC. First Comes Love. Then Comes Charcuterie. "That was when I realized it could be an actual business." Pathways to Potential Entrepreneur T.K. Coleman visited UofL in February as a guest speaker in the Center for Free Enterprise Menard Family Lecture Series. 2022 Rechter Fellows Announced Since 2020, Rechter Fellows have developed tools and conducted research that supports the advancement of virtue and excellence in leadership. GBAC Networking “We have an awesome opportunity to help take the Graduate Business Programs to the next level by having a high-quality group of active alumni.” Spirit of Hospitality While she may prefer to stay behind the scenes, Kelly Watson appreciates being recognized by her peers with the Cardinal Spirit Award. Government Policies Effect on Health Outcomes Recently, Jose Fernandez, PhD, has studied the effect of medical marijuana policies on opioid-related hospital admissions. Spirit of Sharing Online MBA student support coordinator Erica Hulse's passion for student success has helped earn her a Cardinal Spirit Award. Give From annual support to legacy gifts, building for tomorrow starts with your investment today. Learn More Research & Publications UofL College of Business faculty value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Learn More Department Notes: Spring 2022 A recap of department highlights. Learn More Class Notes: Spring 2022 From wedding and birth announcements to job promotions and career changes, news from our alumni. Learn More In Memoriam: Spring 2022 Remembering those have passed from our Cardinal Community. Learn More ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish