Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > Academics > Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Majors ACADEMICS Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses The Collins College of Business offers a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA) degree that provides a basic understanding of issues in organizational behavior, negotiation, and managerial functions. Students can choose to major in accounting, computer information systems, economics, energy management, finance, international business, management or marketing. Students are encouraged to participate in study abroad programs and have priority for TU-approved international business internships hosted by companies abroad. Accounting Accountants are the investigators of the business world, hunting for answers to important questions and helping decision makers determine the right course of action. They’re also as good with people as they are with numbers. Jobs in accounting are plentiful and diverse. Accountants fight white-collar crime, steer businesses toward financial success and help individuals make smart decisions with their money. Students who study accounting step into one of the most critical business functions. TU’s accounting curriculum keeps pace with changes in the industry, preparing students to excel in accounting roles starting on day one. Computer Information Systems If you’re a tech-savvy problem solver, then the computer information systems (CIS) field is for you. A career in CIS is quickly becoming one of the most alluring in the business world. In the age of digital information and communications, employers demand business professionals who can analyze the information needs of decision makers, design and specify systems to meet those needs and manage the computer technology requirements crucial to an organization’s competitiveness. CIS experts design and build systems to help gather the information necessary to run a business and help managers make critical decisions. CIS offers opportunities to work closely with professionals in accounting, finance, management and operations. New applications of technology in the workplace will continue to drive demand for CIS professionals. Economics Do you ever wonder what motivates people to buy what they buy when they buy it? Economics deconstructs consumer behavior, explaining why your favorite brand of shoes costs so much and how the principle of supply and demand affects prices. Economists study how society distributes resources, such as land, labor, raw materials and machinery, to produce goods and services. They may conduct research, collect and analyze data, monitor economic trends or develop forecasts. Economists research a wide variety of issues including energy costs, inflation, interest rates, exchange rates, business cycles, taxes and employment levels, among others. Majoring in economics hones students’ technical competence and analytical abilities. Typically, economics majors pursue MBA degrees, landing jobs as business consultants in the nonprofit, private or public sectors or becoming college professors or government economists. The Economics Department of the College of Arts and Sciences offers a B.S.B.A. with a major in economics within the Collins College of Business. Energy Management TU’s interdisciplinary energy management major gives students a foundation in accounting, business law, finance, environmental economics, geology, petroleum engineering and energy commodities trading. Energy management graduates can land lucrative jobs upstream in exploration and production, midstream in energy commodities trading or downstream in processing and manufacturing. The job outlook for the energy management field is optimistic. An aging workforce that will soon retire means younger professionals have the opportunity to advance quickly in this career. Finance The number of career paths and options in finance is extensive, including corporate finance, banking and investment planning. Finance majors help track daily operations within an organization, analyze the current financial position and plan for future corporate expenditures and acquisitions. TU students can gain hands-on experience by managing the Student Investment Fund, a $5 million portfolio of real money. In our Risk Management Center, a lifelike financial laboratory complete with stock ticker boards, extensive financial databases, Bloomberg terminals and computers, students can apply concepts learned in the classroom. International Business and Language TU’s international business and language major prepares students for success in the global marketplace. IBL combines foreign language competency and course work in international business with a business degree. IBL students participate in study abroad and often find international business internships hosted by foreign companies. A comprehensive business foundation combined with an understanding of cultural nuances position graduates to compete successfully in an international arena. Management Management majors can specialize in innovation and entrepreneurship, business law, sport management or human resources management. They formulate the policies and direct the operations of corporations, nonprofit organizations and government agencies, or chart their own path by pursuing new ventures as entrepreneurs. Students have numerous opportunities for practical, hands-on learning. At TU, management majors develop communication, critical thinking and problem-solving skills while learning management concepts. Marketing Marketing professionals solve a fundamental problem — how to connect a product or service to its customers. TU marketing majors develop communication, problem-solving and critical thinking skills in the classroom. After learning the theory of marketing, students are given opportunities for practical, hands-on experience with real-world clients. Studio Blue, TU’s creative greenhouse, encourages innovation and problem solving in a free-flowing environment equipped with mobile furniture, magnetic and dry-erase walls, a viewing room for focus groups and other brainstorming tools. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT