Skip Navigation Test This is a test California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close View novel coronavirus (COVID-19) resources and updates › College of Business and Economics COVID-19 Update Our college has gone virtual, but we are still here to support you during these challenging times. The support you need is available online through our virtual support centers. Business Advising Center: Schedule a virtual appointment, email an advisor or submit forms to get in touch with an advisor. Career Services: Schedule a virtual appointment, register for a virtual workshop or reach a career advisor. Tutoring Center: Schedule a virtual tutoring session. Graduate Programs: Graduate students can schedule virtual appointments, email an advisor about their master's program or submit graduate forms. College Departments: Obtain permits or connect with faculty members through the college's six departments: accounting, economics, finance, ISDS, management and marketing. College of Business and Economics Make All the Right Connections You will establish a strong professional network with more than 9,000 business students, more than 60,000 alumni worldwide and considerable interaction with area business leaders through internships, workshops and mentorships. An Immersive Experience Your involvement in clubs, student leadership, volunteer work, international study trips and dozens of other opportunities provide a well-rounded, rich college experience and résumé-building skills. Fertile Ground for Jobs Southern California is the right place to grow your career with the region’s strong and diverse business economy providing exceptional professional opportunities. A Degree and Timeframe that Works for You By taking advantage of our extensive support programs, you will receive the assistance you need to graduate on time with the experience and knowledge to launch your career. College of Business and Economics Instagram Students from 45 countries $25,000 donated from the student managed investment fund 32 business leaders turned professors for a day College of Business and Economics Blog This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience.