Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact In this Section Alumni & Friends Get Involved Scholarships and Funds About Us Our Impact Connect Give Dean's Circle Annual Fund Endowment Funds & Scholarships Make your gift today Bob Myers Honorary Scholarship Fund Student Success Fund College of Business Scholarship Fund Career Support CURRENCY Magazine Excellence Awards Give Today’s Students: Tomorrow’s Business Leaders From Endowed Chairs to one-time donations, building for tomorrow starts with your investment today. As an alum or a friend of the College of Business, we are grateful for your contribution to the greatest resource we have, our students. Giving to one of these funds will make a big difference in a student’s life and open opportunities for connection and mentorship. Bob Myers Honorary Scholarship Fund Your gift will support our all students to have the opportunity to develop their intellectual and cultural horizons. Learn More Student Success Fund This fund aid students to be successful and offset special circumstances that impact their ability to attend or excel. Learn More College of Business Scholarship Fund Your gift scholarships for all levels of College of Business Students. It will empower them to reach their full potential. Learn More Endowment Funds & Scholarships Donate today to sustain a legacy of support and assistance at the College of Business. Learn More Dean’s Circle Bring our students’ futures into the light with your generous support. Learn More Student Emergency Scholarship Fund Emergency Scholarship Fund was established to support students that encounter unexpected financial emergencies that might prevent them from persisting to graduation. The goal of the fund is to help students during a time of need, stay in school and make progress towards their degree. Learn More Make your gift today Help tomorrow’s business leaders emerge better. Learn More Annual Fund Help us continue to build towards a sustainable educational future for our best and brightest. Learn More Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish