Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1643753850634 Center for Economic Education Contact Us Workforce Development Program Teacher Training IDA Financial Fitness Camp IDA Research Financial Literacy Lab Online Resources Olympiad Upcoming Event Contact Information Radha Bhattacharya rbhattachary@fullerton.edu (657) 278-3652 Social Media CEE News Loading Blog Feed Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1643753730207 The Center for Economic Education The Center for Economic Education The major objective of the Center is to promote economic and financial literacy in schools (K-12), institutions of higher learning, and in the larger community. The Center seeks to achieve this objective through curriculum development and consultation, workshops and courses, materials dissemination, and education research. Lack of economic literacy among American families was a significant factor causing the 2007 recession. The increasing complexity of economic issues and problems requires that students develop an early understanding of the economic system within which they must operate as consumers, producers, and citizens. The Center for Economic Education at the College of Business and Economics (CBE) provides a comprehensive program to California classrooms with support from the California Council on Economic Education (CCEE) and the Council on Economic Education (CEE). Serving as the program arm of the CEE and CCEE, the Center provides important services to meet the economic education objectives of the CEE and its affiliated institutions. These services include: regular offering of on- and off-campus workshops and instructional programs in economics; providing consultation for schools, colleges, and community organizations; developing and/or distributing economic education materials; and conducting research in economic education. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported