Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact Forge Ahead Build your career at your pace. Own your potential and your time. In this Section Online Master of Business Administration (MBA) Online Distilled Spirits Certificate Online Horse Racing Industry Business Certificate Online Managerial Analytics Certificate Online Franchise Certificate Online Accounting Certificate Online Family Business Management & Advising Certificate The College of Business Online Programs UofL online degree and certificate programs combine essential business expertise and rigor from the nationally ranked College of Business with the convenience of accessing coursework from anywhere in the world through 100% online classes. Apply Today Learn More Online Master of Business Administration (MBA) Experience the same high-quality MBA provided on campus, except delivered online to fit your busy schedule. Get Started Get Started Online Accounting Certificate Gain the essential and practical accounting expertise needed to start or grow a career in the field. No bachelor’s required. Get Started Get Started Online Distilled Spirits Certificate The Online UofL Distilled Spirits Business Certificate blends an industry born of tradition with a university that fosters innovation. Get Started Get Started Online Family Business Management & Advising Certificate UofL’s Online Family Business Management & Advising Certificate is designed to prepare family business owners, leaders, supervisors, and consultants to help support the success and continuity of family businesses. Get Started Get Started Online Franchise Certificate The online Franchise Management Certificate is designed to help current or future franchisees embrace their full potential and succeed as a business owner. Get Started Get Started Online Horse Racing Industry Business Certificate The Online UofL Distilled Spirits Business Certificate blends an industry born of tradition with a university that fosters innovation. Get Started Get Started Online Managerial Analytics Certificate Gain the critical data management and data science expertise needed to make strategic business decisions. Get Started Get Started Our Impact # 1 Best Online Colleges in Kentucky (The Best Schools.org) # 80 Best Online Bachelor's Programs (US News & World Report) # 49 Best Online Programs for Veterans (US News & World Report) 16:1 Student to Faculty Ratio View More Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish