Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1640044651502 About the College of Business and Economics Staff Directory Mihaylo Hall Accreditation Schools and Centers Departments Student Programs Business Events Business Stories Loading Blog Feed Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639518797853 Schools and Centers The centers and schools within the College of Business and Economics at Cal State Fullerton are supported by private donation. These centers address a variety of needs and issues in the community, provide an array of services to local business and government sectors, and provide academic and practical learning environments for our students. School of Risk Management and Insurance Within the fabric of insurance studies, this school creates a broad based educational environment blending technology, communications, interpersonal skills and sound business practices. Contact: Weili Lu, Ph.D. Center for Corporate Reporting and Governance The purpose of the center is to study accounting, regulatory, and corporate governance issues, and promote investor awareness and disseminate information about financial reporting issues impacting U.S. and international markets. Contact: Vivek Mande, Ph.D. April Morris '75 Center for Economic Education The goal of this center is to promote economic understanding, working on a practical and applied level with the National Council for Economic Education statewide and nationally. Contact: Radha Bhattacharya, Ph.D. Center for Entertainment and Hospitality Management The Center for Entertainment and Hospitality Management links students to the entertainment media and hospitality industries. Center resources and events help prepare students in the college's entertainment and hospitality management academic program for career opportunities in both industries. Contact: Ellen Kim, Ph.D. ehm@fullerton.edu Center for Entrepreneurship This center supports entrepreneurial education and research by bringing together faculty, students, alumni entrepreneurs and friends of the university to build and advance an exciting, high-energy entrepreneurial culture. Contact: John B. Jackson '77 Center for Family Business The goal of the center is to assist family businesses in recognizing their common problems and in finding solutions to the unique issues that confront them. Contact: Chris Swarat, Ph.D. Center for Information Technology and Business Analytics The primary purpose of this center is to research security related technologies and map them to relevant business domains. Likewise, the center also provides a forum for the exchange of ideas related to the advancement of security systems and technologies. Contact: Rahul Bhaskar, Ph.D. Center for Leadership The Center for Leadership works to strengthen leadership capacities of CSUF students, its affiliates and members of the community. The center develops and drives leadership curriculum, sponsors and disseminates research, and provides unique training and consulting to individuals and companies. Contact:Jay Barbuto, Ph.D. leadership@fullerton.edu Center for Real Estate By providing a neutral forum to address key issues, the mission of this center is to promote and advance knowledge, objective research, and education in the area of real estate and land use economics in Orange County. Contact: Bob Osbrink Decision Research Center The Decision Research Center is dedicated to the scientific study of decision making: theories of how a rational person should choose, empirical studies of the choices people actually make, and explanations for why they make them. Contact: Daniel Cavagnaro, Ph.D. Gianneschi Center for Nonprofit Research The Gianneschi Center for Nonprofit Research exists to support and encourage the work of Orange County's many charitable organizations as the repository for data about the sector. Helping nonprofits and the entire community to better understand the work of this important sector is its primary mission. The Sales Leadership Center The Sales Leadership Center is dedicated to promoting leadership and professionalism as the sales training hub at Cal State Fullerton, offering world-class education inside a new state-of-the art facility. Contact: Brad Anderson Small Business Development Center This center assists developing small businesses in areas of growth and scalability. Contact: Michael Daniel '99 Small Business Institute Contact: John B. Jackson '77 Woods Center for Economic Analysis and Forecasting The James and Jeanette Woods Center for Economic Analysis and Forecasting issues economic forecasts, provides policy advice on economic and environmental issues, and conducts regional economic analysis. The center undertakes independent studies, and engages in sponsored research with private and public entities in the areas of its focus. It seeks funding for research and training; sponsors conferences and workshops; and presents studies and reports of interest to business, government, academic and general communities. Contact: Anil Puri, Ph.D. Mira Farka, Ph.D. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported