Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639693662983 School of Accountancy Programs Undergraduate Graduate Student Resources CPA Exam and Licensure ACCT 495 Internships Course Internship and Job Opportunities Scholarships Permit Request Faculty Information Faculty Office Hours Faculty Profiles Faculty Research CBA Appointment Notification Corporate Governance Center News and Events Advisory Board Contact Us Contact Information Vivek Mande, Director schoolofaccountancy@fullerton.edu (657) 278-2225 Accounting News Loading Blog Feed Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1651693891760 Welcome to the School of Accountancy! Our Mission Statement: We develop future business leaders through our dedication to teaching excellence and research. Together with the accounting and business community, we accomplish this using collaborative research and an innovative and a tech-forward curriculum in a culturally diverse environment. The School of Accountancy of the College of Business and Economics represents one of the largest undergraduate accounting programs in the nation, with more than 1,000 currently enrolled accounting majors. The size of our program enhances your flexibility in scheduling classes and allows more variety in accounting course offerings. Our undergraduate and graduate programs are built on three core principles: bringing real-world knowledge into the classroom, leveraging technology to deliver education, and integrating analytics throughout our curriculum. The learning experience is enhanced through paid internships, independent study and student group activities. Scholarships(pdf) and awards are made available each semester for deserving students. Student groups sponsor a variety of beneficial networking opportunities with professionals from the accounting community. Public accounting firms in the area also formally recruit on the campus. Our program is AACSB accredited, which alone sets us apart in Orange County. Top 10 distinctions of CSUF's accounting program (pdf) Upskilling the Accounting Workforce! Watch Professors Bogan and Morris’ present to CalCPA (mp4) about the skillsets that accountants will need to be successful in the rapidly changing business environment! The Analytic Accountant The School of Accountancy is pleased to share the 2021 edition of our annual report, Analytic Accountant(pdf). In this edition, we share exciting news including: - Our transformation from an Accounting Department to a School of Accountancy, - CPA Exam updates, -The new M.S. in Accounting and Finance (MSAF), - A new “Tech Talk” segment, - Spring 2020 Scholarship recipients, And many other news and events. We hope you enjoy the content and look forward to sharing the next edition! PROGRAM SPOTLIGHT - Spring 2022 Returning: CPA Exam Review Course! Powered by Becker CPA, this course will review the Financial Accounting and Reporting (FAR) section of the CPA exam. Please refer to CPA exam review course flyer (PDF) Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program (VITA) Volunteer Opportunity VITA is a great opportunity for sudents to build accounting and business knowledge as you help serve the community! You may learn more about VITA by viewing our informational video. To become a volunteer/member, please fill out the membership application. *You do not need previous experience to volunteer* For questions, please contact csufvitamembership@gmail.com, and connect with them on their Facebook Page. For tax preparation inquiries, please contact csufvitamembership@gmail.com prior to walking in. Listed below are the CSUF VITA Site Operation Hours: Room EC-08 (Education Building) Thursday @ 9:00 AM – 4:00 PM Friday @ 9:00 AM – 4:00 PM MSA/MST Information Session Attend an informational session to find out more about the CSUF Master of Science in Accountancy (MSA)/Master of Science in Taxation (MST) programs. Please refer to the information session flyer (PDF). Meeting Details: Friday, May 6th @ 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM Zoom Meeting ID: 869 0324 3461 FACULTY HIGHLIGHTS Meet Our New Professors! Dr. Arion Cheong Arion Cheong received his Ph.D. degree in accounting information systems from Rutgers University. He also earned his master’s in economics from the University of Texas at Austin and bachelor’s degree in international studies from Kyunghee University. Arion ’s research focuses on the application of data analytics in accounting and the managerial implication of information technology. He has advised numerous firms to adopt audit data analytics including the Brazilian Stock Exchange (B3) and AB InBev. Arion has taught a variety of classes including cybersecurity assurance, accounting information systems, and managerial accounting. Dr. Megan Grady Megan Grady received her doctorate in accounting from Texas A&M University. Prior to earning her doctorate from Texas A&M University, Megan worked as an auditor for several accounting firms including CBIZ MHM, PwC, and KPMG. She is a financial archival researcher. Her current research focuses on the impact of political connections and corruption on monitors, both internal and external, and the ultimate implications this has for financial reporting policies and practices. Dr. Zhejia Ling Zhejia Ling received her Ph.D. degree in accounting from the University of Iowa. She worked for public accounting firms and World Bank Group before and has served on the faculty of Iowa State University. Zhejia’s research focuses on corporate disclosure and its relation to capital markets. Questions about the Practicum Requirement? Have you been assigned a faculty mentor in the past or recently? The School of Accountancy facilitates an event called the Faculty Mentoring Program (FMP) every semester and this is one of the main aspects accounting faculty can help with! The program is held in October during the Fall and in March during the Spring. We would highly suggest reaching out to your faculty mentor for quesitons on completing your practicum requirement. If you are unable to reach them, please an email to schoolofaccountancy@fullerton.edu and we will be happy to connect you with a faculty member who can help. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported