Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639693530359 Undergraduate Programs Admissions Business Advising Center Career Services Business Honors Program Study Abroad Contact Information Business Advising Center businessadvising@fullerton.edu (657) 278-2211 SGMH 1201 Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639693532193 BA in Business Administration The Business Administration program offers a broad exposure to business administration and economics. Behavioral and quantitative sciences are studied in both theoretical and applied contexts. Mathematics is used as a key tool in the analysis of complex problems and in the interpretation of data. Emphasis is placed on effective oral and written communication. Students are made aware of the need for imaginative, innovative solutions to business problems that encompass human needs and ethical objectives. All students in the business administration major are required to complete common requirements in core courses, a capstone course, and Global Business course. In addition, students choose an area of specialization known as the concentration. Concentrations are offered in: Course Catalog Accounting Human Resources Management Business Analytics Information Systems Business Economics Legal Studies Management Decision Sciences Marketing Entertainment and Hospitality Management Operations & Supply Chain Management Entrepreneurship Risk Management and Insurance Finance Joint Emphasis in Accounting/Finance General Management Joint Emphasis in Accounting/Information Systems Joint Emphasis in Marketing/Information Systems Prerequisite Sheets 2016-2017 Accounting (PDF) Human Resources Management (PDF) Business Analytics (PDF) Information System (PDF) Business Economics (PDF) Legal Studies Management (PDF) Decision Sciences (PDF) Marketing (PDF) Entertainment and Tourism Management (PDF) Operations & Supply Chain Management (PDF) Entrepreneurship (PDF) Risk Management and Insurance (PDF) Finance (PDF) Accounting/Finance Emphasis (PDF) General Management (PDF) Accounting/Information System Emphasis (PDF) Marketing/Information System Emphasis (PDF) Four-Year Roadmaps 2016-2017 Accounting (PDF) Human Resources Management (PDF) Business Analytics (PDF) Information System (PDF) Business Economics (PDF) Legal Studies Management (PDF) Decision Sciences (PDF) Marketing (PDF) Entertainment and Tourism Management (PDF) Operations & Supply Chain Management (PDF) Entrepreneurship (PDF) Risk Management and Insurance (PDF) Finance (PDF) Accounting/Finance Emphasis (PDF) General Management (PDF) Accounting/Information System Emphasis (PDF) Marketing/Information System Emphasis (PDF) The Global Business course must be outside of your concentration area. For example if your concentration is finance, you may not take Finance 370 to meet the Global Business course requirement. Underlined courses in economics may fulfill general education requirements. Study Abroad programs may be used to meet the Global Business course requirement, provided the program involves at least three units of upper-division credit that is accepted by CSUF. The college's internship courses and independent studies that involve an international study may be used to meet this requirement, but require prior approval of the college's associate dean. REQUIREMENTS IN OTHER SUBJECTS, GRADES AND RESIDENCE General Education requirements: All students are required to complete a minimum of 51 semester units of general education courses selected in accordance with the pattern designated in the University catalog. General education courses must be selected from an approved list and taken for a letter grade. English proficiency requirement: Complete the designated upper division writing course (Buad 301) with grade of "C" (2.0) or better. Grades: Attain at least a 2.0 GPA (C average) in all university courses, in all courses in the major, and in the required concentration courses. In addition, you must earn at least a C (2.0) grade in each business administration core course and the concentration courses in accounting, management information systems and management science. A grade of "C-" (1.7) or lower is not a passing grade. Grade Option: Take all required core courses and all required concentration courses in the College of Business and Economics for a letter grade (A, B, C, D, F). The credit/no credit grading option may not be used for these courses, and a grade of CR (credit) will not satisfy the requirements of the degree. Exception: courses in calculus may be taken credit/no credit, however if it is also taken to meet general education requirements then it must be taken for a letter grade. Residence: A minimum of 30 units for the major must be in residence in the College of Business and Economics. In addition, at least one-half of the units in the concentration must be in residence. Students completing the accounting concentration must complete at least 15 units in residence. At least 15 of the last 24 units of courses must be taken in residence at the College of Business and Economics. Students also must fulfill university residence requirements. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported