Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Programs All Programs Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Alumni Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Home Programs Undergraduate Minors Food and Agricultural Business Food and Agricultural Business Are you interested in a career with a food or agricultural business? If so, the food and agricultural business minor is designed for you. This minor gives you the opportunity to select core business courses that are relevant to your personal and career interests, and take courses that specifically equip you to better understand the particular characteristics of food or agricultural sectors in the United States and abroad. Career opportunities exist in food processing, marketing and distribution, the production and marketing of agricultural products, and the businesses that support food and agricultural enterprises. Who’s eligible for the food and agricultural business minor? All Cornell undergraduates except students enrolled Dyson. How many credits are required? 15 core credits (all must be Johnson College of Business courses) on topics like the business and economics of food, agribusiness finance, accounting, management, and more. In addition, a 3 credit microeconomics course is required. I’m interested. What’s next? After reviewing the requirements below and our FAQ and policies page, you can begin the process using the Business Minors Dashboard. Current students: You can manage your minor and track your progress using the Business Minors Dashboard. Foundation Course This minor requires 3 credits in microeconomics. We recommend taking this course before taking the minor’s core requirements and require it to be completed by your sixth semester. A letter grade of a C or better is required. Introductory microeconomics (3 credits) One of the following courses is required: Course Code Course Title ECON 1110 Introductory Microeconomics ECON 3030 Intermediate Microeconomic Theory PAM 2000 Intermediate Microeconomics Core requirements The minor’s requirements (15 credits) must be fulfilled by taking the courses from the list below. Please note that all 15 credits must be Johnson College of Business (JCB) courses, which include any course code of AEM, HADM, NBA, or NCC. Of the courses taken, at least 2 of the 5 courses need to be 3000 level or above. You may not double count courses across the categories below. In the general business and management category, only 1 course may be taken per area. A letter grade of a C or better is required. Transfer courses are not permitted for core requirements. Students may not “double count” courses that overlap with the other business minors – the courses you choose may only count toward one minor. General business and management (6 credits) Two of the following courses are required. Only one course per category may be taken: Business Management Course Code Course Title AEM 1200 Introduction to Business Management AEM 3020 Farm Business Management AEM 3260 Cooperative Business Management Marketing Course Code Course Title AEM 2400 Marketing AEM 4150 Price Analysis Finance Course Code Course Title AEM 2241 / 5241 Finance AEM 2050 Introduction to Agricultural Finance Accounting Course Code Course Title AEM 2210 Financial Accounting Core (3 credits) The following course is required: Course Code Course Title AEM 2310 Business and Economics of Food Electives (6 credits) 6 credits are required from the list below. A maximum of 3 credits may be taken in experiential courses. Course Code Course Title AEM 2050 Introduction to Agricultural Finance AEM 2480 Food and Consumer Packaged Goods Industry Dynamics AEM 3020 Farm Business Management AEM 3040 Dairy Markets and Policy AEM 3270 Supply Chain Strategy and Supermarket Simulation AEM 4450 Toward a Sustainable Global Food System: Food Policy for Developing Countries Experiential Course Code Course Title AEM 3290 International Agribusiness Study Trip AEM 4050 Farm Credit Fellows AEM 4460 Food Marketing Fellows Featured Course: Business and Economics of Food AEM 2310 – This course will examine the food system from an economic and business perspective. In the first part of the course, students will study the key economic and regulatory elements that affect the production of food. The second section will focus on the business aspects of food and beverage processing, distribution and retailing, and the material in the final section will focus on a range of contemporary business and economic issues that are relevant to consumers of food and beverages. Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Programs Undergraduate Admissions Minors Business Minor Business Minor for Engineers Business Minor for Life Sciences Majors Entrepreneurship and Innovation Applied Economics Food and Agricultural Business Sustainable Business and Economic Policy International Trade and Development Real Estate Policies and FAQs Graduate Executive Education Contact Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty & Staff Intranet SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Site Info Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell SC Johnson Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.