Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > Conference of Accountants > Doug Puckett Doug Puckett Doug Puckett is the National Leader of the Private Equity Practice and also a Regional Private Wealth Practice Leader for Deloitte Tax. He works closely with the firm’s investment management leadership as a member of Deloitte Tax LLP’s Private Equity, Hedge Fund, and Private Wealth Steering Committees to bring leading practices to privately held businesses and their owners across the U.S. Doug joined Deloitte from Helmsman Advisors LLC where he provided strategic tax and business planning advice to privately held businesses and family offices of high-net-worth individuals. Prior to his time at Helmsman, he spent over a decade with one of the world’s largest private equity and hedge funds, where he was the founding member of what grew to be a 15+ member internal tax team. His primary focus was on managing the firm’s global tax risk – including U.S. and foreign tax planning and structuring, tax controversies, and treaty/substance best practices for both the investment funds and internal (IPO ready) holding company structures. During his tenure with the firm, he also served for several years as deputy CFO and had management responsibility at various times for the family office operations of the firm’s senior partners, the management company and its worldwide offices, and various other support services including HR and IT. Doug has extensive experience in advising clients on all manner of business and personal tax matters. He is also the author or co-author of numerous Thomson-Reuters Tax & Accounting (PPC imprint) publications, including Guide to Mergers and Acquisitions, Guide to Practical Estate Planning, Guide to Buying and Selling Small Businesses, Practitioners 990 Deskbook, and Practitioners Tax Action Bulletins. Doug gained his initial experience with another of the Big Four firms where, among other responsibilities, he served as the personal tax advisor to one of the principals of a wealthy Texas-based family and several of the family’s most senior executives and investment professionals. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT