Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1652745853831 Undergraduate Business Advising About Advising Hours Meet Your Advisors Major Requirements and Roadmaps BA in Business Administration BA in Economics BA in International Business BABA (Online Program) Petitions and Forms Add/Drop Classes Repeat Exception Petition Request of Excess Units Change of Major/Minor International Student Forms Registration and Records Forms Business Minors Newly Admitted Students Associate Degree for Transfer Registration Practicum Pathways Declare a Concentration Ethics Requirement Mentoring Program Regain Academic Success Graduation FAQ Business Honors Program Study Abroad Make an Appointment Contact Information Business Advising Center BusinessAdvising@fullerton.edu (657) 278-2211 SGMH 1201 Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1653677768776 Business Advising Announcements Welcome to the Business Advising Center Currently the Business Advising Center is experiencing a staffing shortage. This means appointment availability is limited. We encourage you to utilize all the resources that are available, such as our website, Major Requirement Sheets and Roadmaps (left-hand menu), TDA , Live Chat, and email. We appreciate your support and patience. Advising is by appointment (we do not offer drop-in advising). Appointments may be booked no more than one week in advance. If there are no available appointments, or the Business Advising Center location is not visible, that means we are booked, so check back the following morning (at or after 8am) as additional appointments will be added. Please see our instructions for how to schedule an appointment (PDF). Forms: If you need to submit a form or have a form signed, please scan a copy to BusinessAdvising@fullerton.edu we will review, sign and send a copy back to you via email within 5 business days. Be sure to use your CSU email account. Having difficulty registering for a business course? If you are unable to add a course but you meet the pre- and co-requisites, you can petition for a permit. Include a description of the error that is occurring, through the department's permit process. If you are running into issues registering for MGMT 449 please see instructions on how to request a permit. TITAN Graduates Empowered by Commencement Commencement 2022 Connect with a Business Advisor The Business Advising Center offers you different opportunities to connect with a business advisor. You may use our live chat option, email us, or schedule an appointment. Please keep in mind that the center does not offer drop-in advising an appointment is needed. It is important to know that Business Advisors help advisees (you) achieve your academic goals through a concept of shared responsibility and an equal partnership. As part of the shared responsibility held by you and the advisors, when determining what to take in an upcoming semester, you are required to create your semester schedule. Once you have your tenative schedule created you may reach out to a business advisor and request a review of your schedule. To connect with an advisor, select from the options below. To better assist all students, please do not duplicate your inquiry. Business Advising Live Chat Current students, chat with a Business Advisor to ask your quick questions. During your Live Chat session, you will be having a real-time back and forth conversation with a business advisor that is similar to a one-on-one session. If you are newly admitted to the University, please visit the Newly Admitted Student webpage. Live chat is available during the following times (excluding holidays and when campus is closed): Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday | 1:00pm - 2:00pm Live Chat will not be available on Wednesday May 18, 2022. Please note that we may end Live Chat a few minutes early if we are at capacity. Chat with a Business Advisor Email a Business Advisor A Business Advisor will read, research and respond to you within 5-7 business days Monday - Friday. This account is monitored daily to ensure that you are supported. Email a Business Advisor Schedule an Appointment You can book a one-on-one virtual advising appointment with a Business Advisor through your portal or the Navigate Student App. You may not book an appointment more than one week in advance. If there are no available appointments, or the Business Advising Center location is not visible, that means we are booked, so please check back the following morning (at or after 8:00am) as additional appointments will be added. View our instructions for how to schedule your appointment (PDF). After an appointment is booked, you will receive an email to your CSUF email address with the link to the virtual Zoom meeting. Download the Navigate Student App (PDF) to keep track of your appointments and much more! If you would prefer an in-person advising appointment, first schedule a virtual appointment, then call (657) 278-2211 to request a change to in-person. Advising is available Monday - Thursday by appointment only. View our advising hours for details. Schedule an Appointment Titan Online has a New Look Instructions to Access Titan Online Instructions to Access the Student Homepage (formerly Student Center). Instructions to Check for Holds Instructions on How to Add a Class Registering for Classes Video Family Educational Rights Privacy Act (FERPA) Advising Release Form FERPA is a federal law that protects the privacy of student education records. In accordance with regulations contained in FERPA, California State University, Fullerton (CSUF) major and/or academic advising professionals, including graduation and retention specialists, will only disclose information from the academic records of the student to designated parties provided the University has a written consent on file from the student. Students who wish to grant permission to CSUF major and/or academic advising professionals to include individuals other than themselves (family, parents, siblings, spouses, or significant others) in academic advising activities must fill out and submit the FERPA Advising Release Form (PDF) prior to the advising session. The FERPA academic advising release applies only to third parties accompanying the student to advising; it does not allow for advising actions of any sort in the absence of the student. Please keep in mind that the Business Advising Center does not permit students to bring friends or other students with them into an advising session. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported