Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > About > Office of the Dean Office of the Dean ABOUT Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors and Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Business Student Organizations & Industry Societies Kathy Taylor Genave King Rogers Dean of Collins College of Business Kathy Taylor is the dean of the Collins College of Business. An accomplished leader, business executive and corporate attorney, Taylor has a record of transformational change and leadership in both the public and private sectors. She is also a tireless advocate for education and entrepreneurship, as well as diversity, equity and inclusion. In addition to Taylor’s service as Oklahoma’s Secretary of Commerce and Mayor of Tulsa, she has served on several corporate boards, including Sonic Corp., Bank of Oklahoma, National Car Rental and Dollar Car Rental, as well as on various boards for professional and nonprofit organizations. Taylor is currently active on the boards of the Tulsa Public Facilities Authority; 36oN, a basecamp for entrepreneurs; StitchCrew, a business accelerator; the Lobeck Taylor Family Foundation; and VEST, a network for expanding the pipeline of women in positions of influence. Taylor earned a BA and a JD from the University of Oklahoma. She was the inaugural recipient of the Order of the Owl, the highest honor bestowed by the OU College of Law. Taylor was a resident fellow at Harvard’s Kennedy School Institute of Politics and holds honorary doctoral degrees from The University of Tulsa and Old Dominion University. 918-631-2051 Helmerich Hall, 215 For appointments with the dean or other information, please e-mail Karen Elzea. Adrien Bouchet Senior Associate Dean of Academic Affairs 918-631-2943 adrien-bouchet@utulsa.edu John Polonchek Senior Associate Dean of Data, Strategy and Planning 918-631-3659 jap4729@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT