Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected MyCBS Class Notes In Memoriam Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Domestic Clubs International Clubs Affinity Clubs Club Leader Resources Events and Speakers Marketing Geographic Profiles Additional Club Leader Resources Young Alumni Board 2020-2021 Young Alumni Board Young Alumni Resources Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources Self-Assessment Research Professional Branding Networking Interviewing & Managing Offers Professional Development Media Library Job Opportunities CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving 1916 Society Centennial Partners Student Relief Fund Hermes Society Recurring Gifts Second Century Circle Student Philanthropy Major Giving Student Financial Aid Manhattanville Campus Faculty and Research Support Founders' Pledge Program Support Planned Giving Invest in Your Future International Giving Events Events Calendar Recognition Reception Photos Reunion News More Resources and Opportunities Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Alumni Clubs Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Career Management Support the School Events News The journey doesn’t end at graduation. Alumnae stay engaged, grow their skills, and make new connections through the CBS Women’s Circle, lifelong learning, recent thought leadership, and access to career resources and a diverse professional network. Stay Engaged Become a Women’s Circle Admissions Advocate By contacting admitted students to welcome them to Columbia Business School and/or helping undecided admits learn more about Columbia Business School, Women’s Circle Admissions Advocates allow candidates to experience firsthand the unique strength of the School’s network as they are making choices about where to apply and attend school. Women’s Circle members can contact [email protected] for more information. Become an Admissions Ambassador Help build the future generation of business leaders by interviewing prospective students as an admissions ambassador. She Opened the Door The She Opened the Door initiative, which began with a historic conference in New York City in 2018, aims to enlighten, educate, elevate, and to empower Columbia women across the University. Women Creating Change Women Creating Change engages distinguished feminist scholars from diverse fields throughout Columbia University who focus on contemporary global problems affecting women and on the roles women play in addressing these problems. Explore Lifelong Learning Executive Education Program Develop skills across career and life stages through the Executive Education Program. Women in Leadership: Expanding Influence and Leading Change The research and evidence is clear: inclusive leaders and inclusive organizations outperform those that are not, yet women remain underrepresented in all levels of management. This program is designed to help elevate the impact of women leaders – enabling them to navigate the business landscape, develop and leverage their talents, and step into roles of greater influence. Learn more here. Career Management Center Explore career resources and visit the Career Management Center to advance your professional growth. Personalized 1:1 Career Coaching Meet one-on-one with a career advisor to develop personalized career management strategies. Access Insights to Board Service Board Service Advancing Your Candidacy for Corporate Boards On September 10, 2019, Columbia Business School's Women Circle hosted a candid discussion on the path for women to corporate board service. Corporate Governance Program Columbia Business School’s Corporate Governance Program equips executives and professionals who currently serve or are interested in serving on corporate boards with the knowledge required to excel as stewards of shareholders that promote long-term and sustainable value creation. Books Into the Boardroom: How to Get Your First Seat on a Corporate Board, by D.K. Light – a great book with lots of practical information on how to get on a board. Women on Board: Insider Secrets to Getting on a Board and Succeeding as a Director, by Susan Stautberg and Nancy Calderon. Databases & Sources Women’s Forum Corporate Board Database Equilar theBoardList Catalyst National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD) Bloomberg WCD Direct Women Women in the Boardroom Resume Writer: Deborah Blumenthal, [email protected] Connect With CBS Centers and Programs The Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics The Heilbrunn Center for Graham & Dodd Investing Learn About Resources for the Next Generation Columbia Women in Business Laidlaw Columbia Business Scholars Deferred Enrollment Program Get Connected: Update your profile in the Alumni Directory to make sure you receive global and regional communications from the School. Join the Women’s Circle and sign up for the Women’s Circle CBS Hub and LinkedIn group. Connect with Columbia Business School on Social. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions