Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Friends of Finance Hours Monday – Friday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Phone 918-631-3625 Map Contact FRIENDS OF FINANCE Executive Speakers Schedule Friends of Finance Membership Finance Excellence Fund Previous Speakers Contact Friends of Finance In 1985, three TU Finance alumni, Bob Prince, Bruce Currie, and Bob Harrison, and two TU faculty members, Mark Collins and Roger Bey, met to discuss how support could be gained for the Finance Department and how the Finance Department could better serve TU’s Finance alumni and the Tulsa business community. From that meeting the concept of a Friends of Finance (FOF) organization was born. Today, FOF is an incredibly strong support group for TU’s School of Finance and Operations Management, has raised more than $8 million that is managed as a Student Investment Fund (SIF), and has an Executive Speaker series of nationally prominent business and public leaders. More than 200 students have received approximately $1 million in scholarships from the SIF. Friends of Finance is an organization of business professionals, TU alumni and supporters of the Collins College of Business. Members share a passion for business–particularly finance and operations management–and are committed to helping TU gain national prominence in these areas. In addition, Friends of Finance provides a forum where business professionals, many of them TU alumni, can network and share perspectives. The Executive Speaker series brings leading executives to the TU campus to share their knowledge and explore important business issues. Recent speakers include Jamie Dimon, Chairman and CEO, Bank One; Doug McMillon, President and CEO, WalMart Stores, Inc.; Diana Ferguson, SVP, Sara Lee Corporation; Steve Malcolm, Chairman, President, and CEO, Williams; Lee Scott, President and CEO, WalMart Stores, Inc.; Kenneth Lewis, President, Bank of America. Mission & Goals Mission The mission of Friends of Finance is to help gain national prominence for The University of Tulsa Finance and Operations Management Department’s educational programs, students, alumni, and faculty. Goals Develop open and effective communication channels and regular interaction between the business and academic communities. Promote the professional development of our members. Continue to develop outstanding curricula for undergraduate and graduate students. Enhance student placement into business and finance careers. Attract nationally distinguished MS in Finance and MBA students, undergraduates, and faculty. Promote awareness of the accomplishments and activities of TU business alumni. Officers and Directors 2021-2022 The officers and directors are committed to achieving the mission of Friends of Finance, serving the membership, and making Friends of Finance the best organization possible. Officers Office Name Company President Lane Wilson Williams Vice President Mike Osborne Ernst & Young Treasurer T. D. Eureste ONEOK, Inc Secretary Mike Neal Tulsa Regional Chamber Directors Name Company Bruce Currie MidFirst Bank Danny Daniels Marsh Jeff Husen ONE Gas Marc Maun BOK Financial Greg Oliphant Ceja Corporation John Polonchek Collins College of Business Roberta Preston Girl Scouts of Eastern Oklahoma, Retired Whittney Stauffer Trust Company of Oklahoma Kathy Taylor Collins College of Business 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT