Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected MyCBS Class Notes In Memoriam Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Domestic Clubs International Clubs Affinity Clubs Club Leader Resources Events and Speakers Marketing Geographic Profiles Additional Club Leader Resources Young Alumni Board 2020-2021 Young Alumni Board Young Alumni Resources Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources Self-Assessment Research Professional Branding Networking Interviewing & Managing Offers Professional Development Media Library Job Opportunities CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving 1916 Society Centennial Partners Student Relief Fund Hermes Society Recurring Gifts Second Century Circle Student Philanthropy Major Giving Student Financial Aid Manhattanville Campus Faculty and Research Support Founders' Pledge Program Support Planned Giving Invest in Your Future International Giving Events Events Calendar Recognition Reception Photos Reunion News More Alumni Career Management Resources Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Alumni Clubs Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Alumni Benefits Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Events News Self-Assessment The first step to managing your career is self-assessment. By better understanding what you value and what you’re good at, you can target the path that best fits you and evaluate opportunities as they present themselves. There are a number of tools available to help you get there. And we can help. View the tools and resources available. Research Research can help you determine what’s feasible and target the best industries or functional areas for you. Even if you decide your ideal will be difficult to reach immediately, there are likely to be alternatives out there that can further your long-term career goals. The following page highlights multiple resources by industry. Professional Branding As a Columbia Business School alumnus, you have a leg up in showcasing your skills, knowledge, and capabilities, to potential employers. Tap into these resources to take full advantage. As you embark on this process, remember to be thoughtful and strategic as you position yourself alongside other job seekers. The tools listed on the next page provide guidance and support. Networking Make the most of a variety of resources, tips, tools, webinars, and more. Interviewing & Managing Offers Alumni Career Services offers alumni complimentary interview preparation. Schedule an appointment to practice your interview skills. Professional Development On-going professional development is an important part of everyone’s career. To this end, Columbia Business School offers you the option to audit classes at no cost. Alumni also receive a 25 percent tuition benefit on Executive Education programs lasting up to seven days. These hands-on programs are designed for executives looking to address specific business challenges and develop the leadership skills necessary to succeed. Programs are taught by some of CBS’s most popular professors. Finally, if you wish to engage a professional or executive coach to further support your career progression and success, we have a list of referred executive coaches available. Media Library Missed one of our webinars? Check the Media Library for recordings of past presentations. Alumni/CMC Contact Us Experienced Professionals Career Management 212.851.4359 [email protected] Schedule An Appointment The Career Management Center has launched a new version of COIN (Career Opportunity Information Network), now powered by VMock. On COIN you can schedule advising appointments with CMC Advisors, access job listings for experienced alumni, and utilize a robust set of AI tools, including Smart Resume and Aspire. We offer a brief video with some helpful tips to get started on COIN. One great way to get access to material from Columbia Business School and to keep up with what is going on in the community, is to check out the Columbia Business School YouTube channel, where you can see the impact being made by our alumni, and the new ideas being presented by our distinguished faculty members. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions