Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > Conference of Accountants > Mike McBride Mike McBride Mike McBride chairs Crowe & Dunlevy’s Indian Law & Gaming practice group out of the Tulsa office He is passionate about practicing Indian and Gaming law. He advises numerous tribal governments and corporations doing business with tribes. He has variously served as a tribal Supreme Court justice for several tribes, as special district judge, attorney general and general counsel, guest lecturer for the Universities of Colorado, Wisconsin, Kansas law schools, an adjunct law professor for The University of Tulsa, a federal adjunct settlement judge, general counsel to the Federal Bar Association as well as chair of the FBA’s Indian Law Section and the Oklahoma Bar Association’s Indian Law and General Practice Sections. He has represented most of Oklahoma’s 39 tribes during his career including the Osage, Cherokee, Pawnee, Sac & Fox, Comanche, Peoria, Eastern Shawnee, Creek, Ft. Sill Apache, Ottawa and the Thlopthlocco Tribal Town. He lectures annually to the Society of American Indian Government Employees on recent cases from the federal Indian law cases and the Sovereignty Symposium on gaming law. The FBA and the American Inns of Court have given Mike several awards for ethics and leadership. He has tried over 50 cases to conclusion in federal, state and tribal courts including a number of jury trials. He writes, speaks and publishes frequently about Indian law, gaming and policy issues. Mike was Attorney General for the Seminole Nation and served as a “friend of the court” representative when the Tenth Circuit decided the Murphy v. Royal, the landmark ruling that set the stage for McGirt v. Oklahoma. He is a fourth-generation Oklahoman. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT