Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Programs All Programs Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Alumni Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Undergraduate Business Programs Home Programs Undergraduate Admissions Tuition & Financing Business Minors What Kind of business student are you? Are you looking to pursue a bachelor’s degree? Choose from two undergraduate business programs in the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business. Each program is offered by a top-ranked school—the Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management and the Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration—and will give you a distinct set of experiences to match your interests and ambitions. BS in Applied Economics & Management Dyson School BS in Hotel Administration Cornell Nolan School Facts & Figures for Undergraduate Business Programs 1,500 undergrads Enrolled in two SC Johnson College business programs 20+ Student Organizations housed in the SC Johnson College of Business 95% complete internships by the time they graduate from Cornell 36% Travel Internationally for study abroad or service learning by the time they graduate Bachelor of Science in Applied Economics & Management Dyson School For Dyson undergrads, their business is a better world. Consider Dyson if you want to: Solve the world’s economic challenges Connect business principles with unique industries like food and agriculture Help small businesses in developing countries or manage businesses on an international scale Work in marketing or business analytics Take on finance and investment banking Start your own business Explore Dyson 96% Placement rate for Class of 2019 graduates seeking full-time employment 94 companies hired Class of 2018 graduates Ranked #7 Best Undergraduate Business Programs U.S. News & World Report, 2020 11 Concentration options required for AEM majors Accounting Agribusiness management Applied economics and management Business analytics Entrepreneurship Environmental, energy, and resource economics Finance Food industry management International trade and development Marketing Strategy Dyson undergraduate students in San Diego, CA, taking part in the National Grocers Convention where they visited a food expo, networked with industry leaders, and presented in a case competition. The Cornell Business Analytics club works on a project together. Dyson undergraduate students founded the club to practice and showcase their technical expertise. Dyson undergraduate students work with a family-owned business in Indonesia. They learned about sustainable farming and conducted market research for the company. Bachelor of Science in Hotel Administration Nolan School For Hotelies, life is service. Consider the Nolan School if you want to: Launch your career in the hospitality industry Find ways to develop and deliver exceptional service and experiences Apply business analytics and finance principles as you manage properties Own, operate, or develop hotels, restaurants, casinos, and more Innovate where business meets hospitality Dive into real estate or start your own business Explore the Nolan School 96% Placement rate for Class of 2019 graduates seeking full-time employment 800 hours of practice credit required for Nolan School undergrads Ranked #1 Best Hospitality and Hotel Management Schools in the World CEOWorld Magazine, 2018 16 Specialization areas for Hotel Administration majors Corporate finance General financial management Hospitality controllership Securities analysis/investment banking Hospitality facilities design Hotel/restaurant development Human resources Law Managerial leadership Entrepreneurship Beverage management Corporate food & beverage operations Information systems management Revenue management Services marketing management Speciality operations A spring break real estate trek took Hotelies in the Cornell Real Estate Club to Australia to meet with and learn from developers. From menu development to procurement and house operations, Hotelies entirely run the Establishment restaurant as part of a required undergraduate class. The Nolan School board members of the Cornell Blockchain Conference were invited to ring the Nasdaq opening bell in NYC to celebrate the student-run fintech conference. Are you ready to take the next step toward your business bachelor's degree program? Learn more about the application process, plan a visit to campus, connect with the admissions office, or attend a virtual information session. Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Business Minors Contact Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty & Staff Intranet SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Site Info Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell SC Johnson Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.