Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > From landman to renewable energy entrepreneur From landman to renewable energy entrepreneur December 13, 2021 Mo Abdalla When Mohammed (Mo) Abdalla graduated with a B.S.B.A. in energy management in 2011, he — as so many others do — took his new knowledge and skills and parlayed them into a well-paying career in the oil and gas industry. After just two years of working as a landman for ConocoPhillips, however, Abdalla had a change of heart and vision. This led him to seek a new path forward in the blossoming field of renewable energy. Following a year traveling the world, Abdalla returned home to Texas and, in 2014, founded Good Faith Energy. “My company’s vision is to transform the energy ecosystem with smart, sustainable, reliable technology,” Abdalla said. “Simultaneously, I want to ensure a positive and lasting social and environmental impact.” Perhaps fittingly for someone who was born in sun-washed Egypt, at the center of Abdalla’s business is designing and building solar energy systems for homeowners and businesses. “Mo is a great example of the kind of versatility the energy management program helps to develop in our students,” said Tom Seng, the director of TU’s School of Energy Economics, Politics and Commerce. “While Mo ultimately decided the oil and gas industry really wasn’t for him, he was equipped and motivated to pursue a different avenue within the energy sector. He and Good Faith are now part of the energy transition occurring here in the United States and across the globe.” Sustainability from end to end For Abdalla, renewable energy is “one of the few industries where you can have an impact on the triple bottom line: You can make a sustainable living, create long-term sustainable jobs and lower your carbon footprint along the way. For me, that’s also the kind of legacy I want to leave behind.” Mo Abdalla (center) flanked by Good Faith Energy team members But the switch from conventional fossil fuels to renewables – let alone starting a business from scratch focused on green energy – was not easy. From 2014 to 2018, Abdalla focused on acquiring knowledge (including by completing the Social Impact Strategy program at the University of Pennsylvania), building relationships and gaining experiences from various project developments and industry mentors. Good Faith’s first customer did not appear until 2016 and Abdalla did not start drawing a salary until 2018. “But I always viewed startups as much like a college degree,” he mused; “if you can achieve success in four years, then it’s worthwhile continuing the pursuit!” Growing a startup organically has been, hands down, Abdalla’s biggest and proudest professional accomplishment. From boot-strapping Good Faith Energy with an initial loan of just $20,000, Abdalla can now claim over $30 million in lifetime revenues. “In addition, there’s so much satisfaction in knowing we are putting 540-plus meals on the table every day for our amazing employees while also positively impacting the planet,” Abdalla remarked. “Altogether, that’s what keeps me motivated and passionate each and every day.” What’s in a name? The name Good Faith Energy came to Abdalla in 2014, while he was floating in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Peru. But it wasn’t the result of a heavenly revelation. Instead, it dawned on him that all the oil and gas contracts he had read subtly included the legal clause “in good faith.” As Abdalla puts it, “I knew right then it was time to redefine what “good faith” means when it comes to energy generation and contracts.” Ingredients for success Being an entrepreneur and a good leader “requires being grounded, well-rounded, interpersonal and resourceful,” Abdalla said. “You also need a high pain threshold and have faith that what you’re creating will prove useful enough to humanity that people are willing to spend their hard-earned dollars to pay for your products or services.” Abdalla also credits TU’s energy management program with equipping him with a diverse set of skills that have “proven essential” in a startup setting. “In particular, I learned so much from Professor Tom Seng. He opened my mind to the benefits of renewable energy technologies and encouraged and supported me in my entrepreneurial venture – while many others distanced themselves from me entirely. TU played a huge part in transforming me into a ‘solarpreneur.’” Green futures According to Abdalla, the future is dazzlingly bright for people who want to work in the field of renewable energy and distributed generation: “Green careers are the careers of the future, and the future is now!” As pledges to reduce carbon emissions continue to be made around the U.S. and much of the rest of the world, Abdalla sees exponential growth in the demand for rooftop solar, utility-scale renewables, energy storage systems and other smart-grid technologies necessary to reach those goals. How about you? Does a future in green energy quicken your pulse and stir your ambition? Then you definitely need to check out TU’s energy management program today! Alumni, Business, Energy, Featured, News, Stories Good Faith Energy, Mo Abdalla, renewable energy, renewable power, solar power, Tom Seng 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT