Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Get Involved Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Student Initiatives More Student Initiatives Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Alumni Benefits Career Management Support the School Events News Student Initiatives Alumni participation in student initiatives is a critical component of maintaining a strong Columbia Business School community. See below for a few of the ways you can get involved. For more information on how to get involved, contact Alumni Relations at [email protected]. Classroom Speakers Faculty members strive to enhance the MBA experience and augment their instruction by bringing real-world practitioners into the classroom, including alumni like you. By visiting, you provide insights that allow students to see theoretical concepts at play in the real world. You also give current students a firsthand look at the post-MBA possibilities. Participating executives also gain brand exposure to potential hires, while simultaneously giving back to the aspiring business leaders of tomorrow. If you are interested in being a guest speaker or panelist and would like more information, please contact Alumni Relations at [email protected]. If you would like to sign-up online, please log in to the Network section of the website, select "Edit My Profile" from the left hand-side menu, and click Volunteer Sign-up under edit my interests. SPARC Students Partnering with Alumni to Reignite Connections (SPARC) is a joint initiative between student clubs and Alumni Relations that started in 2012. Each year, SPARC programming connects young alumni back to the student clubs they participated in during their academic tenure in an informal setting, usually a happy hour or cocktail reception. Past SPARC series have included a Black Business Student Association Holiday Happy Hour, Military in Business Association Networking Reception, EMBA Young Alumni-Student Happy Hour, and Cluster Q Reception. If you would like more information on SPARC events or if you would like to reconnect with the student clubs you participated in, please contact Alumni Relations at [email protected]. Uris Unplugged Uris Unplugged is a semiannual opportunity for students to engage with alumni in an informal context. The Alumni Committee organizes informal dining sessions where students and alumni are paired based on industry interest and affiliation. To learn more, e-mail Alumni Relations at [email protected] or call 212-854-8815. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions