Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639693530359 Undergraduate Programs Admissions Business Advising Center Career Services Business Honors Program Study Abroad Contact Information Business Advising Center businessadvising@fullerton.edu (657) 278-2211 SGMH 1201 Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639693532863 Undergraduate Programs The College of Business and Economics is committed to delivering high-quality, accessible and affordable undergraduate programs to a diverse student population. In pursuit of these goals, our undergraduate programs prepare students for careers in business by developing: Interpersonal, team work, leadership and communications skill Critical thinking, analytical and problem solving skills Functional knowledge and technical skills Intellectual curiosity that promotes lifelong learning A global perspective and appreciation for diversity Please explore the available business degrees, we invite you to virtually tour our departments and programs. Prospective students who would like to attend CSU Fullerton may reveiw our business admissions website. Current students majoring in a non-business degree must first meet with a Business Advisor to change your major to any of the college’s business degrees. B.A. in Business Administration Develop a thorough understanding of today’s business world, including the versatility and technological competency needed to succeed, with an undergraduate degree in business administration.The Business Administration program offers a broad exposure to business administration and economics. Behavioral and quantitative sciences are studied in both theoretical and applied contexts. Mathematics is used as a key tool in the analysis of complex problems and in the interpretation of data. Emphasis is placed on effective oral and written communication. Students are made aware of the need for imaginative, innovative solutions to business problems that encompass human needs and ethical objectives. With the following 14 concentrations and joint emphases, tailor your program to your individual career goals and aspirations. Concentrations offered: Accounting, Business Analytic, Business Economics, Decision Science, Entertainment and Hospitality Management, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Management, Marketing, Risk Management and Insurance. Joint Emphasis: Accounting/Finance, Accounting/Information Systems, and Marketing/Information Systems BABA Online Degree Completion Program Complete your undergraduate business education with a fully-online program offering an affordable and accessible overview of the field. With a broad-based concentration in professional business, gain an overview of the diverse subsets of today’s business world, including accounting, finance, marketing, management, business modeling, urban planning and research modeling. B.A. in Economics Discover the dynamics that power the global economy through a program that examines economics and its practical impact on all levels of society. Economists participate in strategic pricing, cost analysis, marketing research, statistical forecasting and the evaluation of social programs. Serving as a springboard for a wide range of careers in the public or private sectors, national and multi-national corporations, financial institutions, unions, all levels of government and agribusiness or a foundation for advanced studies in business and the social sciences. An undergraduate degree in economics provides a combination of applied and scholarly insights and opportunities. B.A. in International Business In today’s interconnected world, a degree in international business provides preparation for opportunities at home and abroad in international trade and global business, as well as the global acumen expected of today’s leaders. Global business competency and acumen is vital for today’s business leaders, whether they pursue careers in global companies or small local enterprises that form the backbone of the logistics and infrastructure undergirding world trade. A choice of concentrations in global trade, providing a broad-based introduction to international business, and intercultural management, supporting related coursework in communications and foreign languages, ensure that your program will provide the best preparation for your future. The College of Business and Economics' B.A. in international business provides a versatile and interdisciplinary foundation for careers and opportunities in global business, including coursework in business communication, international economics, international finance, international law, global marketing, international management and information systems, as well as an overview of the essentials of accounting and economics. Minors Whether you are studying another concentration of business or are pursuing another discipline at Cal State Fullerton, a minor from the College of Business and Economics can supplement your education with a professionally-focused emphasis. Gain the economic, financial, managerial and marketing skills expected of all professionals while attaining the units needed for graduation. Minors offered: Business Administration Economics Entertainment and Hospitality Management Entrepreneurship Information Systems Marketing Sales This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported