Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business https://youtu.be/OBtmDOUZkAU MANAGEMENT, MARKETING & INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS Management Undergraduate Programs Marketing Undergraduate Programs International Business & Language Undergraduate Programs Studio Blue Faculty News Contact the Department Day of Innovation Studio Blue is a one-of-a-kind resource at the Collins College of Business designed to give TU students practice employing the creative process by solving real-world problems. Studio Blue’s benefits are two-fold: students learn to harness their innovative abilities; and actual problems are solved for companies, non-profits and other organizations. Universities have traditionally emphasized analytical decision-making and neglected imagination and creative problem solving in business education. Meanwhile, companies need pools of creative talent to draw upon to compete in a global marketplace that demands innovation. Studio Blue brings together business education, innovation and the real world. It gives students the fundamental tools for creative problem solving and guides them through the creative process as they solve real-world problems. Studio Blue can be thought of as a creative greenhouse where ideas germinate and bloom. Innovation is learned and applied to real-world business problems in a free-flowing environment equipped with mobile furniture, magnetic and dry-erase walls, a viewing room for focus groups and observations, an array of cameras and other brainstorming tools. Studio Blue first opened in the summer of 2008 and has already been involved with a number of projects for different organizations. Among the projects are: Gilcrease Museum – A student team in a graduate class conducted qualitative research and developed psychographic segments for the museum; Student teams in an undergraduate class developed several proposals for revamping the museum’s retail store. Resonance – A team of graduate students developed training materials for its CertiRestore (furniture restoration) franchise. Mazzio’s Innovation Challenge – A campus-wide contest where student teams competed to create solutions for how to create value out of outdated pizza boxes. Creative Juices Competition – In conjunction with entrepreneurship faculty, Studio Blue assisted teams of TU students in a national competition sponsored in part by Google. Numerous student projects for not-for-profit organizations in various classes. Social Innovation Challenge – A competition with student teams from universities across the state in which teams attempted to develop innovative ideas and solutions to a major social issue facing Oklahoma. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT