Skip to main content About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Ulmer Career Management Center Alumni & Friends News & Events Apply Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Recruiters & Employers Press & Media Menu Home Search Home About Accreditation Community Involvement Diversity and Inclusion LEAP Leadership & Admin Learning at COB College Rankings Staff & Faculty Directory About the College of Business The UofL College of Business enhances the intellectual and economic vitality of our city, the region, and the broader business world through our academic programs, research, and community outreach activities. We strongly believe that lives improve through entrepreneurship, innovation, critical and rigorous thinking, diverse ideas, and people. Excellence Awards Academics & Programs APPLY Certificate Programs Entrepreneurship Equine Industry Executive Education Family Business Free Enterprise Graduate Programs Global Study Online Programs Undergraduate Programs Academics & Programs The University of Louisville College of Business offers a wide variety of degree programs to help you accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Whether you’re laying a strong foundation for your business career, taking the next big step on your professional journey, or building specialized industry expertise, we’ve got you covered. Personalized MBA Career OutcomesAPPLY Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty News Research & Publications Faculty & Research UofL College of Business faculty pride themselves on real-world experience and depth of research. They value innovation, critical thinking, and the exchange of new ideas. Our distinguished faculty will help you achieve your goals — before and after graduation. Research Blog Career Support Student Support Alumni Support Employers Lifetime Career Support Promise Ulmer Career Management Center The Ulmer Career Management Center is a state-of-the-art resource connecting local, regional, and international employers with high-potential College of Business students and alumni. Alumni & Friends About Us Get Involved Connect Career Support Give Alumni & Friends The UofL College of Business continues to succeed thanks to the commitment and resources of alumni and friends. Learn about our latest initiatives, the impact of our alumni on our mission, and how you can stay involved. CURRENCY MagazineExcellence Awards News & Events Faculty in the News Research Blog College Events FranchiseU Podcast News & Events Get up-to-date on the latest news from the College of Business community. Resources for: Current Students Staff & Faculty Resources Press & Media Employers Contact Entrepreneurship We are innovators, incubators, and doers. In this Section Innovation MBA Entrepreneurship Minor The Entrepreneurship Circle of Fame PhD in Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship News Forcht Center Faculty and Staff Forcht Center for Entrepreneurship Forcht Center for Entrepreneurship Facilitating the innovative-minded is at the heart of the Forcht Center’s continuing mission; bringing ideas from concept to reality through mentorship, advocacy, and resource allocation. Established in 2008, the Forcht Center strives to diversify the existing entrepreneurial economic base in Louisville while building an intrapreneurial drive within the culture of established businesses. Let the Forcht Center prepare your next venture through a comprehensive suite of programs and resources. Learn More Entrepreneurship Circle of Fame Monumental achievements deserve enduring recognition. Discover more about the entrepreneurial impact of former winners, or nominate University of Louisville alum for consideration. Community Programs Learn crucial steps for building a successful small business. Learn More Entrepreneurship Club The Entrepreneurship Club is open to all UofL students with an interest in entrepreneurship. We connect UofL to the broader, regional entrepreneurial ecosystem via events, social media, and participation in the various endeavors created by and for entrepreneurs. We also run the Cardinal Challenge competition each year. Learn More Nationally Recognized Program Our graduate programs have been ranked as Top-25 Graduate Programs in Entrepreneurship for 2021 by the Princeton Review. Innovation MBA Our acclaimed Innovation MBA gives you the skills, confidence, and connections needed to launch a new business or provide innovative leadership at your current organization. Get Started Get Started PhD in Entrepreneurship A unique doctoral program, structured to provide a multidisciplinary understanding of entrepreneurship in society. Explore launching your academic career. Get Started Get Started Learn more about an Entrepreneurship Minor Exit Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business University of Louisville College of Business The College of Business and the School of Accountancy are accredited by AACSB International. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). About Us 110 W Brandeis Ave Louisville, KY 40208 College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us College of Business: 502-852-6440 Student Advising Center: 502-852-7439 Contact Us Explore: About Academics & Programs Faculty & Research Alumni & Friends Career Support News & Events See your return on a grad degree Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers Press & Media Shop College Gear Log in: uLink CoB Intranet Login Blackboard Cardinal Careers Search Query Search Search all Louisville Search all Louisville Search College of Business Site Map Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Financial Aid ©2022 University of Louisville Select LanguageChinese (Simplified)EnglishGermanHindiRussianSpanish