Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business International Business and Language Undergraduate Programs Alumni International business graduate finds success in West Africa Faculty TU international business professor receives Fulbright to research in Portugal > Department of Management, Marketing, and International Business > International Business and Language Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/OBtmDOUZkAU MANAGEMENT, MARKETING & INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS Management Undergraduate Programs Marketing Undergraduate Programs International Business & Language Undergraduate Programs Studio Blue Faculty News Contact the Department As companies expand into new markets, managers must understand the cultures of global stakeholders. TU’s international business and language major combines foreign language competency and course work in international business in a business degree. A comprehensive business foundation combined with an understanding of cultural nuances enable graduates to compete successfully in an international arena. Access to convenient international travel and instant communication technologies have virtually eliminated perceptual and real distance between countries. In many parts of the world, political borders have become irrelevant while proficiency in two or more languages is increasingly the norm in the business arena. This degree provides an exceptional opportunity for students to attain the necessary tools to compete in an increasingly global marketplace. The major in international business and language combines three components: business foundations and functional areas of international business; greater familiarity with cultural imperatives; and advanced training in French, German or Spanish studies. Students almost complete coursework equivalent to a language major as part of the International Business and Language program. The language component is designed to enable students to develop a high level of communicative proficiency and cultural literacy in preparation for using the target language in their professional lives. With more than 60 countries represented on the TU campus each semester, international business majors have the opportunity to compare cultural practices and their impact on business in many countries. Exchange students from China, Germany, France, Russia, Switzerland, Ireland, Latin America and Africa provide an excellent resource of native speakers and comparative cultures as well. International business majors may apply to live in Language House, an on-campus apartment complex populated with native speakers and other motivated students trying to master target language fluency and raising cultural literacy and sensitivity. Program Objectives Students completing the BSBA in international business will develop: proficiency in a target language (French, German or Spanish – or in English for students in the American Track); understanding of the effects of multiple national economies, political and legal systems, and regulatory bodies on firm management and performance; and cultural awareness and sensitivity in general and specific awareness of the culture where the student’s target language is the dominant language. Program Options International Business and Language, B.S.B.A. Combines the business core, emphasis on international business and language proficiency in French, German or Spanish. International Engineering/Science and Language Program A dual degree program that offers students the opportunity to earn a degree in an engineering or science discipline and a degree in a language. International Business and Language, American Track, B.S.B.A. Available only for international students for whom English is a second language. Most of the requirements are the same for the International Business and Language, B.S.B.A. International Business Minor Designed for business majors and combines a competency in a modern foreign language, international business courses and selected electives addressing economics, international relations and cultural awareness and understanding. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation Free Elective Beginning Language I* Beginning Language II Math Analysis and Applications Business Calculus Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience General Education Elective Business Orientation & Planning for Success SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Macroeconomics (Block II) Microeconomics (Block II) Concepts in Accounting Information I Concepts in Accounting Information II Statistics I Statistics II Intermediate Language I (Block II) Intermediate Language II (Block II) Block III – Scientific Investigation (with lab) Legal Environment of Business JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Business Finance Organization & Management Principles of Marketing Introduction to CIS Comparative Culture and International Business International Economics Language (upper division) Language (upper division) Operations Management Language (upper division SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Language (upper division) Language (upper division) Language (upper division) Language (upper division) Language (upper division or study abroad) Language (upper division) Writing for the Professions General Education Elective (upper level) International Business Finance Administrative Policy & Decision Making *An online placement exam allows students to commence their language study at a level that matches their proficiency. Language proficiency through the intermediate level is a prerequisite for upper division courses. Credit for a lower level class may be granted to students who start at an advanced level. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT