Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > Advising Advising ABOUT Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors and Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Business Student Organizations & Industry Societies <!– Online Access Request – Spring 2021 These are extraordinary times, but the University of Tulsa is committed to providing a safe learning environment for all students, faculty, and staff. Prior to the start of the semester, students may choose to enroll in online or in-person classes. After the first day of classes, students may request temporary online completion of in-person classes due to pending COVID tests, current illness or various hardships. This assistance will not generally be granted retroactively, so please complete this form as soon as possible. Please note, some coursework may not be able to be completed online. Complete a request for online course access –> Undergraduate The Center for Academic Advising makes resources available to our students who seek the opportunities arising from a TU business and professional education. Faculty advisors assist students with the transition to college, setting and achieving goals, and making responsible decisions consistent with their educational and career goals. Faculty advisors also guide students in the degree planning process and assist students in planning for graduate programs. You will meet with your faculty advisor at least once a semester, prior to enrollment. From your first orientation class to your final degree check in your senior year, the Center for Academic Advising is your resource. Graduate Graduate student advising is coordinated by the faculty in a student’s program of study. Faculty work closely with Graduate Program Advisors in the Graduate School to assist students each semester through the enrollment process as they work toward completion of their graduate degree. We assist you from the earliest stages of application to our programs and help you each semester through the enrollment process as you work toward the completion of your graduate degree. We also will assist you with information about scholarships and assistantships. Transfer Credit Policies Transfer credit from other colleges and universities are subject to the policies of the University of Tulsa, Collins College of Business, and the program of study. The Office of the Registrar coordinates the transfer credit evaluation and transfer credit approval processes. For questions about transfer credit, please review the Transfer Credit Policies. For more information: Adrien Bouchet Associate Dean adrien-bouchet@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT