Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected MyCBS Class Notes In Memoriam Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Domestic Clubs International Clubs Affinity Clubs Club Leader Resources Events and Speakers Marketing Geographic Profiles Additional Club Leader Resources Young Alumni Board 2020-2021 Young Alumni Board Young Alumni Resources Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources Self-Assessment Research Professional Branding Networking Interviewing & Managing Offers Professional Development Media Library Job Opportunities CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving 1916 Society Centennial Partners Student Relief Fund Hermes Society Recurring Gifts Second Century Circle Student Philanthropy Major Giving Student Financial Aid Manhattanville Campus Faculty and Research Support Founders' Pledge Program Support Planned Giving Invest in Your Future International Giving Events Events Calendar Recognition Reception Photos Reunion News More Events and Speakers Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Alumni Clubs Domestic Clubs International Clubs Affinity Clubs Club Leader Resources Events and Speakers Marketing Geographic Profiles Additional Club Leader Resources Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Alumni Benefits Career Management Support the School Events News Events and Speakers Event and programs offered by your club can take a range of forms, however, events should be thoughtful opportunities for your local alumni to engage with one another and the School. We recommend that events include professional development or education; networking or mentoring; and social interaction and entertainment. In addition to using this event planning checklist, below are some things you should know if you are thinking about hosting an event in your area. Contact Alexandra Kennedy ([email protected]) should you have any questions about getting started or best practices. Alumni Calendar Alumni club events will be featured on the alumni events calendar at a club’s request. Please email this event submission form to Alexandra Kennedy ([email protected]) to request that your club event be added to our calendar. Post-Event Recap Alumni club leaders should use this form to update the Alumni Clubs Team of your club's recent events and programming. All photos and attendee lists should be shared with Alexandra Kennedy directly at [email protected]. Faculty Speakers Your Alumni Relations liaison will also reach out to you if Columbia Business School is aware of any faculty travel in your region. Based on the faculty’s availability while traveling, the Alumni Clubs team can work with you and the faculty member to coordinate an event such as a research presentation and reception, small group dinner, or faculty discussion. If you are interested in hosting a faculty presentation in your region and have not been contact by the Alumni Relations team, we are happy to work with you to develop a list of faculty to invite. A full list of Columbia Business School faculty can be found here. Limited funding is available to support faculty travel. Alumni Speakers If you are interested in hosting an alumni speaker event we are happy to help you obtain the appropriate contact information and develop an outreach plan. In many cases, Columbia Business School may have a prior relationship with your desired alumni speaker; the Clubs team will identify the best individual from the School or from your alumni club to advance an invitation. The Alumni Relations team is always happy to provide a speaker gift for alumni speakers. Non-Affiliate Speakers Alumni clubs sometimes host non-affiliate speakers at regional club events. You can always reach out to the Alumni Clubs team with the potential speaker’s name to confirm that the speaker has no affiliation to Columbia Business School or Columbia University. If the speaker has a connection to the larger Columbia community, your liaison may be able to provide you relevant information, including contact information or an understanding of established relations at the University. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions