Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1640044651502 About the College of Business and Economics Staff Directory Mihaylo Hall Accreditation Schools and Centers Departments Student Programs Business Events Business Stories Loading Blog Feed Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1640044393427 Departments Departments at the College of Business and Economics offer students an individualized approach to education. For information on temporary faculty, please see the CBA Appointment Notification Page. Our departments include: Accounting A degree in this AACSB accredited program can open doors for students aspiring careers in business consulting, auditing, financial planning and law enforcement. Economics Economists participate in strategic pricing, cost analysis, marketing research, statistical forecasting and the evaluation of social programs. Students of economics find employment in national and multinational corporations, unions, and all levels of government. Finance A degree in finance will give students a strong understanding of how companies make financing and asset investment decisions so as to continually improve the profitability of a company's operations. Information Systems and Decision Sciences The goal of the college's ISDS program is to develop professionals who understand the underlying theory of decision making systems - information systems, management science or statistics - and have the necessary skills for success in the business environment. Management A degree in management will enable students to assume their first job knowing that the functions of management - planning, organizing and controlling - are designed to enhance performance and service operations. Marketing Marketing programs enable professionals to identify and design products and services that meet the needs of their organization's customers. A balance of creative and analytic abilities makes marketing managers among the highest paid professionals in the organization. Business Communication Program This program offers lower division, upper division and graduate courses in business communication. Mastery of oral and written business communication skills gives students a competitive edge in the marketplace and is a stepping stone to career success. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported