Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business > Network collaboration established between TU and Dublin City University Network collaboration established between TU and Dublin City University October 4, 2021 Collins College of Business at The University of Tulsa (TU) and the Irish Institute of Digital Business (IIDB) at Dublin City University have signed a memorandum of understanding to promote research-focused cooperation and exchanges between their faculty, administrative staff, departments and research institutions. Dublin City University Business School This agreement, which covers an initial five years, sets the groundwork for a collaborative relationship between the Collins College of Business and the IIDB via the creation of dotLAB Midwest at TU. This will be the first dotLAB network member in North America. The other members are in Brazil, France, Italy and Slovenia. The IIDB and dotLAB Midwest The IIDB is a center of excellence for theoretical and applied research that investigates and accelerates the adoption of digital technologies and the transformation of business using these technologies. Its research incorporates key enabling technologies that are catalyzing digital transformation, including cloud computing, mobile, social media, analytics and blockchain. Outside Dublin City University “We are delighted to announce this new partnership with TU’s Collins College of Business,” said Mark Cummins, the IIDB’s director. “The addition of dotLAB Midwest to our global network of dotLAB partners now means we have research collaborations extending across North America, South America and Europe. TU’s business college brings a wealth of knowledge that opens up a unique opportunity to work together on digital business problems of relevance both sides of the Atlantic. We look forward to the future as we embark on this exciting new phase.” On the TU side, the principal architects of this alliance were Collins College of Business Senior Associate Dean, Academics, Adrien Bouchet and Charles Wood, chair of the Department of Management, Marketing and International Business. “We are delighted in this research partnership with the IIDB and Dublin City University,” Bouchet commented. “This relationship will help both institutions strengthen their research capabilities by utilizing excellent data and faculty resources.” “Sharing data, expertise and the coordination of projects will represent the substance and main body of work for dotLAB Midwest, and will include research publications crediting the partnership,” explained Wood. “We are also planning for TU faculty and student travel to the IIDB and to the other international universities in the dotLAB network to solidify and expand these collaborations.” Activities, cooperation and next steps The creation of dotLAB Midwest at TU will support various activities: Collaboration on domestic and international research projects and proposals on the management and use of key enabling technologies to optimize and transform processes and organizations of all sizes and sectors Knowledge transfer on specific themes and projects Student and faculty exchanges Development of faculty and researchers The IIDB and the Collins College of Business also envision several areas of cooperation: Visits by graduate students for research Visits by and interchange of faculty and staff for research and collaboration Exchange of information, including, but not limited to, exchange of data and research publications Joint research activities Joint educational activities, including, but not limited to, workshops and short courses dotLAB Midwest’s first steps include a return visit to TU by two IIDB faculty in fall 2021. On this trip, Professor of Digital Business Theo Lynn and Assistant Professor in Business Analytics Pierangelo Rosati – who visited TU in 2019 — plan to explore and expand further research collaborations with TU faculty. A reception and formal announcement are planned. For more information and to get involved in dotLAB Midwest, contact Adrien Bouchet at adrien-bouchet@utulsa.edu or Charles Wood at charles-wood@utulsa.edu. For more information about IIDB, contact Mark Cummins at mark.cummins@dcu.ie. Business, Featured, Management & Marketing, News, Research, Stories Adrien Bouchet, Charles Wood, dotLAB, dotLAB Midwest, IIDB, Irish Institute of Digital Business, Mark Cummins 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT