Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Programs All Programs Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Alumni Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Home Programs Undergraduate Minors Sustainable Business and Economic Policy Sustainable Business and Economic Policy Formerly known as the Environmental, Energy, and Resource Economics Minor. The sustainable business and economic policy minor equips students with frameworks and tools to understand the interrelationship between the economy and the environment. You will learn about the role of government in addressing environmental problems as well as emerging opportunities for private businesses as we transition to more sustainable economic development. After completing foundational coursework in microeconomics and data analysis, you’ll dive into core coursework that studies the root causes and potential solutions to a wide range of economic problems related to the environment, energy, and natural resources. Elective courses build on these ideas while focusing on specific topics, such as: sustainable business practices, renewable energy, and climate change. Who’s eligible for the sustainable business and economic policy minor? All Cornell undergraduates except students enrolled in Dyson or in the Sustainable Business & Environmental Economics Concentration of the Environment & Sustainability major. How many credits are required? 12 core credits, 9 of which must be Johnson College of Business (JCB) courses, on topics like environmental and resource economics, the business of energy, and environmental finance. I’m interested. What’s next? After reviewing the requirements below and our FAQ and policies page, you can begin the process using the Business Minors Dashboard. Current students: You can manage your minor and track your progress using the Business Minors Dashboard. Foundation Courses This minor requires 6 credits in microeconomics and macroeconomics before taking the minor’s core courses. A letter grade of a C or better is required. Introductory economics (6 credits) Both courses are required: Course Code Course Title ECON 1110 Introductory Microeconomics ECON 1120 Introductory Macroeconomics Core Requirements The minor’s core requirements (12 credits) must be fulfilled by taking courses from the list below. Please note that 9 credits must be Johnson College of Business (JCB) courses, which include any course code of AEM, HADM, NBA, or NCC. A letter grade of a C or better is required. Transfer courses are not permitted for core requirements. Students may not “double count” courses that overlap with the other business minors – the courses you choose may only count toward one minor. Advanced economic theory (6 credits) One of the following courses is required: Course Code Course Title AEM 2600 Managerial Economics ECON 3030 Intermediate Microeconomic Theory PAM 2000 Intermediate Microeconomics This course is also required: Course Code Course Title AEM 2500 Environmental and Resource Economics Environmental and resource economics (6 credits) Two of the following courses are required: *Please note: some courses are offered in only fall or only spring semesters. As you are planning your minor, look ahead to see when the courses are offered to ensure that it will fit with the plan you’ve chosen. Course Code Course Title AEM 4090 Environmental and Finance Markets AEM 4500 Resource Economics AEM 4510 Environmental Economics AEM 4515 Business and Economics of Energy AEM 4580 The Economics and Psychology of Sustainable Business HADM 4500 Sustainable Development NBA 6030 Strategies for Sustainability (1.5 cr) NBA 6380 Finance and Sustainable Global Enterprise Colloquium (1 cr) Featured Course: Resource Economics AEM 4500 – Resource Economics introduces you to the economics of renewable and nonrenewable natural resources. In this course, you’ll cover the valuation and use of land; water economics, management, and conservation; fishery economics; forest use; and sustainability. Use dynamic models to analyze decision-making over time and connect business to natural resources. Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Programs Undergraduate Admissions Minors Business Minor Business Minor for Engineers Business Minor for Life Sciences Majors Entrepreneurship and Innovation Applied Economics Food and Agricultural Business Sustainable Business and Economic Policy International Trade and Development Real Estate Policies and FAQs Graduate Executive Education Contact Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty & Staff Intranet SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Site Info Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell SC Johnson Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.