Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business Computer Information Systems Alumni Story View from the Top My TU Story CIS students coach Girl Scouts Lego Robotics team > School of Accounting and Computer Information Systems > Computer Information Systems > Computer Information Systems https://youtu.be/2OpzoCaLyng COMPUTER INFORMATION SYSTEMS CIS Undergraduate Programs Faculty News Contact the Department Organizations are constantly seeking individuals who understand how technology can be used to improve business. At The University of Tulsa, the Computer Information Systems (CIS) curriculum provides students with both business understanding and technical aptitude to allow them to successfully identify, leverage, and manage technology within a business environment. The CIS curriculum combines the basic business core curriculum (with courses in Computer Information Systems areas such as marketing, accounting, management, finance and operations) with additional courses focusing on how technology can be used to improve business. CIS students learn how to analyze end-user needs, build business information systems and manage CIS projects. Students also learn the strategic value of information technology from an overall organizational perspective. Program Objectives Students completing the Computer Information Systems, B.S.B.A. major will demonstrate: Demonstrate the systems development skills necessary to become a successful professional in the field of CIS. Demonstrate the data modeling, business process modeling, and data analytics skills to become a successful professional in the field of CIS. Demonstrate computer date networking knowledge and skills necessary to become a successful professional in the field of CIS. Demonstrate the project management skills necessary to become a successful professional in the field of CIS. Program Options Computer Information Systems, B.S.B.A. Provides a basic understanding of information technologies and teaches the skills necessary to employ information technology resources with the objective of enhancing organization and user performance. Computer Information Systems Minor Designed for students who want to develop their information technology skills beyond the level required by their major field of study. Cyber Security Minor Combines information systems, including computer information systems, information technology, and computer science with cyber security and its relevant applications in the business world. Business Analytics Minor Combines data analytics with information systems, including computer information systems, information technology, and computer science. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation* General Education Elective Math with Applications Business Calculus Introduction to Spreadsheets Block III – Scientific Investigation Foreign Language I Foreign Language II Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Block II – Historical and Social Interpretation Business Orientation & Planning for Success SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Macroeconomics (Block II) Microeconomics (Block II) Concepts in Accounting Information I Concepts in Accounting Information II Statistics I Statistics II Business Programming Concepts I Legal Environment of Business CIS for Business Business Programming Concepts II Essential Business Skill Development JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Principles of Marketing Operations Management Business Finance Principles of Management Advanced Spreadsheet Applications Business Programming Concepts III Database Design and Applications CIS Elective Telecommunications General Education Elective Strategies for Career Success Block II – Historical and Social Interpretation SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Systems Analysis and Design Systems Development Project Free Elective (upper level) General Education Elective Block III – Scientific Investigation w/ Lab General Education Elective (upper level) Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience Free Elective (upper level) Writing for the Professions Strategic Management Professional Opportunities Computer and information systems managers spend most of their time in offices. Most work at least 40 hours a week and some may have to work evenings and weekends to meet deadlines or solve unexpected problems. Some computer and information systems managers may experience considerable pressure in meeting technical goals with short deadlines or tight budgets. As networks continue to expand and more work is done remotely, computer and information systems managers will increasingly have to communicate with and oversee offsite employees using modems, laptops, e-mail and the Internet. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statics) Companies Hiring CIS Graduates ABB Bank of Oklahoma CasinoCashTrac Chick-fil-a ConocoPhillips Cox Communications Crowe Devon Energy Dropbox PayCom Helmerich and Payne Hewlett-Packard Level-3 Communications ONEOK ONE Gas Phillips 66 Rule4 Stinnett & Associates True Digital Security Walmart Williams WPX Energy Career Opportunities in CIS • Information Systems Analyst • Data Security Analyst • IT Project Manager • Technical Consultant • Systems Analysts • Database Administrator • Computer Sales • Network Systems Administrator • Business Analysts Career Services The Business Career Center at TU helps students transition from campus life to their dream profession. Career Services staff provide students with a plan for graduate studies, internship opportunities, or assists in landing the ideal job upon graduation. Handshake is an online connection with tools and resources to help students begin their career. The web portal brings students, alumni, and employers together in a convenient method to apply for jobs, schedule interviews, and communicate with each other in a convenient and easy. Undergraduate Employment Surveys Every year TU conducts an undergraduate employment survey in order to collect data revolving around job placement of graduating seniors. 2017-2018 Undergraduate Employment Survey 2017-2018 Graduate Employment Survey 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT