Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Business Faculty Business Hall of Fame Honors & Awards Executive Advisory Board Points of Pride Magazines Jolt @ TU Business Friends of Finance Conference of Accountants Bryan Bodnar Nicholas T. Cappiello III, CPA David Cole John E. Curzon Maria Dunn Kaitlin Flinn, CPA Jill Geiger Heidi Hartman Kian Kamas Lucinda Kenning Mike McBride Doug Puckett Vincent Rodriguez Chad Wilkerson Jeff Wilkie Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Business Programs Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance & Operations Management Management, Marketing & International Business Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce Graduate Business Programs Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Collins College of Business School of Energy Economics, Policy and Commerce Innovation Alternative and renewable energy education 918-631-2589 Helmerich Hall 201 Map Email https://youtu.be/BAS6WcG6yvc ENERGY ECONOMICS, POLICY AND COMMERCE Undergraduate Programs Master of Energy Business Online Veterans in Energy Research & Outreach Faculty News Contact the Department As the world’s energy consumption continues to grow, the demand to develop and train a new generation of energy professionals who can meet the challenge will continue to exist. Located in the heart of energy-rich Oklahoma, TU’s School of Energy Economics, Policy and Commerce offers both undergraduate and graduate programs taught by an interdisciplinary, residential faculty possessing the highest academic credentials and direct industry work experience. Faculty expertise encompasses various aspects of domestic and international energy operations and commerce, including law, finance, accounting, policy, markets, economics, engineering and geoscience. Faculty members are active in numerous professional associations and they engage in research at the intersection of business, science and technology that benefits various components of the global energy complex. While the school has strong ties to the oil and gas sector, its programs reflect the philosophy that the energy industry is a total system that is continually evolving and must be viewed from a long-term, sustainable perspective. Students develop solid expertise in upstream, midstream, and downstream oil and gas business functions and operations, but they also investigate various aspects of other industry sectors, including alternative fuels, power, and energy efficiency. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT