Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1640044651502 About the College of Business and Economics Staff Directory Mihaylo Hall Accreditation Schools and Centers Departments Student Programs Business Events Business Stories Loading Blog Feed Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1652454106753 About the College of Business and Economics Located in one of the most vibrant and entrepreneurial business communities in the United States, the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton is the largest accredited business school on the West Coast, nationally recognized for accreditation in both its business and accounting programs. The college provides a world-class business education, offering graduate and undergraduate programs that integrate classroom education with best business practices, technology, award-winning research, functional applications and real-world experience. Our network of more than 70,000 alumni and business partners are the driving force of Southern California business. Guiding Principles We are committed to leading business education through the guiding principles of program quality, balancing theory and practice, and expanding our outreach and visibility. Program Quality. We will ensure positive student learning outcomes, recruit and retain high quality faculty, and maintain dual AACSB accreditation in accounting and business. Balancing Theory and Practice. We prepare our graduates to make a positive difference with leading edge instruction and experiential learning! Expanding Outreach and Visibility. We enhance our visibility as the driving force of business in Southern California by developing relationships, resources and programs. Our Vision and Mission We lead business education on the West Coast. We create positive change by leveraging the curiosity, entrepreneurial spirit and diversity of our students. We inspire our students and other partners to transform the workforce through innovative, impactful instruction and research. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported