Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Welcome About Departments Centers and Institutes Staff Directory Accreditation and Rankings Contact Us Events Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Certificate Programs Current Students Supporting Student Success Undergraduate Advising Student Programs Graduate Advising Tutoring Career Services Student Technology Services Alumni Events Business Community Engagement Alumni Stories Alumni Association Membership Update Information Ways to Give Community Business Community Engagement Dean's Advisory Board Executive Council Centers and Institutes Events Experts Guide Hiring Students Support the College Faculty/Staff Assessment and Support Staff Directory Departments IT Services Events Creative Services Close Navigation Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639694387417 Department of Finance Program Courses Undergraduate Graduate Roadmaps Students Resources Permit Request Job Information Advising Tracks Center for Real Estate Finance 320 CFA Program Titan Capital Management Financial Planning Program Business Honors Faculty Information Faculty Office Hours Faculty Profiles Faculty Research CBA Appointment Notification School of Risk Management and Insurance Center for Real Estate FAQ Contact Us AACSB Accredited Contact Information Finance Department financedept@fullerton.edu (657) 278-2217 SGMH 5113 Finance News Loading Blog Feed Accountancy Economics Finance ISDS Management Marketing Last Published http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/servlet/OX/csufullerton/ob.gif?user=CBE&site=MihayloPublic&date=1639694391457 Welcome to the Department of Finance Ubiquitous in business, the field of finance offers you numerous pathways toward a fulfilling career. The finance program at Cal State Fullerton's College of Business and Economics offers extraordinary opportunities both inside and outside the classroom – all designed to best prepare you for professional success. Chartered Financial Analyst Program The Cal State Fullerton Investments and Financial Planning Track is accredited and endorsed by the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Institute as part of the institute’s Affiliation Program. This means that candidates for this prestigious examination can complete relevant coursework at the college to prepare them for the CFA Level I exam, which is offered twice annually in June and December. Titan Capital Management The mission of Titan Capital Management is to provide students with the opportunity to apply knowledge and skills learned in the classroom to manage investment portfolios in ‘real time’. Personal Financial Planning Program The college's award-winning Personal Financial Planning Program has been continuously registered with the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards since 1990. It prepares students to become professional, competent and ethical personal financial planners. In 2017, the program became ranked by Financial Planning as one of the nation’s top-tier personal financial planning programs. School of Risk Management and Insurance The School of Risk Management and Insurance is home to undergraduate and graduate programs of study designed for students seeking careers in the insurance and financial services industries. Careers emphasized in the program relate to actuarial analysis, claims, financial planning, insurance, marketing, risk management, portfolio management, sales, technology and underwriting. Center for Real Estate The Center for Real Estate offers a real estate program designed for students who are principally interested in careers in the real estate industry. The program covers general and specialized real estate knowledge that is applicable to professional areas such as real estate finance and investment, brokerage, market analysis, and appraisal as well as being pertinent to the acquisition, development, management, and disposition of real property. This site is maintained by the College of Business and Economics at California State University, Fullerton. To report an error or accessibility problem, please contact theweb administrator. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue CSUF Accessibility Privacy Policy (PDF) Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Please enable javascript for the best experience. Frames Not Supported