Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Alumni Lifetime Network Graduating Students Stay Connected MyCBS Class Notes In Memoriam Get Involved Student Initiatives Ambassador Program Columbia Career Network Social Media Alumni Clubs Domestic Clubs International Clubs Affinity Clubs Club Leader Resources Events and Speakers Marketing Geographic Profiles Additional Club Leader Resources Young Alumni Board 2020-2021 Young Alumni Board Young Alumni Resources Women's Circle Resources and Opportunities Research, Insights, and Spotlights Alumni Benefits Lifetime Email Forwarding Go Back to Class Executive Education Career Management Alumni Edge Additional Resources Top 20 Alumni Checklist Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources Self-Assessment Research Professional Branding Networking Interviewing & Managing Offers Professional Development Media Library Job Opportunities CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Make a Gift Ways to Give Corporate Giving Annual Giving 1916 Society Centennial Partners Student Relief Fund Hermes Society Recurring Gifts Second Century Circle Student Philanthropy Major Giving Student Financial Aid Manhattanville Campus Faculty and Research Support Founders' Pledge Program Support Planned Giving Invest in Your Future International Giving Events Events Calendar Recognition Reception Photos Reunion News More FAQ Alumni Alumni Lifetime Network Alumni Clubs Young Alumni Board Women's Circle Alumni Benefits Career Management Alumni Career Management Resources CBS Experienced Professionals Career Management Team Recruiting Talent FAQ Support the School Events News Do you offer career coaching sessions? Yes. Alumni Career Management staff is available to meet with alumni of the Business School at no charge, based on coach availability, and scope of the alumni's coaching needs. To set up an appointment, please log into COIN, or contact our Alumni Career Management department at [email protected]. If you would like to establish an ongoing coaching arrangement, please visit the list of referred career and executive coaches in the Executive Coaches in Private Practice section. I am having trouble logging in to the alumni website. What should I do? If you are having trouble logging in, you may need to close and restart your browser. Additionally, you can look up, or reset your UNI here. If you are still having trouble, please contact Alumni Relations at 212-854-8815 or [email protected]. You will also need your UNI and password to log into the COIN platform. How can I register for upcoming career events? To register for an upcoming event, please log in to CampusGroups at https://groups.gsb.columbia.edu/ If you still have difficulties registering, you can also contact Alumni Relations directly at [email protected] or 212-854-8815. How can I search for jobs through the alumni website? The jobs posted on COIN are specifically for Columbia Business School alumni seeking experienced level opportunities. You will be able to search for specific postings, save jobs, manage your profile, and update your résumé. How can I post a job to the Alumni website? Columbia Business School utilizes a free, on-line job board that you can use to publicize any job opportunities you may have year-round, at any level and for any market. In addition to our current MBA, Executive MBA, and MS students, our global alumni base of over 50,000 graduates also accesses this board for job opportunities. The first time you post on our job board, COIN, you will need to create an account. Go to https://www.vmock.com/columbiabusinessschool/employer-login and click Sign Up. Enter your work email address (your lifetime GSB email address is reserved for your use as a job seeker not employer) and wait for the verification email . Follow the link in the email and complete your profile. Click Next, complete your organization’s profile and click Finish. Click Schools on the left side panel and click Connect next to Columbia Business School Click Jobs in the left navigation pane. Click the Create Job button in the top right corner of the screen. Enter a Job Title and Create. Fill in job details and click Save and Next. Fill in Application, Recruitment and Compensation Details (optional) and click Post Job to submit the job to the Career Management Center for approval. Note: Until the job is approved by the CMC (usually within one business day), the job will be visible under Pending for Approval or Approved but Not Yet Published. What types of career resources are available to me? A variety of career resources are available for alumni, including individual career counseling, career events and newsletters, and comprehensive job search tools. For more information, check out the Career Management Resources available for Alumni. Alumni/CMC Contact Us Experienced Professionals Career Management 212.851.4359 [email protected] Schedule An Appointment The Career Management Center has launched a new version of COIN (Career Opportunity Information Network), now powered by VMock. On COIN you can schedule advising appointments with CMC Advisors, access job listings for experienced alumni, and utilize a robust set of AI tools, including Smart Resume and Aspire. We offer a brief video with some helpful tips to get started on COIN. One great way to get access to material from Columbia Business School and to keep up with what is going on in the community, is to check out the Columbia Business School YouTube channel, where you can see the impact being made by our alumni, and the new ideas being presented by our distinguished faculty members. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions