College of Business About Us Our Mission & VisionAdvisory BoardCollege LeadershipStaffNewsroomPodcast: Is This Really a Thing?Dean’s Excellence AwardsConferences & EventsDirections Academics Academic Departments and SchoolsUndergraduate ProgramsGraduate ProgramsUCF MBAOffice of Professional DevelopmentKnightlineScholarshipsStudent ExperienceStudy Abroad Faculty & Research Faculty ListingFaculty ResearchCenters, Institutes, Labs & Offices Corporate Partners & Alumni Office of Outreach & EngagementDean’s Speaker SeriesThe EXCHANGEProfessional Selling ProgramStudent AmbassadorsAlumni & FriendsHall of FameGiving Knightline Welcome to KnightlineKnightline for StudentsKnightline for Employers Business School for the 21st Century Find Degree Info Make an Appointment with a Career Coach View Upcoming Events Jump to page content Not Your Average Business School UCF College of Business is leading the charge into the next generation of business and education. Established in 1968, UCF College of Business offers degrees at the bachelor’s, master’s, doctoral and executive levels. All programs, as well as the Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting, are accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. Is This Really a Thing? A new podcast from Paul Jarley, Ph.D., Dean of the College of Business. Listen Now Upcoming Events Jun 2 11:00 am How To Face Your Fears, Activate Courage, and Build Self-Confidence with Dr. Brooke Stuart In this discussion, Dr. Brooke Stuart will be speaking about how to face your fears, activate courage, and build self-confidence by taking experiences step by step. How can we begin to deepen trust in our own abilities, qualities, choices made,… Jun 2 2:00 pm College of Business RSO Information Panel Join UCF registered student organizations The Association of Latino Professionals for America (ALPFA), UCF DECA, Knights Association of Project Management (KAPM) and Pegasus Group (PG), as they discuss their organizations and how students can get involved. This is a great… Jun 6 11:00 am Understanding Non-Profits with Marni Stahlman from Mental Health Association CFL Marni Stahlman is the President/CEO of the Mental Health Association of Central Florida. Marni has worked with non-profits for many years and has insight on how they operate, the benefits they provide their communities and how students can be involved… Jun 6 3:00 pm Diversity and Inclusion with Northwestern Mutual Northwestern Mutual has been recognized as a leader for employees in Diversity, Multicultural Women, Disability Inclusion and LGBTQ+ Equality. Learn from NWM employees who will speak on the impact this has on them and their peers and why having an… Jun 7 11:00 am Fireside Chat with Clifton Grady from Amazon Join Amazon Sr. Project Manager Clifton Grady, discuss his career from college graduate to working with one of the largest global companies. Clifton will talk about his various leadership roles with Amazon and what opportunities they provided him. Jun 7 3:00 pm From Intern to Influence: Building Your Network Starting TODAY UCF College of Business Alumni Todd Bryant (07), Financial Planner & Founding Partner of Signature Wealth Partners, shares his story of how he utilized his six internships (and one externship) to gain knowledge and start building relationships while still a… Jun 8 11:00 am Meet Tarik Kabbaj- VP Business Banking at Chase Tarik is an alumni from the UCF College of Business MBA program. Learn about the opportunities Chase has for students and how Tarik went from Financial Advisor to Business Banker all in the banking industry. Tarik has years of experience… Jun 8 3:00 pm Unbelievably Real- The Orlando Economic Partnership Nicole Euler is the Director of Corporate Engagement, and Casey Barnes VP Business Development at the Orlando Economic Partnership speak about the impact their organization has in Central Florida. OEP worked with Visit Orlando in their new ad Unbelievably Real… Dean's Blog Whether you want the inside track on the college or you think your story could win the Failure Competition, tune into the Dean's Blog each week to hear directly from UCF Business Dean Paul Jarley. Read More from Dean Jarley Why UCF’s College of Business? At UCF College of Business, our objective is clear: help our students and faculty “Get to the ONE.” For students, we strive to be the place where they can achieve their academic objectives to be the ONE who gets the job, starts a business, makes the sale, makes a contribution and mentors others. Students who graduate from the college will be great communicators and collaborators, risk takers, data-driven decision makers and problem solvers. Our team – faculty, staff, friends, and alumni — is working hard to provide the right resources and environment to ensure we deliver on those promises. Relevant Our faculty and staff seek to provide our students with the education and experiences they need to succeed in today’s market. Whether in the classroom or delivering a talk at the Dean’s Speaker Series, faculty members are engaged in the latest research and program development. We offer programs that provide practical, hands-on learning and real-world experience. Each week business and community leaders, entrepreneurs and alumni can be found in The EXCHANGE sharing their stories with students and giving them real-world insight into their industry. Engaging A true culture of engagement sets the College apart from other business schools. With hundreds of events, activities, programs, organizations and resources available, students can identify their passion, practice their pitch, network with industry leaders, jumpstart a career or even launch a business before graduating. We push our students to get out of their comfort zones to try new things, communicate and collaborate with people who are different from them and take risks. At the end of the day, we want to see our students “get to the one” – the one who gets the job, the one who gets the raise, the one who lands the investor and the one who starts a business. Inspiring As the top provider of talent in Central Florida, our goal is to connect our corporate partners and the business community with our talented students and distinguished faculty and to serve as the resource to network and grow your business. Business Programs The UCF College of Business offers a variety of undergraduate and graduate business programs, all of which are accredited by AACSB International – the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business and the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS). Graduate Programs Master of Sport Business Management (MSBM) Master of Science in Accounting Ph.D. in Business Administration MS in Management – Integrated Business Professional MS in Management – Business Analytics Track Professional MS in Management – Entrepreneurship Track Professional MS in Management – Human Resources Track Professional MS in Real Estate UCF MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Professional MBA – Full-Time Professional MBA – Part-Time Minors & Certificate Programs Business of Hip-Hop Innovation & Creative Industries – Undergraduate Certificate Entrepreneurship Certificate FinTech – Undergraduate Certificate Undergraduate Sport Business Minor: The Minor That’s Major Undergraduate Programs Accounting Economics Economics, Business Finance Integrated Business Management Marketing Real Estate Student Information Student Experience Student Ambassadors Undergraduate Programs Professional Selling Program Graduate & MBA Programs Graduate Admissions Office of Professional Development Scholarships Study Abroad Thomas L. Keon Testing Center Behavioral Lab Bloomberg Professional Service College of Business University of Central Florida College of Business 12744 Pegasus Dr. Orlando, FL 32816 Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram View our LinkedIn page Follow us on YouTube Connect (407) 823-2185 General Information / Office of Professional Development (407) 235-3917 Graduate Business Programs (407) 823-2181 Office of the Dean UCF College of Business is AACSB Accredited