Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation BuzzCard Home Students & Parents Faculty & Staff Visitors & Guests Other Residents Resources FAQs Services BuzzCard Terms and Conditions Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home BuzzCard Terms and Conditions The BuzzCard is the Official Identification Card of the Georgia Institute of Technology, hereinafter referred to as the “Card” or “BuzzCard”. The holder of the Card, hereinafter referred to as the “Cardholder”, hereby opens a BuzzCard Account, herein after referred to as “Account”. Activation of this Account or any other Stored Value Account accessed from the Card by virtue of any funds deposited constitutes acceptance and agreement to be bound by all the terms and conditions set forth herein. The Card and any associated Accounts will be administered by the BuzzCard Center, a division of Campus Services, Georgia Institute of Technology, University System of Georgia, herein referred to as the “Institute”. 1. THE BUZZCARD The mechanism for accessing various services across Georgia Tech’s campus and the Cardholder’s associated Account(s) shall be the BuzzCard. a. The Card is the property of the Institute and is nontransferable. b. The Card may be suspended or deactivated at the discretion of the Institute. 2. REPLACING LOST or STOLEN CARDS Should the BuzzCard become lost or stolen, the Cardholder should immediately suspend the card online in the BuzzCard Portal at http://buzzcard.gatech.edu/services. Lost cards should also be reported to the BuzzCard Center and/or GTPD as soon as possible. Replacement cards may be obtained at the BuzzCard Center. A fee of $30 will be required at the time of replacement card issuance, as well as a new photo. The BuzzCard Center will waive any replacement charge for a stolen Card if the student presents a copy of a police report that lists the BuzzCard as one of the stolen items. 2a. NEW CARDS FOR AFFILIATES, CONTRACTORS OR GUESTS. A fee of $30 per card will be required for new cards produced for Georgia Tech affiliates, contractors or guests. Additionally a $3.00 shipping fee will be applied to cards shipped to remote or off-campus affiliates. 3. REPLACING DAMAGED CARDS Replacement cards may be obtained at the BuzzCard Center. A fee of $30 will be required at the time of replacement card issuance, as well as a new photo. The replacement fee will not apply if the card chip is malfunctioning or if the card has been subject only to normal wear and tear. Characteristics indicating normal wear and tear include a scratched or worn stripe and frayed or peeling plastic overlay. The designation of Card damage as normal wear and tear is at the discretion of the BuzzCard Center. 4. ASSOCIATED BUZZCARD ACCOUNTS Issuance of the BuzzCard entitles the Cardholder to the use of various stored value accounts accessed by the card, as determined by official Institute standing. • BuzzCard Declining Balance Account • Faculty/Staff Declining Balance Account (for Dining)* • Student Declining Balance Account (“Dining Dollars”)* *Additional Terms and Conditions for Dining related Stored Value Accounts, as well as other Meal Plan offerings, can be found here: View Meal Plan Terms & Conditions A. Each Account is a record of pre-deposited funds accessed by the Cardholder for the purpose of purchasing products and services through Georgia Tech and its affiliates. Purchases shall not exceed the amount of deposited funds. No interest shall accrue on any Account balance. The Cardholder understands and agrees that Stored Value Accounts may not be used as a credit card and may not be used to purchase credit card gift cards. The Card does not carry cash advance privileges. The Cardholder understands and agrees that Account funds may not be withdrawn except as provided for in Section G Account Closure. The Cardholder understands and agrees that Accounts are non-transferable. • Balance and Deposit Limit: Account balances for all Stored Value Accounts combined may not exceed $2,000 at any point in time. Deposits resulting in a balance in excess of $2,000 will be rejected • Purchase Limit: Purchases made in a single calendar day may not exceed $2,000. • Transaction Limit: There is no daily transaction quantity limit. B.After initial Account activation, additional deposits may be made at any time. Minimum deposits for each account are as follows: • BuzzCard Declining Balance Account: $5.00 • Faculty/Staff Dining Declining Balance Account: $20.00 • Student Dining Declining Balance Account (“Dining Dollars”): $200.00 C. Deposits may be made as follows: • Online via the web at buzzcard.gatech.edu. Deposits made online will be credited to the Account immediately upon receipt by Cardholder of a deposit confirmation. (BuzzCard and Faculty/Staff Dining Accounts only). • In person at any Value Transfer Station (VTS) with cash or credit card (BuzzCard Accounts only). (Credit cards may not be accepted at all VTS locations.) Deposits made at a VTS will be credited to the Account immediately. • In person at the BuzzCard Center with check, money order, credit or debit card. Deposits made at the BuzzCard Center will be credited to the Account immediately. (BuzzCard and Faculty/Staff Dining Accounts only). • In connection with a Student Meal Plan purchase made online via the web at mealplan.gatech.edu. Deposits made online via the meal plan application will be credited to the Account by 6:00 AM the business day following receipt by Cardholder of a purchase confirmation. (BuzzCard and Student Declining Balance Accounts only). • Regularly scheduled payroll deduction. Deposits authorized by Georgia faculty and staff payroll deduction will be credited to the Account prior to 6:00 AM on each pay date. (BuzzCard and Faculty/Staff Dining Accounts only). D. FEES AND INSUFFICIENT BALANCES. There are no transaction fees assessed to the Cardholder for use of Stored Value Account funds; however, there may be a convenience fee associated with credit card deposits to an Account, depending upon the method of deposit. For example, if a Stored Value deposit is associated with a Meal Plan purchase for which charges have been coded to an Institute Student Account, payment of the Student Account charges with a credit card will be subject to the customary convenience fee assessed by the Office of the Bursar for all Student Account credit card payments. Additionally, a check presented for deposit to an Account which is returned due to insufficient funds will be assessed a fee according to the customary fee schedule followed by the Institute’s Office of the Bursar. The Cardholder’s Account will be deactivated until the Cardholder deposits sufficient funds to cover both the overdraft amount and the insufficient funds fee. In the event a Cardholder makes a Stored Value Deposit using credit card funds which are later disputed, BuzzCard reserves the right to charge any resulting account overdraft (negative BuzzCard balance) to the Cardholders' Institute Student Account. E. LIABILITY FOR UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES. The Institute complies with the requirements of Federal Truth in Lending Law. If a Card is lost or stolen, the Cardholder is responsible for no more than $50 in unauthorized Account purchases, provided the Card is reported as lost or stolen to the BuzzCard Center or the Georgia Tech Police Department within two calendar days of the loss or theft. Once the Card is reported as lost or stolen, the Card (and its associated Accounts) will be deactivated and the Cardholder is not responsible for any subsequent card purchases. Should the Cardholder notify the BuzzCard Center or the Georgia Tech Police Department after two days of the loss but within sixty (60) days after the issuance of an Account Activity Statement containing the unauthorized purchase(s), the Cardholder is responsible for no more than $500 in unauthorized Account purchases. If the Cardholder fails to notify the BuzzCard Center of an unauthorized Card purchase within sixty (60) days after an Account Activity Statement containing such purchase has been issued, then the Cardholder limit of liability does not apply. F. REFUNDS AND RETURNS. Merchandise may be accepted for returned in accordance with the refund policy in effect at the place of purchase of the product(s) or service(s). Any refund(s) shall be credited to the Cardholder’s Account; no cash refund(s) will be made for any purchase made with the Card. G. ACCOUNT CLOSURE. (BuzzCard and Faculty/Staff Dining Accounts only). 1. Cardholder may request that their Account(s) be closed upon leaving the Institute. Cardholders are not required to close their Account(s) upon leaving the Institute and may continue to access remaining BuzzCard or Faculty Staff Dining Accounts through Georgia Tech and its affiliates, until such time as they elect to close their account or their account is closed by the Institute (Refer to Item G.6.). 2. Cardholders with a combined account balance greater than $35.00 may request an account closure refund by submitting a BuzzCard Account Closure Form to the BuzzCard Center. Note: Any Stored Value Bonus Deposits awarded are non-refundable and carry no cash value. 3. The lesser of $35 or the sum of Stored Value Account balances shall be retained as an account closure fee. A maximum of one $35 closure fee will be assessed against the combined closure of multiple stored value accounts belonging to a single cardholder. 4. Upon Account closure, any balance in the Account remaining after the closure fee will first be applied to any debt the Cardholder owes the Institute. The Account balance less applicable fees and debts owed to the Institute will be returned to the Cardholder. 5. A Student BuzzCard Account refund will be posted as a credit to the Student’s’ Bursar Account and shall be disbursed by the Institute in accordance with regularly scheduled refund procedures. All other non-student Cardholder refunds will be issued by ACH to the last bank account of record (employees with payroll direct deposit) or by check to the last known address of record. 6. The BuzzCard Center shall close any Account that has been inactive for eighteen (18) months or greater (“inactive account”) which has not already been closed. Refund of the portion of a balance in excess of the $35.00 closure fee shall be processed within 45 days of the calendar quarter end date in which the account became inactive. 7. The BuzzCard Center, at its sole discretion, may also choose to close or otherwise restrict Account activity of any Cardholder owing a debt to the Institute, or any Cardholder suspected of fraudulent or illegal card activity. Accounts closed under this provision shall be subject to standard closure terms as addressed in this Article. 8. In the event an account closure ACH refund is rejected by a Bank, a refund check is returned by the United States Postal Service as undeliverable, or the address of a Cardholder cannot reasonably be determined, the Accounts balance refund shall be escheated to the State of Georgia in accordance with State Law. H. RECEIPTS AND STATEMENTS. Monthly statements are available online at http://www.buzzcard.gatech.edu. I. ERROR RESOLUTION. If there is an error on a receipt or Activity Statement, or if the Cardholder would like more information about a specific transaction, the BuzzCard Center may be contacted by telephone at (404) 894-BUZZ (2899) or by regular U.S. mail within sixty (60) days of the Activity Statement date to the following address: Georgia Institute of Technology Information Technology Group-BuzzCard Center 48 5th St NW, 2nd Floor Atlanta, GA 30308 In the event of verbal notification, the BuzzCard Center requires that the Cardholder submit a written notification within ten (10) business days. When making a request for an adjustment to the Account, the Cardholder must furnish the following information in writing: the Cardholder’s name, GTID and name of Account in question; the date and dollar amount of the transaction in question; and a description of the transaction in question, including an explanation of the discrepancy. The BuzzCard Center will investigate the Cardholder’s request and provide a written decision to the Cardholder within ten (10) business days. If an error is found, the BuzzCard Center will make the necessary adjustments to the Cardholder’s Account. If no error is found, the BuzzCard Center will provide the Cardholder with a written explanation within three (3) business days of the conclusion of the investigation. The Cardholder may request copies of the document(s) used to conduct the investigation. 5. DISCLOSURE OF BUZZCARD INFORMATION TO THIRD PARTIES Information about the Cardholder’s Account or Card activity will be disclosed to third parties only: in order to complete a transaction; in order to comply with a government agency or court order; in conjunction with all other Cardholder accounts in the aggregate but not specific in regard to any individual’s account; to provide the Institute with the Cardholder’s image, use of which is restricted solely to internal identification purposes, including but not limited to the generation of photo based class rosters; or with Cardholder’s written permission. 6. CHANGES IN TERMS AND CONDITIONS The terms and conditions of this Disclosure are effective and remain binding until the Cardholder is otherwise notified. Prior notice need not be given where immediate change in terms and conditions is necessary to maintain or restore the security of the Account. 7. GOVERNING LAW This Disclosure of Terms and Conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia. BuzzCard Center Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Campus Services Departments Campus Services Auxiliary Services Bookstore - Barnes and Noble @ Georgia Tech Buzzcard Center Campus Recreation Center Health and Wellbeing Dining Services Health Initiatives Health Services Housing Information Technology Group Parking & Transportation Services Student Center Additional Resources & Quick Links Flavours at Georgia Tech Catering TechStuff Second Floor of Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech 48 5th St NW, Atlanta, GA 30308 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login