Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation BuzzCard Home Students & Parents Faculty & Staff Visitors & Guests Other Residents Resources FAQs Services BuzzCard Terms and Conditions Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Resources Services Please note that to view some files, a PDF reader is required. Click here to download Adobe Reader for free. Account Management If you are leaving Georgia Tech (graduation, withdrawal, or termination of employment) and want to close your BuzzCard Account while funds are still available. A withdrawal of funds is only available for individuals who are closing their BuzzCard Debit Accounts because they are leaving Georgia Tech. Refund requests can take up to 30 days to process. Submit the completed form to support@buzzcard.gatech.edu. Download Account Closure Form GTID Request Service Departmental HR liaisons must request access to the GTID# Request system. Requests must be approved by your departmental supervisor. Submit the completed form to support@buzzCard.gatech.edu. gtID# Request Setup Form This form is used to request access to the gtID# Request system. It must be approved by your departmental supervisor. Please email the completed form to support@buzzcard.gatech.edu Download gtID# Request Setup Form Passport Photos Do you need passport photos? The BuzzCard Center offers passport photography services. We can create high-quality color photos that are suitable for use with a U.S. Passport application. No Appointments are required. Monday to Friday, 10:00am - 03:00pm Passport photos are $12 for 2 printed-photos or $16 for 4 printed-photos. The BuzzCard Center can print photos for U.S. Passport (2 in x 2 in). Student Chosen Preferred Name Beginning September 1, 2017, the Institute will permit any student who wishes to do so to identify themselves within the student information system with a chosen/preferred first name and/or a middle name or initial in addition to their legal name. The Institute allows students to specify a chosen/preferred first name and/or middle name or initial by filing with the Registrar’s Office a change of name form. Additional information can be found at the following website: Georgia Tech Registrar's Office Chosen/Preferred Name. Once the chosen/preferred name appears in Banner/OSCAR students can visit the BuzzCard Center to have a new card printed. All newly issued cards require identity verification which can only be done in person at the BuzzCard Center. The BuzzCard is the official identification card of the Georgia Institute of Technology, a Unit of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia, a state agency. Therefore chosen/preferred name will appear on the front of the card and legal name will appear on the back. Additionally, your BuzzCard photo will be updated with a new photo taken at the BuzzCard Center. Students who return their current BuzzCard will not be charged for a new card with their chosen/preferred name. If the currently issued BuzzCard is not exchanged, a $30 card replacement fee will be assessed. Card Production and Meal Plan Order Form for Institute Guests, Conference Services, and Special Programs Card Production and Meal Plan Order Form for Institute Guests, Conference Services, and Special Programs This form is used to order Georgia Institute of Technology BuzzCards and meal plans for Institute guests, campus affiliates, Conference Services program attendees, Institute Summer Camp and Special Program Participants. Notes: Submit a separate BuzzCard Production and Meal Plan Order Request Form for each program session requiring separate enrollment. Send signed and completed form to dining@gatech.edu AND support@buzzcard.gatech.edu. Cost for a proximity RFID card is $30. A proximity RFID card is required for all door and gate access privileges, including the Campus Recreation Center. Each participant picking up their BuzzCard from the BuzzCard Center must present a BuzzCard Participant Identification Form that has been completed by the department program manager. Cost for camp cards is $5. Camp cards allow payment for meals only. Department program manager or representative can pick these cards up in bulk. If a meal plan is selected, a $50 per session fee applies for meal plan administration. Summer Camp Cards may not be reused. This form takes advantage of the Georgia Tech Login Service. You will be required to login with your GT username. If you currently have an active session, you will be logged in automatically. Please read the form carefully. Contact Dining at dining@gatech.edu or 404-894-5721 for meal plan specific questions. Contact BuzzCard at support@buzzcard.gatech.edu or 404-894-2899 for card specific questions. Go to BuzzCard Order Request Form Participant Identification Form: Special Programs Please use this form in conjunction with the Special Programs Card Production and Meal Plan Order Form as a program participant identifier. BuzzCard requires each participant to present this form at the time of card distribution. Download Participant Identification Form BuzzCard Center Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Campus Services Departments Campus Services Auxiliary Services Bookstore - Barnes and Noble @ Georgia Tech Buzzcard Center Campus Recreation Center Health and Wellbeing Dining Services Health Initiatives Health Services Housing Information Technology Group Parking & Transportation Services Student Center Additional Resources & Quick Links Flavours at Georgia Tech Catering TechStuff Second Floor of Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech 48 5th St NW, Atlanta, GA 30308 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login