Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation BuzzCard Home Students & Parents Faculty & Staff Visitors & Guests Other Residents Resources FAQs Services BuzzCard Terms and Conditions Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Student Center Renovations Enter Final Stretch The transition to a new building will require a pause in many services the campus community should be aware of. Apr 26, 2022 | John Lewis Student Center and Stamps Commons, Atlanta, GA It’s been a long two years, but the new John Lewis Student Center and Stamps Commons is almost complete. While excitement for the new spaces and services builds, the campus community – especially those on campus over the summer – should be aware of temporary shutdowns in service anticipated as part of the transition. The Student Center will reach substantial completion in May, allowing the recently rechristened Student and Campus Event Centers (SCEC) team to begin the move-in of services and departments located elsewhere during the past two years. To facilitate this transition, most of the services provided by the SCEC team will shut down in May, restarting in late summer alongside the opening of the new building. Full details about which services are moving in and when are available on this page, but the community should be aware of some notable disruptions: The Georgia Tech Post Office will close in the Exhibition Hall on Wednesday, June 29 and reopen on Tuesday, July 5 after the Independence Day holiday in the Student Center. The Dining Hub currently in the Exhibition Hall will be closed beginning May 6 and dining options will be very limited until they reopen in late July in the new Student Center. Visit the Tech Dining website for a full list of dining options and their summer hours of operation. All meeting room spaces supported by the SCEC team will be offline beginning May 28, reopening in phases in early fall 2022. During this time, new reservations for classrooms and outdoor spaces will be on hold. Find more details on this website. It is important to note that, as part of the building transformation, the mailing address will change for the building (now 351 Ferst Drive) and anyone who gets their mail through the Post Office. Those with mail service through the Post Office should check their email for details about their action items. When complete, the new Student Center will include 11 soon-to-be-announced dining concepts, including some returning favorites and new options. The third floor of the building will house several spaces for student resources that did not previously exist such as Reflection space, Grad Student Lounge, and Multicultural Space. Additionally, the building boasts both a 150-seat and 298-seat theater that will support student events, admissions tours, and more. The other eight meeting rooms in the building are named by student vote after neighborhoods in Atlanta’s fifth congressional district, long served by Congressman John Lewis. A staff and faculty open house event is planned for late July, with a grand opening slated for early September. More details on opening celebrations will be listed on the Student Center’s Facebook, Instagram, and website as they become available. Once the transition of services into the Student Center is complete, the last phase of the Campus Center project will begin. This phase entails the retro fitting of the spaces in Exhibition Hall and Pavilion buildings that served as temporary locations for services in the past two years. More about this work and the opening of new services in them (such as Paper & Clay, the campus creative studio) will be announced in the fall. For now, the community can find more information at c.gatech.edu/CampusCenter. For More Information Contact scinfodesk@mail.gatech.edu BuzzCard Center Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Campus Services Departments Campus Services Auxiliary Services Bookstore - Barnes and Noble @ Georgia Tech Buzzcard Center Campus Recreation Center Health and Wellbeing Dining Services Health Initiatives Health Services Housing Information Technology Group Parking & Transportation Services Student Center Additional Resources & Quick Links Flavours at Georgia Tech Catering TechStuff Second Floor of Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech 48 5th St NW, Atlanta, GA 30308 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login