Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation BuzzCard Home Students & Parents Faculty & Staff Visitors & Guests Other Residents Resources FAQs Services BuzzCard Terms and Conditions Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Online Photo Submission Welcome to the community, New Yellow Jackets! Next Step: Submit your student ID photo Online Read Guidelines Online Degree Student? Step 1 - Find a Photo Photo Requirements Recent color photo of yourself only. NO other visible people or objects. Cropped from just above the top of the head to the collarbone. Centered, full-face view with a neutral facial expression or a natural smile. Facing straight ahead, no head tilts. Plain, solid white background ONLY (Flat white wall, white poster board or white screen. NO shadows, identions, patterns, textured or scenic backgrounds.) Should NOT include hats, sunglasses or any other article that may obstruct the face or hair except for religious or medical purposes. Social Media profile, glamour, and debutante photos should NOT be submitted. Picture resolution is between 500 x 500 pixels and 4000 x 4000 pixels. Approved photos: Denied photos: Step 2- BuzzCard eAccounts portal Once you find the photo that you like, click the "Submit Now" button below to upload (1) your photo and (2) a photo of your driver's license or passport to the Profile tab via BuzzCard eAccounts portal. Please have the photo of your ID ready BEFORE starting the submit process so your browser does not time out. You will be required to resubmit the entire package if we do not receive both. 1. Enter the photo upload tool. Use your personal email address, if requested. 2. Upload your photo 3. Submit and click “Next” to proceed 4. Submit your Govt Issued Photo ID (e.g. Drivers License or Passport) Step 3 - Check Your E-mail Please allow 2-3 business days for processing. You will receive an e-mail once the review process is complete. Follow any instructions in the e-mail, as necessary. If the photo is rejected, you will be required to submit a new photo. If the photo is approved, no further action is needed. Step 4 - Receive Your BuzzCard Your BuzzCard will be included in your housing move-in package.. Ready to upload? Submit Now! Read again Frequently Asked Questions Can I submit a different photo after one has been approved? You will not be able to submit another photo once one has been approved. Can I get another BuzzCard with a new photo? Your first BuzzCard is complimentary. Replacement BuzzCards with a new photo will cost $30. What if my photo was not approved? You will receive an email denying approval of your photo. You will be able to resubmit via a link in the denial email response. How do I resubmit my photo or preferred first name? If your photo was denied, you will be able to resubmit via a link in the denial email response. A change in preferred name must be submitted through the Bursar's office. , please refer to https://buzzcard.gatech.edu/other-residents-family. BuzzCard Center Contact Us support@buzzcard.gatech.edu 404-894-BUZZ (2899) Location Second Floor of Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech 48 5th St NW, Atlanta, GA 30308 Saturday and Sunday | Closed *These hours are subject to change during holidays and special events, check each area's page for more details.* BuzzCard Center Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Campus Services Departments Campus Services Auxiliary Services Bookstore - Barnes and Noble @ Georgia Tech Buzzcard Center Campus Recreation Center Health and Wellbeing Dining Services Health Initiatives Health Services Housing Information Technology Group Parking & Transportation Services Student Center Additional Resources & Quick Links Flavours at Georgia Tech Catering TechStuff Second Floor of Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech 48 5th St NW, Atlanta, GA 30308 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login