Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Covid-19 News Responding to Covid-19 Covid-19 is a worldwide challenge unlike any in living memory. Since the spring of 2020, the Georgia Tech community has contributed both expertise and innovation to the effort to combat it. Even as we remain committed to serving our students, faculty, and staff, we have been accelerating our advancement of technology in response to our world's new reality. Tech researchers developed and implemented a surveillance testing program that has been vital to slowing the spread of the coronavirus on campus. And our work has been deepening the understanding of the risks associated with gatherings, Covid-19's impact on the economy, and the future of vaccine delivery — helping to save lives and improve outcomes locally and across the nation. At Georgia Tech, we're all about solutions. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) New Study Shows Hybrid Learning Led to Significant Reduction in Covid-19 Spread As communities continue a shift toward normalcy in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Georgia Tech researchers have helped quantify the effectiveness of school closures on community spread reduction. The Link Between Transit Use and Early Covid Cases Researchers from Georgia Tech’s Colleges of Engineering and Computing have completed the first published study on the link between America’s mass transit use and Covid-19 cases at the beginning of the pandemic. First Large-Scale Study of Covid-Era Birth Data Finds Significant Drop in Premature Cesarean, Induced Deliveries According to new research from Georgia Tech's School of Economics, the decline in premature births from Cesarean (C-sections) and induced… Surveillance Testing Shown to Reduce Community Covid-19 Spread In early 2020, Georgia Tech researchers designed a saliva-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test and encouraged community members to test weekly to track the health of the campus. The strategy showed… Georgia Tech's HomeLab Improves Usability of Two New At-Home Covid-19 Tests Thanks to the work of researchers at Georgia Tech's HomeLab and the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI), two new at-home Covid-19 tests soon to hit the U.S. market should allow for a much more user-… County-Level Calculator Estimates Covid-19 Exposure An interactive dashboard that estimates Covid-19 incidence at gatherings in the U.S. has added a new feature: the ability to calculate county-level risk of attending an event with someone actively infected with… BBQ Lighter, Combined With Microneedles, Sparks Breakthrough in Covid-19 Vaccine Delivery Georgia Tech and Emory researchers have developed and tested an innovative method that may simplify the complexity of delivering Covid-19 and other vaccines through a handheld electroporator. Archive Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Want to help with our research efforts or support students in need due to Covid-19? Help the Student Emergency Fund Help the Rapid Response Fund What Georgia Tech Thinks Besedes Publishes Study on 'Students’ Preferences for Returning to Colleges and Universities During the Covid-19 Pandemic.' Tibor Besedes, the Mary S. and Richard B. Inman, Jr. Professor of Economics, examines student's perceptions and preferences for instruction during the Covid-19 pandemic. The study has published in Socio-Economic Planning Sciences journal. Why Covid Conspiracy Theories Spread: Understanding the Human Behaviors Behind the Pandemic Four faculty members in the School of History and Sociology (HSOC) at Georgia Tech are examining Covid-19 conspiracy theories to help craft effective policy responses to the pandemic. #StraightToTheSource Cuts through Covid-19 Confusion, Finds the Facts with Faculty Experts As we kick off a new year and phase of the Covid-19 pandemic, the College of Sciences will continue to use its social media series, #StraightToTheSource, to share tips and techniques, evidence-based answers, and peer-reviewed data to help sort through news feeds and headlines — straight from our community of faculty and research experts. Ivan Allen College Researcher Shows Many in U.S. Faced Economic Hardship Due to Covid-19 Shatakshee Dhongde, associate professor of economics in the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts, found that significant proportions of U.S. respondents were experiencing economic hardships early in the Covid-19 pandemic, making the need for economic aid to vulnerable populations urgent. Archive Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Georgia Tech in the News Inside the High-Stakes Race to Test Covid-19 Tests The New York Times — Researchers in Atlanta have helped the federal government evaluate dozens of Covid tests and pioneer a new model for developing novel diagnostics. Not all vaccinated visitors can enter the U.S. | Here's what travelers need to know 11Alive — New requirements for entering the United States highlight the need for international travelers to constantly keep track of rules that can change from day to day. Georgia Tech expands on-campus COVID-19 testing for students, staff CBS46 — Health officials at Georgia Tech opened a new drive-through COVID-19 testing site Wednesday aimed at enhancing on-campus testing capabilities as cases soar because of the omicron variant. Rising alcohol consumption during COVID-19 pandemic projected to cause more liver disease, deaths Fox News Channel — Increased alcohol consumption during the COVID-19 pandemic is expected to cause 100 additional deaths and 2,800 additional cases of liver failure by 2023, according to a team of researchers led by investigators at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH). Archive Explaining the Covid-19 Vaccine Two researchers in the Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering, who work with the components that make up the Covid-19 vaccine, discuss how the vaccine is made, how it works, and why it is safe. Coping With Covid-19 Taking Precautions as Covid-19 Cases Rise The same prevention measures put in place previously can still help slow the spread of this variant — vaccination, masking, physical distancing, and avoiding large indoor gatherings. Air Purifiers Destined for Classrooms More than 200 portable air purifiers will be installed in centrally and departmentally scheduled classrooms ahead of the first day of classes on Monday, Aug. 23. Fostering Happiness For almost a year and a half, the pandemic has affected how most people work, play, and generally conduct their lives. Now people are emerging from their social bubbles, re-engaging with colleagues, and, very likely, trying to increase their happiness during a period of prolonged stress. Eric Schumacher, professor in the School of Psychology, taught a course this summer on stress and happiness. Archive Are you part of the Georgia Tech Community and have questions about how we are shifting operations to accommodate the public health situation? Visit health.gatech.edu/coronavirus for more information Learn more about Georgia Tech Research Learn more about our Covid-19 projects Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN