Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Home About Thoughts from the Executive Director What is C21U? Office of the Provost Educational Innovation Ecosystem (EIC) CEISMC People C21U Team Affiliated Faculty & Researchers Research & Innovation About C21U Research Research Roadmap Research Consultation Publications CNE About CNE Read the Full CNE Report (.pdf) Digital Learning News C21U News Blog @C21U Twitter Home Read the 2020-2021 Innovation and Impact Report Learn More About C21U Learn More About the Updated KPI Tool for Spring 2022 0 1 2 A Catalyst for Impactful Innovation Established in 2010, C21U is Georgia Tech’s living laboratory for fundamental change in education. Serving as a research arm of the Office of the Provost, C21U’s team of technologists and researchers support Georgia Tech’s mission of innovation by pushing the boundaries of what is already done in higher education in order to bring the most impactful resources and technologies to learners. We serve as a nexus of collaboration and communication, and a catalyst for innovation, bringing together a broad array of internal and external partners across a wide variety of disciplines. Through a sustained and systemic program of research, experimentation, design, prototyping, and implementation, C21U serves the Institute in thought leadership, educational technology design, community building, and support of Georgia Tech stakeholders of all ages. The needs of today's learners are ever-changing and expanding. As we navigate the fundamentally altered educational landscape of 2022, C21U is committed to supporting Georgia Tech in leading and defining this new future. News Open Call for Artist Submissions to GT-Microsoft Accessibility Research Seed Grant Exhibit: Extension of Self, Aug. 8, 2022 Exhibit curator Birney Robert (College of Computing) has issued a call for artists and researchers working at the intersection of science and technology and addressing topics surrounding accessibility. Accepted work will be displayed in an exhibit titled, Extension of Self: what it means to be human in a digital world. The Year Ahead: What Will Change, What Will Remain? As we continue to live through a pandemic and pursue its end, we hold on to what we’ve learned, seek to regain what we’ve lost, and continue to build a more sustainable world — and technology increasingly informs virtually every aspect of our lives, bringing both risks and rewards. Artificial Intelligence to Assist, Tutor, Teach and Assess in Higher Ed In an op-ed for Inside Higher Ed, Ray Schroeder explores uses of AI in higher ed, including Ashok Goel's AI teaching assistant, Jill Watson. Read All News C21U Blog The Civic Role of Universities in a Changing Educational Landscape - June 2 May 24, 2022 Brittany Aiello - Communications Program Manager Georgia Tech's Center for 21st Century Universities (C21U) invites you to attend a half-day event, "The Civic Role of Universities in a Changing Educational Landscape." This event will take place on June 2, 2022 from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and will feature Ángel Cabrera (President, Georgia Institute of Technology), M. Brian Blake (President, Georgia State University), Gregory Fenves (President, Emory University), and Steven McLaughlin (Provost, Georgia Institute of Technology). Updated Key Performance Indicator (KPI) Tool Available in Canvas for Spring 2022 December 22, 2021 Jeonghyun Lee, Assistant Director of Research in Education Innovation Since the release of the original KPI tool, new features have been deployed to Georgia Tech’s instance of Canvas. C21U is excited to continue to provide this updated tool to faculty at Georgia Tech for the upcoming Spring 2022 semester. We are very excited. Digital Credentials Consortium: Evaluative User Research Sonam Singh - Graduate Researcher The Digital Credentials Consortium (DCC) is a collaboration between twelve institutions across the world with the goal of creating a centralized platform or standard for academic credentials across universities and other education providers so that students can easily receive, store, and share their credential records. In Georgia Tech’s case, we've integrated an issuing tool in our learning management system (LMS), Canvas. In addition, we are collaborating with the DCC to create a tool for claiming credentials, called a “wallet.” See All Blogs Tweets by @c21u Featured Research Predicting Cognitive Presence in At-Scale Online Learning: MOOC and For-Credit Online Course Environments Lee, J., Soleimani., F., Irish, I., Hosmer, J. Soylu, M., Y., Finkelberg, R., & Chatterjee, S. (2022). Predicting cognitive presence in at-scale online learning: MOOC and for-credit online course environments, Online Learning, 26(1), 58-79. DOI: 10.24059/olj.v26i1.3060 Explore C21U Research Georgia Tech Resources Privacy and Legal Notice Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Visitor Parking Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Directions to Campus GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Ferst Center for the Arts Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN