Columbia | Center for Spatial Research Projects News Courses Tutorials Publications People Contact x Close Menu Columbia | CSRCenter for Spatial Research Menu About Projects News Courses Tutorials Publications People Project In Plain Sight An immersive installation in the US Pavilion at the 16th International Architecture Exhibition of La Biennale di Venezia. Browse by Initiative Conflict Urbanism View Project Website The Earth at night, as seen in the "Black Marble." The absence of light does not always mean the absence of people. Night View: Dark yet populated places are dispersed across the globe. Day View: Dark yet populated places are dispersed across the globe. The presence of light does not always mean the presence of people. There are many kinds of bright locations with very few inhabitants. In Plain Sight by Diller Scofidio + Renfro, Laura Kurgan, Robert Gerard Pietrusko with Columbia Center for Spatial Research at the 2018 U.S. Pavilion. Photo © Tom Harris. Courtesy of the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and the University of Chicago. In Plain Sight by Diller Scofidio + Renfro, Laura Kurgan, Robert Gerard Pietrusko with Columbia Center for Spatial Research at the 2018 U.S. Pavilion. Photo © Tom Harris. Courtesy of the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and the University of Chicago. In Plain Sight presents anomalies in population distribution seen in nighttime satellite imagery of Earth and census grid counts produced by governments worldwide — revealing places with bright lights and no people and places with people and no lights—thus, challenging our assumptions about geographies of belonging and exclusion. The project was tasked with interrogating the relationship between citizenship and the built environment at the scale of the globe, where the primacy of the individual, the city, and even the nation drops away and is replaced by data: electricity, trade routes, migratory shifts, and the flow of capital, goods and people. The installation is a collaboration between Diller Scofidio + Renfro, Laura Kurgan, and Robert Gerard Pietrusko with the Center for Spatial Research, and will be on view from May 26 through November 25, 2018. The installation is conceived and designed for Dimensions of Citizenship, the US Pavilion at the 16th International Architecture Exhibition of La Biennale di Venezia, commissioned by the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and The University of Chicago. View the full project video here. View All Projects View Project Website View All Projects Project Team Name Project Role {{person.name}} {{person.role}} Contact {{ person.name }} Center for Spatial Research Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation Schermerhorn Hall Extension #654 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 info@c4sr.columbia.edu Tel +1 212 851 2515 Follow us on Twitter Sign up for our Mailing List