Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Prostate The Boekelheide lab is using the prostate microtissue as a means to identify endocrine active chemicals that mimic or counteract the action of normal hormones. Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Prostate The Boekelheide lab is using the prostate microtissue as a means to identify endocrine active chemicals that mimic or counteract the action of normal hormones. Prostate 3D Microtissues The Boekelheide lab has developed a 3D co-culture system of the human prostate. The co-culture microtissue comprises a mix of human prostate stromal cells and epithelial cells to mimic physiological stromal-epithelial interactions, which are critical in the development and normal function of the human prostate. In this system, the epithelial-to-stromal cell ratio was fixed according to normal human physiology. The epithelial cells and stromal cells aggregate and spontaneously self-organize to form a microtissue with an epithelial compartment, a stromal compartment, and an active interface in between. Immunostaining studies showed that cytokeratins 5/6 (CK5/6) were expressed evenly across the epithelial compartment, while CK18 keratin showed distinctive expression in certain regions of the microtissue, indicating cell differentiation during the microtissue maturation process. To assess the microtissue response to hormones, the microtissues were treated with androgen (dihydrotestosterone), anti-androgen (flutamide), and combinations. Both the self-organization process and the morphology of the prostate microtissues were androgen-dependent, indicating that this prostate microtissue was androgen-responsive. The Opera Phenix high-content imaging system was used to capture the 3D structure of the prostate microtissue and extracted 3D image features for further analysis. Selected 3D image features could distinguish androgen versus anti-androgen exposure of the prostate microtissue. We aim to develop the current co-culture system to a rapid, economical and reliable screening platform for endocrine-disrupting chemicals. 1 of 2 Immunohistochemical staining of cytokeratin 5/6 (CK5/6, epithelial marker of basal cells). Play 2 of 2 3D prostate morphology showing human prostate epithelial cells in yellow and human prostate stromal cells in green. Learn More Dent, M. P., Madnick, S. J., Hall, S., Vantangoli Policelli, M., Bars, C., Li, H., Amin, A., Carmichael, P. L., Martin, F. L., & Boekelheide, K. (2019). A human-derived prostate co-culture microtissue model using epithelial (RWPE-1) and stromal (WPMY-1) cell lines. Toxicology In Vitro, 60, 203-211. PMC6717042 Kabadi, P. K., Vantangoli, M. M., Rodd, A. L., Leary, E., Madnick, S. J., Morgan, J. R., Kane, A., & Boekelheide, K. (2015). Into the depths: Techniques for in vitro three-dimensional microtissue visualization. BioTechniques, 59(5), 279–286. PMC4804457 Investigators Kim Boekelheide, MD, PhD Associate Director of the Center for Animal Alternatives in Testing, Professor of Medical Science, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Research Profile Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Prostate Open details for Prostate Bookmark this Page