Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Fish Liver Researchers are using 3D microtissues to study the effects of pollutants and engineered nanomaterials on the liver. Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Fish Liver Researchers are using 3D microtissues to study the effects of pollutants and engineered nanomaterials on the liver. Fish Liver 3D Microtissues The Kane lab, in collaboration with the Hurt lab, has developed a 3D microtissue of fish liver. The microtissue is comprised of PLHC-1 liver cells from the fish, Poeciliopsis lucida. Over the course of three days, these cells self-assembled and aggregated into a compact homogenous microtissue wherein the cells adopted a cuboidal shape in contrast to their flattened appearance when grown as two-dimensional monolayers. Like normal liver, the fish liver microtissues accumulated intracellular glycogen granules and expressed the xenobiotic metabolizing enzyme cytochrome P450 1A (Cyp1a). When exposed to low doses and repeated doses of the model environmental toxicant benzo(a)pyrene, the fish liver microtissues underwent significant morphological changes and altered expression of CYP1a. We are using fish liver microtissues as an aquatic toxicity testing platform to investigate the effects of pollutants such as the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons found in petroleum as well as the use of new nanomaterials that are being engineered as alternatives to chemical-based dispersants used to remediate marine oil spills. 1 of 2 This fish liver microtissues can be used to measure biomarkers of exposure to pollutants like benzo(a)pyrene, including changes in the health of cells through morphological changes in the nuclei (magenta). Play 2 of 2 Video showing the nuclei of a 3D fish liver microtissue stained with Hoechst 3342 (blue). Video progresses through a stack of confocal images, each z-slice is 1 micron. Learn More Rodd, A. L., Messier, N. J., Vaslet, C. A., & Kane, A. B. (2017). A 3D fish liver model for aquatic toxicology: Morphological changes and Cyp1a induction in PLHC-1 microtissues after repeated benzo (a) pyrene exposures. Aquatic Toxicology, 186, 134-144. PMC5436724 Rodd, A. L., Castilho, C. J., Chaparro, C. E., Rangel-Mendez, J. R., Hurt, R. H., & Kane, A. B. (2018). Impact of emerging, high-production-volume graphene-based materials on the bioavailability of benzo(a)pyrene to brine shrimp and fish liver cells. Environmental Science: Nano, 5(9), 2144-2161. PMC6764784 Kabadi, P. K., Vantangoli, M. M., Rodd, A. L., Leary, E., Madnick, S. J., Morgan, J. R., Kane, A., & Boekelheide, K. (2015). Into the depths: Techniques for in vitro three-dimensional microtissue visualization. Biotechniques, 59(5), 279-86. PMC4804457 Investigators Agnes Kane, MD, PhD Professor of Medical Science, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Research Profile Robert Hurt, PhD Professor of Engineering, School of Engineering Research Profile Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Fish Liver Open details for Fish Liver Bookmark this Page