Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Brain Researchers led by Diane Hoffman-Kim are using brain microtissues to investigate the development of the nervous system, the toxicity of environmental chemicals as well as diseases and disorders of the brain, including stroke and traumatic brain injury. Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Brain Researchers led by Diane Hoffman-Kim are using brain microtissues to investigate the development of the nervous system, the toxicity of environmental chemicals as well as diseases and disorders of the brain, including stroke and traumatic brain injury. Brain 3D Microtissues The Hoffman-Kim lab has developed a 3D microtissue of the brain. The microtissue is comprised of a complex mixture of interacting neurons, glial cells, and endothelial cells engineered to mimic in vivo neural tissues. The brain microtissue is easily accessible, size-controlled, reproducible, and cost-effective. The cells secrete a brain-like extracellular matrix resulting in mechanical properties in the range of brain tissue. Neurons and glia formed laminin-containing 3D networks within the microtissues. We have developed optical clearing techniques that enable the examination of the cellular and matrix components throughout the three-dimensional volume of the microtissue. The neurons are electrically active, form complex circuitry via both excitatory and inhibitory synapses, and we are able to visualize neuronal signaling using fluorescent microscopy. We are using brain microtissues to investigate the development of the nervous system, the toxicity of environmental chemicals as well as diseases and disorders of the brain, including stroke and traumatic brain injury. Play 1 of 2 3D rendering of a human brain microtissue showing astrocytes immuno-stained for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) (green) and neurites immuno-stained for beta III tubulin (red). 2 of 2 Z-stack projection of a rat brain microtissue immuno-stained for cell nuclei with DAPI (blue), astrocytes with GFAP (green), and neurites with beta III tubulin (red). Learn More Dingle, Y. T., Boutin, M. E., Chirila, A. M., Livi, L. L., Labriola, N. R., Jakubek, L. M., Morgan, J. R., Darling, E. M., Kauer, J. A., & Hoffman-Kim, D. (2015). Three-dimensional neural spheroid culture: an in vitro model for cortical studies. Tissue Engineering Part C Methods. 21(12),1274-83. PMC4663656 Boutin, M. E., & Hoffman-Kim, D. (2015). Application and assessment of optical clearing methods for imaging of tissue-engineered neural stem cell spheres. Tissue Engineering Part C Methods, 21(3), 292-302. PMC4346659 Boutin, M.E., Kramer, L.L., Livi, L.L., Brown, T., Moore, C., Hoffman-Kim, D.D. (2018). A three-dimensional neural spheroid model for capillary-like network formation. Neuroscience Methods, 299, 55-63. PMID: 28143748 Investigators Diane Hoffman-Kim, PhD Associate Professor of Medical Science, Department of Neuroscience Research Profile Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brain Open details for Brain Bookmark this Page