Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing About Us Faculty in the Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing are using miniaturized human tissues to modernize toxicity and drug testing--and challenge the need for animals in research. Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity About Us Faculty in the Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing are using miniaturized human tissues to modernize toxicity and drug testing--and challenge the need for animals in research. Our Mission Our mission is to develop replacements for the use of animals in research and testing. Replacements based on the best science. Replacements that are cheaper and faster. Replacements that are better predictors of the safety of the chemicals in our environment that we are exposed to everyday. Replacements that are better predictors of the safety and efficacy of new drugs being developed to treat unmet medical needs. 25 million Animals used per year in research and safety testing of drugs and chemicals 1 in 2 New drugs fail due to unanticipated human toxicity We are motivated by the fact that: 1.) animal testing is slow, expensive and not predictive of the human response, 2.) tens of thousands of synthetic chemicals in our environment and households have not been adequately tested. 3.) government agencies around the world have begun the banning of animal testing, 4.) most new drugs fail in clinical trials due to unanticipated toxicity despite extensive testing in animals and 5.) more physiologically relevant models are needed for the testing and discovery of new drugs. https://www.youtube.com/embed/_af9xS8tV4c Human 3D Microtissues Investigators at the Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing are using human 3D microtissues to modernize toxicity testing and drug discovery. We are a collaborative and scholarly environment for research, teaching and the training of the next generation. With support from the government, industry partners and philanthropic sources, we are focused on the innovations needed to understand the fundamental characteristics of health and disease with the goal of identifying alternatives to animals in research and testing. Research Center research teams are using microtissues to assess the effects of chemical exposures on brain, breast, heart, lung, ovary, and prostate cells. Visit Page Open details for Research Technologies Center faculty use state-of-the-art technologies to advance scientific discovery. Visit Page Open details for Technologies Students, Trainees, and Alumni Visit Page Open details for Students, Trainees, and Alumni Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Us Open details for About Us Bookmark this Page