Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Lung Lung microtissues are being developed as a tiered testing strategy and initial step for screening for the potential hazards of new nanomaterials. Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Lung Lung microtissues are being developed as a tiered testing strategy and initial step for screening for the potential hazards of new nanomaterials. Human Lung 3D Microtissues The Kane lab in collaboration with the Hurt lab has developed a 3D microtissue of the human ling. The lung 3D microtissue is comprised of a mixture of human lung epithelial cells, human lung fibroblasts and human macrophages. The cells aggregate and form a stable lung 3D microtissue with epithelial cells and fibroblasts interspersed and macrophages located at the periphery. This mix of cells and 3D morphology represents the epithelial-mesenchymal trophic unit present in the lung during persistent inflammation, injury, aberrant repair and fibrosis. It also recapitulates the cellular cross talk and signaling that occurs between different cell types. We have treated the lung microtissues with asbestos, a well-known fiber that induces lung pathology, and compared that response to lung microtissues treated with multi-walled carbon nanotubes, a fiber that is a new and emerging engineered nanomaterial finding applications in the electronics industry. Both fibers were taken up by the lung microtissues and induced the expression of genes associated with persistent inflammation and fibrosis. These studies are providing mechanistic insights into the specific properties of engineered nanomaterials that may be responsible for adverse human health effects. We are developing lung microtissues as a tiered testing strategy and initial step for screening for the potential hazards of new nanomaterials. Play 1 of 2 Triculture cell-cell interactions and organization was evaluated in live spheroids during and after formation. 3D microtissue cell types were stained with cytoplasmic (red, green, blue) and nuclear stains (white) and allowed to spontaneously form microtissues. 2 of 2 Fluorescent image of a human lung microtissue comprised of three cell types: lung bronchial epithelial cells (red), macrophages (green) and lung fibroblasts (blue). Learn More Kabadi, P.K., Rodd, A.L., Simmons, A.E., Messier, N.J., Hurt, R.H., Kane, A.B. (2019). A novel human 3D lung microtissue model for nanoparticle-induced cell-matrix alterations. Particle and Fibre Toxicology, 16(1), 15. PMC6448215 Kabadi, P. K., Vantangoli, M. M., Rodd, A. L., Leary, E., Madnick, S. J., Morgan, J. R., Kane, A., & Boekelheide, K. (2015). Into the depths: Techniques for in vitro three-dimensional microtissue visualization. Biotechniques, 59(5), 279-86. PMC4804457 Investigators Agnes Kane, MD, PhD Professor of Medical Science, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Research Profile Robert Hurt, PhD Professor of Engineering, School of Engineering Research Profile Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Lung Open details for Lung Bookmark this Page