Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Hyper-Compliant Microparticles To improve our fundamental and quantitative understanding of tissue assembly, the Darling lab is using their hypercompliant microparticles to study how cellular-level forces change as human adult stem cells undergo mesenchymal condensation and maturation in 3D microtissues. Breadcrumb Home Technologies Sub Navigation In This Section 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography Hyper-Compliant Microparticles To improve our fundamental and quantitative understanding of tissue assembly, the Darling lab is using their hypercompliant microparticles to study how cellular-level forces change as human adult stem cells undergo mesenchymal condensation and maturation in 3D microtissues. Hypercompliant Microparticles as Mechanical Sensors The Darling Lab has developed small spherical microparticles the size of a single cell that act as small mechanical sensors. These synthetic microparticles are very soft (hyper-compliant). When added to a living 3D microtissue, the microparticles become embedded in the microtissue and the cells exert small forces that cause deformations to the size and shape of the microparticles. We have utilized the Opera Phenix high-content imaging system to acquire 3D images of the deformed microparticles embedded in the microtissue. Because the stiffness of the hypercompliant microparticles are well defined, we can analyze the images of the deformed microparticles and calculate the magnitude of the small forces that the cells are exerting. In addition to the size of the forces, we can calculate the direction of these cell-generated forces. In this way, we can quantitatively assess the local mechanical environments in both simple and complex systems at the cellular level without disrupting the larger behavior of the microtissue. Cell forces are critical for many biological processes including early development and tissue differentiation and can be altered in certain pathological environments. To improve our fundamental and quantitative understanding of tissue assembly, we are using their hypercompliant microparticles to study how cellular-level forces change as human adult stem cells undergo mesenchymal condensation and maturation in 3D microtissues. Play 1 of 2 Time lapse video of cells aggregating to form a 3D microtissue. Included in the microtissue is a single red fluorescent hypercompliant microparticle that gets squeezed and deformed as the cells exert forces on the microparticle. 2 of 2 Image of small fluorescent hypercompliant (soft) microparticles, each about the size of a single living human cell. When cells squeeze and deform them, the microparticles become sensors that are used to calculate the forces exerted by cells. Learn More Labriola, NR., Mathiowitz, E, Darling, E M. (2016). Fabricating polyacrylamide microbeads by inverse emulsification to mimic the size and elasticity of living cells. Biomaterials science, 5(1), 41-45. PMC5201106 Labriola, N.R., Sadick, J.S., Morgan, J.R., Mathiowitz, E., Darling, E.M. (2018). Cell mimicking microparticles influence the organization, growth, and mechanophenotype of stem cell spheroids. Annals of Biomedical Engineering, 46(8), 1146-1159. PMC6039261 Labriola, N.R., Azagury, A., Gutierrez, R., Mathiowitz, E., Darling, E.M. (2018). Concise review: Fabrication, customization, and application of cell mimicking microparticles in stem cell science. Stem Cell Translational Medicine, 7(2), 232-240. PMC5788880 Shah, M.K., Leary, E.A., Darling, E.M. (2019). Integration of hyper-compliant microparticles into a 3D melanoma tumor model. Journal of Biomechanics, 82, 46-53. PMC6310620. Investigators Eric Darling, PhD Associate Professor of Medical Science, Engineering, and Orthopaedics, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Research Profile Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Hyper-Compliant Microparticles Open details for Hyper-Compliant Microparticles Bookmark this Page