Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Cardiac Researchers are using human cardiac microtissues as a platform for predicting arrhythmia generation and cardiotoxicity in response to environmental chemicals and pharmaceutical drugs as an alternative to animal testing. Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Cardiac Researchers are using human cardiac microtissues as a platform for predicting arrhythmia generation and cardiotoxicity in response to environmental chemicals and pharmaceutical drugs as an alternative to animal testing. Cardiac 3D Microtissues The Coulombe and Choi labs, in consultation with Dr. Mende, have developed 3D human heart microtissues for assessing cardiotoxicity risk of pharmaceutical drugs, industrial chemicals, and environmental toxicants. The platform technology uses cardiomyocytes derived from human-induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) and human cardiac fibroblasts to enable tissue-like cellular interactions that increase predictive value of the model. Cardiotoxicity manifests as electrical disturbances (arrhythmias), as well as structural, calcium handling, contractile, and metabolic deficiencies. Use of sophisticated high-resolution, high-throughput optimal mapping techniques enable functional measurements of the voltage of the action potential and calcium of the intracellular calcium transient, identifying safe exposure levels and those that elicit arrhythmias. Human iPSC-derived cardiac microtissues show dose-dependent arrhythmia responses to high-risk drugs (like cisapride, which is no longer on the market), low-risk pharmaceutical compounds (like the cardiac drug ranolazine), and environmental toxicants (like bisphenol-A). This platform is an alternative to animal toxicity testing and may be a more predictive indicator of human arrhythmic cardiotoxicity when used in conjunction with computational in vitro to in vivo extrapolation approaches currently ongoing in collaboration with ScitoVation. Commercialization of the human cardiac 3D microtissues aims to fill a need in toxicity testing and risk assessment to be more sensitive and predictive of the responses of the human heart in order to preserve and protect cardiac safety. Play 1 of 1 The electrical activity of multiple human stem cell-derived heart microtissues can be seen and measured by their flashes of fluorescent light. The rhythm of the heart microtissues is determined by tracing these flashes and is being used to identify toxic chemicals and drugs that alter this rhythm, thus creating arrhythmias. Learn More Kofron, C. M., Kim, T. Y., Munarin, F., Soepriatna, A. H., Kant R. J., Mende, U., Choi, B. R., Coulombe, K. L. (2021). A predictive in vitro risk assessment platform for pro-arrhythmic toxicity using human 3D cardiac microtissues. Scientific Reports,11(1), 10228. PMC8119415 Rupert, C.E, Kim T. Y., Choi B. R., Coulombe K. L. (2020). Human cardiac fibroblast number and activation state modulate electromechanical function of hiPSC-cardiomyocytes in engineered myocardium. Stem Cells International, 9363809. PMC7381987 Rupert, C. E., Irofuala, C., & Coulombe, K. (2020). Practical adoption of state-of-the-art hiPSC-cardiomyocyte differentiation techniques. PloS one, 15(3). PMC7064240 Desroches, B. R., Zhang, P., Choi, B. R., King, M. E., Maldonado, A. E., Li, W., Rago, A., Liu, G., Nath, N., Hartmann, K. M., Yang, B., Koren, G., Morgan, J. R., & Mende, U. (2012). Functional scaffold-free 3-D cardiac microtissues: a novel model for the investigation of heart cells. American Journal of Physiology Heart and Circulatory Physiology, 302(10), H2031–H2042. PMC3362102 Gerbin, K. A., Yang, X., Murry, C. E., & Coulombe, K. L. (2015). Enhanced electrical integration of engineered human myocardium via intramyocardial versus epicardial delivery in infarcted rat hearts. PLoS One, 10(7), e0131446. PMC4498815 Kofron, C.M., Mende, U. (2017). In vitro models of the cardiac microenvironment to study myocyte and non-myocyte crosstalk: bioinspired approaches beyond the polystyrene dish. Journal of Physiology, 595(12), 3891-3905. PMC5471366 Kofron, C. M., Kim, T. Y., King, M. E., Xie, A., Feng, F., Park, E., Qu, Z., Choi, B. R., & Mende, U. (2017). Gaq-activated fibroblasts induce cardiomyocyte action potential prolongation and automaticity in a 3D microtissue environment. American Journal of Physiolology Heart and Circulatory Physiolology, 313(4), H810-H827. PMC5668610 Kim, T. Y., Kofron, C. M., King, M. E., Markes, A. R., Okundaye, A. O., Qu, Z., Mende, U., & Choi, B. R. (2018). Directed fusion of cardiac spheroids into larger heterocellular microtissues enables investigation of cardiac action potential propagation via cardiac fibroblasts. PLoS One, 13(5), e0196714. PMC5929561 Investigators Kareen Coulombe, PhD Associate Professor of Engineering & Medical Science, Center for Biomedical Engineering, School of Engineering Research Profile Ulrike Mende, MD, FAHA Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine Research Profile Bum-Rak Choi, PhD Associate Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine Research Profile Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Cardiac Open details for Cardiac Bookmark this Page