Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Two-Compartment Liver The Boekelheide lab in collaboration with the Morgan lab has developed a two-compartment liver microtissue system that measures the toxic effect of liver metabolites. Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Two-Compartment Liver The Boekelheide lab in collaboration with the Morgan lab has developed a two-compartment liver microtissue system that measures the toxic effect of liver metabolites. Two-Compartment Liver Microtissues The Boekelheide lab, in collaboration with the Morgan lab, has developed a two-compartment liver microtissue system that measures the toxic effect of liver metabolites. Chemicals or drugs that are ingested immediately circulate to the liver where they are metabolized by the liver. In most cases, the liver’s metabolic enzymes convert the chemical or drug to a non-toxic form. But in some instances, the reverse happens, liver metabolism transforms a non-toxic chemical or drug into a toxic form. The two-compartment system addresses this issue. The first compartment contains a ring-shaped liver microtissue comprised of human liver cells (HepaRG). The second compartment contains a single target 3D microtissue or target cells in 2D that will respond if a toxic metabolite is produced by the liver microtissue in the adjacent compartment. Both compartments are in a single well of a 96-well plate and because they are formed in agarose, chemicals are free to diffuse between both compartments. To measure liver-generated toxicity, a chemical or drug is added to the well. If the liver microtissue converts it into a toxic metabolite, that metabolite diffuses into the compartment containing the target tissue and produces its toxic effects. An adverse response by the target tissue indicates that a chemical or drug has been converted into a toxic metabolite. We are using the two-compartment model to screen for the toxic effects of liver metabolites. 1 of 2 The first compartment contains a ring-shaped liver microtissue comprised of human liver cells (HepaRG). The second compartment contains a single target 3D microtissue. 2 of 2 Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) staining of liver toroid. Investigators Kim Boekelheide, MD, PhD Associate Director of the Center for Animal Alternatives in Testing, Professor of Medical Science, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Research Profile Blanche Ip, PhD Assistant Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Research Profile Jeffrey Morgan, PhD Donna Weiss ’89 and Jason Weiss Director of the Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing, Professor of Medical Science, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Research Profile Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Students, Trainees, and Alumni News & Events Core Resources Contact Us Diversity Research Brain Breast Cardiac Fish Liver Lung Ovary Prostate Tissue Model of Fibrosis Two-Compartment Liver Technologies 3D Cell Culture Environments Image Visualization Hyper-Compliant Microparticles VR Environment Optical Coherence Tomography This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Two-Compartment Liver Open details for Two-Compartment Liver Bookmark this Page