Home About About Executive Director’s Welcome Our History Our Staff Interns and Volunteers 15th Anniversary Our Mission Academics Get Involved Get Involved Advocate Learn Research CAHR Work Upcoming Events Past Events Past Projects FSU & Human Rights Partner Links NGO’s and Organizations Donate Contact 850 644 4551 CAHR-info@fsu.edu SOCIAL MEDIA: CENTER FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF HUMAN RIGHTS Menu About ED Welcome Hear from our Executive Director and learn how your involvement in our work can impact human rights around the world! LEARN MORE Quarterly News Read the latest and past Quarterly Newsletters to get all the updates and find out what's going on READ MORE Our History The Florida State University Center for the Advancement of Human Rights is an interdisciplinary endeavor established in 2000. READ MORE Close Our Mission Our Mission Learn about the mandate and the mission of the Center for the Advancement of Human Rights LEARN MORE Close Academics Learn 40+ human rights courses have been offered in FSU colleges and departments. Learn more about our involvement. LEARN MORE Close Get Involved Get Involved We offer numerous opportunities for enrolling in human rights courses, for engaging in human rights advocacy, and for pursuing human rights-related research. Ready to get started? GET INVOLVED More Info Learn Advocate Research Upcoming Events Past Events Past Projects PARTNERS Interns & Volunteers Student Quotes Partner Links NGO's & Organizations Summer Placements Close Donate grunge_stroke Learn 40+ human rights courses have been offered through FSU Colleges and Departments. Get Involved Advocate CAHR has represented hundreds of human rights clients seeking immigration relief. Get Involved Research CAHR has been involved in leading research in the Anti-Trafficking field since 2002. Get Involved "CAHR works to enrich the undergraduate experience at FSU, to enhance the university's research mission, and to strengthen the public service mission of the FSU community." - Terry Coonan, J.D. (Executive Director) Get Involved More than a library of information, get out & change the world! Two Day Event - Global Africas: Gender, Representation, and the Maghreb Global Africas: Gender, Representation, and the Maghreb – November 11th and 12th – This event will take place virtually and is free and open to the public LEARN MORE Premiere of the Film Two Regimes- Directed by Douglas Darlington of Winding Road Films About Two Regimes Two Regimes is the life’s work of two Ukrainian women: a mother, Teodora Verbitskaya (author) and her daughter, Nadia Werbitzky (professional artist). Teodora wrote about her family’s life from 1927 to 1945 while living under the two regimes of Stalin and Hitler. Mother and daughter were survivors and witnesses of two genocides: that of the Holodomor (man-made Famine 1932-33 under Stalin) and the Holocaust (1933-1945 under Hitler) while living in Mariupol, Soviet Ukraine. The Two Regimes Collection contains 118 paintings, 150 sketches and a manuscript – now a book published posthumously titled “Two Regimes . . . A Mother’s Memoir of Wartime Survival” by Teodora Verbitskaya. LEARN MORE “Invisible History: Middle Florida’s Hidden Roots” - A Documentary by FSU Film School’s Valerie Scoon Valerie Scoon’s documentary, Invisible History: Middle Florida’s Hidden Roots sheds light on the hidden past of Middle Florida’s slave trade. [Collaborators on the film can be found here. Photos from the film itself can be found here] LEARN MORE FSU CAHR Florida State University Center for the Advancement of Human Rights 425 West Jefferson Street Tallahassee, Florida 32306 850-644-4550 CAHR-info@fsu.edu FSUCAHR@gmail.com Hours: 8:30am-5:00pm Monday through Friday Made with by 223_Agency © 2022 All Rights Reserved About Our History Our Mission Our Staff Interns and Volunteers 15th Anniversary Tribute to Our Founder Get Involved Learn Advocate Research CAHR Work Upcoming Events Past Events Past Projects FSU & Human Rights Partner Links NGO’s and Organizations