skip to main content Close Menu San Diego State University College of Arts & Letters Empowering Students to Make a Difference in the World Apply Tours Contacts SDSU Directory Important Contacts SharePoint Search Home Discover CAL Our Mission By the Numbers Diversity in CAL Dean's Office Staff Departments and Centers Employment Opportunities Annual Dean's Lecture Series Academics Academic Programs Advising Student Success Center Internships Study Abroad Scholarships Resources and Links Future Careers Commencement Research & Innovation About Research & Innovation CAL Office of Research and Innovation Centers and Institutes Grants & Publications Student Research Splice: Undergraduate Journal Our Faculty Meet Our Faculty CAL Service Excellence Awards CAL Research Excellence Awards CAL Teaching Excellence Awards Faculty Distinguished Service Awards New Faculty Emeriti Faculty Our Students Meet Our Students Dean's List CAL Council Outstanding Graduating Seniors Our Alumni Meet Our Alumni Alumni Chapter Alumni Award of Distinctions Give to CAL Meet Our Donors Digital Donor Wall Why Give? Giving Priorities Ways to Give Planned Giving Endowments San Diego State University College of Arts & Letters Menu Explore Arts & Letters The College of Arts & Letters (CAL) offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in the humanities and social sciences. Our programs explore the dynamics of human experiences, personal identities, cultural and cross-cultural expressions and practices, and philosophical beliefs regarding human life and existence. As a community of learners, students deepen their understanding of history and prehistory, literatures, languages, religions, gender, ethnicity, class and race, and social and political actions. Our faculty are highly qualified, recognized experts in their disciplines, who make excellence in teaching, as well as research their priority. Our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion leads to our recognition of and responsibility for being part of a proud transborder, Hispanic-serving institution (HSI) located on the lands of the Kumeyaay Nation. Academic Programs Departments & Centers Study Abroad Programs Summer Session San Diego State University summer courses can help you get ahead in your coursework and stay connected to your professors and the campus over the summer. Taking just one summer session course can put you on track to graduate on time or leave room in your schedule for an internship, a job, participation in a student organization next year, or other valuable experience. Learn more about classes offered in CAL. Dean’s Welcome Message Here, in the College of Arts and Letters, your education in the liberal arts is our core value. Learning from our passionate faculty experts offers you a chance to consider some of the most profound questions facing humanity, including our very future on this planet; to solve some of society’s most pressing issues; and to discover a deeper understanding of yourself and your place in the world. Read Dean Casper's full message. Meet the CAL Community CAL Overall Outstanding Graduating Senior Ready to be Future Leader Geographer Receives NASA and USDA Grants Whitaker Receives PRRI Public Fellowship Award Stay Connected CAL Insight News Magazine A compendium of information about the College of Arts & Letters showcasing exceptional faculty, inspirational students and alumni, and compassionate donors who have contributed to the success of the college this year. Read CAL Insight. Quick Facts 37 MAJORS 44 MINORS 27 CERTIFICATE PROGRAMS 25 GRADUATE PROGRAMS College of Arts & Letters 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182-6060 AL 600 619-594-5431 [email protected] A-Z Index Maps Parking Strategic Plan Employment Media Relations Network Status WebPortal Give to CAL CAL Insight Magazine Join Our Email List Copyright © 2022 San Diego State University Requires SDSUid indicates links which require an SDSUid. Accessibility SDSU Digital Privacy Statement Document Reader Last Update: May 17, 2019 Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Last Updated May 16, 2022