Sign Up Log In Search Search Clemson Events › Event Details SC Adopt-a-Stream Freshwater High School Curriculum & Educator Training Course Join Clemson’s Center for Watershed Excellence and partners this summer for the SC Adopt-a-Stream Freshwater High School Curriculum and Educator Training course! The SC Adopt-a-Stream Freshwater High School Curriculum is a new offering based on powerful research showing that experiential science learning enables students to better connect theories and knowledge learned in the classroom to real-world applications. Through a combination of online and in-person training, the Educator’s Course will offer educators a foundation of watershed science, monitoring, and stewardship activities with resources and lessons to share their knowledge with students. Everyone will have the option to become freshwater and macroinvertebrate certified, but this is more than a certification course! Attendees will work through curriculum activities together and have an ArcGIS lesson to bring back to their students! In-person training will take place on June 27th and June 28th at Renewable Water Resource’s Water Discovery Lab in Greenville, SC. The registration deadline is June 6th and access to online modules will open on June 8th. This course and registration are FREE and open to all educators (pre-service teachers, in-service teachers, and non-formal environmental educators) who wish to learn more about the SC Adopt-a-Stream Freshwater High School Curriculum and its youth citizen science framework for water quality and ecosystem monitoring. Please click the “Registration” button to sign up! Please contact Haley Bird (bird3@clemson.edu) or Haley Parent (hparent@clemson.edu) with any questions. Monday, June 27 at 8:00am to 5:00pm More dates through June 28, 2022 Tuesday, June 28 at 8:00am to 5:00pm Renewable Water Resources (ReWa), Water Discovery Lab 564 Mauldin Rd, Greenville, SC 29607 Notice of Non-Discrimination Event Type Training and Development, Workshops Target Audience All Audiences Departments Centers and Institutes, Cooperative Extension Service, Water Resources, Carolina Clear, Center for Watershed Excellence, College of Education, Public Service Activities, Adopt A Stream, SC Water Resources Center Website http://www.scadoptastream.org Cost The course and registration are free. Participants are responsible for lodging if needed. Hashtag #SCAdoptAStream, SCAAS, citizenscience, environmentaleducation, watershededucation, ecosystemmonitoring, educators, environmentalscienceeducation Contact Name: Haley Bird Contact Phone: 864-688-9596 Contact Email: bird3@clemson.edu Notes: Please click on the "Register" button above to sign up! Subscribe Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Register Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested No activity yet Getting Here <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> You're not going yet! This event requires registration. Register Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2020 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson Login to Clemson University Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with Clemson ID Login with Facebook Login with Google Login with LinkedIn