The University of Kansas MENU THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Events Calendar myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search Search Places Events Groups Departments KU Events Calendar All Events Departments Places myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay Sign in Select to sign in THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Events Calendar Menu Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up The University of Kansas Friday, June 10 Strategies for Educational Improvement: Beyond the Pandemic Clear message Strategies for Educational Improvement: Beyond the Pandemic Friday, June 10, 2022 9am to 4:15am I'm Interested Buy Tickets Share Strategies for Educational Improvement: Beyond the Pandemic Share Strategies for Educational Improvement: Beyond the Pandemic on Facebook Share Strategies for Educational Improvement: Beyond the Pandemic on Twitter Share Strategies for Educational Improvement: Beyond the Pandemic on LinkedIn I'm Interested Buy Tickets About this Event Virtual Event Add to calendar Save to Google Calendar Save to iCal Save to Outlook Add to calendar The 2022 Virtual Summer Conference will be held on June 10, 2022 from 9:00 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. CT. Attendance is free but participants must register online. What have we learned that we can carry forward? What examples of resilience and innovation can we look to for inspiration? Come and hear star practitioners, administrators, and academic experts share innovative approaches to today’s challenges. You’ll learn from presenters with different perspectives, attend panels on specific topics throughout the day, and have opportunities for questions and discussion with speakers. Attendees are also invited to join a virtual brownbag lunchtime networking opportunity to visit with peers and exchange experiences. A detailed schedule will be posted soon. Check back for updates! Event Details Event Type Meetings & Conferences Target Audience Alumni, Faculty, Graduate Students, Staff Topic / Interest Innovation & Research Tags virtual summer conference Department Department of Curriculum and Teaching, Department of Education Leadership and Policy Studies, Department of Educational Psychology, Department of Health Sport and Exercise Sciences, Department of Special Education, School of Education and Human Sciences 2 people are interested in this event I'm Interested The University of Kansas Event Types Academic Ceremonies Community Engagement Concerts & Performances Galleries & Exhibitions Lectures & Presentations Meetings & Conferences Training & Professional Development Youth Programs Target Audience Alumni Community Faculty Graduate Students Prospective Students Staff Undergraduate Students Topic / Interest Arts & Culture Diversity & Inclusion Entertainment & Social Health & Wellness Innovation & Research International Affairs Leadership & Civic Engagement Science & Technology Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Benefits Services Time & Pay Contact Website Support Accessibility Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement © 2020 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents. The University of Kansas Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in Email Address Email Address is required. Password Password is required. or Log in with KU OnlineID Log in with Google Log in with Facebook Log in with Twitter Log in with LinkedIn I forgot my password I don't have an account yet