The University of Kansas MENU THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Events Calendar myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search Search Places Events Groups Departments KU Events Calendar All Events Departments Places myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay Sign in Select to sign in THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Events Calendar Menu Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up The University of Kansas Monday, June 6 [Osher] Fast Food Fifties Clear message [Osher] Fast Food Fifties Monday, June 6, 2022 2pm to 3:30pm Share [Osher] Fast Food Fifties Share [Osher] Fast Food Fifties on Facebook Share [Osher] Fast Food Fifties on Twitter Share [Osher] Fast Food Fifties on LinkedIn About this Event Virtual Event Add to calendar Save to Google Calendar Save to iCal Save to Outlook Add to calendar The 1950s were a decade marked by the post-World War II boom, the dawn of the Cold War and the Civil Rights movement in the United States. America was the world's strongest military power, its economy was booming, and the fruits of this prosperity were available to more people than ever, and created a widespread sense of stability, contentment, and consensus. And we witnessed poodle skirts, greasers, and some amazing food. Take a trip down memory lane with old recipes for 1950s food. These appetizers, main courses and desserts were popular back when a gallon of milk only cost $0.82. Event Details Event Type Community Engagement Target Audience Community Topic / Interest Entertainment & Social Website https://www.enrole.com/kupce/jsp/sess... Group KU Edwards Campus The University of Kansas Event Types Academic Ceremonies Community Engagement Concerts & Performances Galleries & Exhibitions Lectures & Presentations Meetings & Conferences Training & Professional Development Youth Programs Target Audience Alumni Community Faculty Graduate Students Prospective Students Staff Undergraduate Students Topic / Interest Arts & Culture Diversity & Inclusion Entertainment & Social Health & Wellness Innovation & Research International Affairs Leadership & Civic Engagement Science & Technology Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Benefits Services Time & Pay Contact Website Support Accessibility Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement © 2020 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents. The University of Kansas Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in Email Address Email Address is required. Password Password is required. or Log in with KU OnlineID Log in with Google Log in with Facebook Log in with Twitter Log in with LinkedIn I forgot my password I don't have an account yet