Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Search Search Log In University of Oregon Events › Event Details Anakú Iwachá: Yakama Legends and Stories Tuesday, May 31 at 2:00pm to 3:30pm Many Nations Longhouse 1630 Columbia Street, Eugene, OR Please join Virginia Beavert, Shayleen EagleSpeaker, Michelle Jacob, and Joana Jansen for a discussion of their new book Anakú Iwachá: Yakama Legends and Stories. Central to the Yakama oral tradition, storytelling enables Tribal Elders to share lessons, values, and customs with younger generations across the Columbia River plateau and the Pacific Northwest. Drawn from a time before the coming of human beings when animals were like people, the stories present characters and motifs that paint a bigger picture of the world as Yakama ancestors knew it. The original edition of Anakú Iwachá featured stories that Yakama Tribal Elders recorded in several dialects of the Ichishkíin language that were collected and translated into English by renowned linguist and scholar Virginia Beavert. This new edition adds a preface from the Yakama Nation and essays on the history of the project and on Ichishkíin-language education. It includes four additional legends in Ichishkíin and English, annotations, an updated glossary, and more artwork by Tribal artists, helping readers, teachers, and students engage with the legends as teaching and learning tools and as a precious gift to current and future Yakama generations. A book signing will follow the presentation. This is a hybrid event. Join us in person at the Many Nations Longhouse or over Zoom (meeting ID 971 8799 4068). Event Type Academic, Lectures & Presentations, Colloquium, Diversity and Multiculturalism, Native American, Listen.Learn.Act Departments College of Arts & Sciences, Indigenous, Race, and Ethnic Studies, Native American Studies, Office of the President, Many Nations Longhouse Target Audience All Students, Faculty/Staff, Graduate Students Subscribe Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested (2) This event content is powered by the Localist Community Event Platform. Login to University of Oregon Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with Duck ID