Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Login Submit an Event View my Events Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Events Calendar « All Events This event has passed. Conference of Accountants presented by The University of Tulsa May 12 @ 8:30 am - May 13 @ 4:30 pm Celebrating 75 years! The Conference of Accountants presented by The University of Tulsa will be held virtually May 12-13. An in-person social networking event will be announced prior to the conference, along with additional details about featured speakers. Early Bird Rate available through April 15: $295 for full conference or $175 for one day Proceeds from the conference are used to provide scholastic awards to promising undergraduate and graduate accounting students. Since 2004, the conference has awarded almost $330,000. Additionally, our attendees can earn up to 13 hours of CPE for CPA or other certification continuing education requirements. For more information, visit https://business.utulsa.edu/conference-of-accountants/ or contact Cristina Smith Williams at cristina@utulsa.edu. + Google Calendar+ Add to iCalendar Details Start: May 12 @ 8:30 am End: May 13 @ 4:30 pm Event Categories: College of Business, Lectures & Symposia, Virtual Event Event Tags: Business, spring 2022 Website: https://business.utulsa.edu/conference-of-accountants/ Organizer Collins College of Business Other Room/Location in Building Virtual « Softball: Tulsa vs. East Carolina Alumni Afternoon at the Tulsa Drillers » 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT