menu Your browser does not support JavaScript! Campus Calendar Submit an Event / Contact Us Today Upcoming Start date: Your browser does not support JavaScript! Search for events: apply filter Previous Events Search by Audience Alumni Faculty and Staff Open to Public Parents Prospective Students Students Search by Campus Unit + Colleges and Schools College of Agriculture and Natural Resources College of Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral and Social Sciences College of Computer, Mathematical and Natural Sciences College of Education College of Information Studies A. James Clark School of Engineering Office of Undergraduate Studies Philip Merrill College of Journalism Robert H. Smith School of Business School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation School of Public Health School of Public Policy The Graduate School + Offices Admissions Alumni Association Human Resources Office of Diversity and Inclusion Office of the President Office of the Provost Public Safety - UMPD Student Affairs The Clarice University Libraries Search by Category Academics Arts, Entertainment and Culture Athletics and Recreation Awards and Competitions Career Services Campus Bulletin Board Community Engagement Conferences and Symposiums Exhibitions Family-Friendly Fearless Ideas Campaign Free Health and Wellness Homecoming Diversity and Inclusion Multicultural Phillips Collection Research Sexual Assault Prevention and Awareness Speakers and Lectures Spiritual and Religious Student Life Workshops and Trainings Year of Immigration OPTIONS: Download Calendars Manage Events Submit an Event Contact Us Web Accessibility Privacy Notice Tuesday, May 31, 2022 Export/Subscribe Load more events Export / Subscribe Current Filters: Event feed or embeddable widget? Feed Widget (code to copy and paste onto a website) Data format? RSS JSON XML iCal - iCalendar (RFC5545, .ics) jCal - iCalendar JSON (RFC7265, .jcs) xCal - iCalendar XML (RFC6321, .xcs) CSV HTML list (copy & paste into Word, etc.) Include download link? True False Show details or summary? Details Summary Event count Total number of events returned: Time frame Default: pull events from "today" forward Limit to days from "today" Date Range: Start Date: End Date: Note: Event count takes precedence over date range! Widget Options Limit the number of events listed? True False (default: false) Limit to: events Show a title above event list? True False (default: true) Title: (default: "Upcoming Events") Highlight event dates or event titles? By title By date (default 'by title') Show description in listing? True False (default: false) Display end date in listing? True False (default: true) Display time in listing? True False (default: true) Display location in listing? True False (default: false) Your URL:URL Widget Code: