Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Login Submit an Event View my Events Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Events Calendar « All Events This event has passed. Luncheon with Chief Judge Sutton May 26 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm Free The University of Tulsa College of Law is pleased to host the Honorable Jeffrey S. Sutton, Chief Judge of the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, for a luncheon in the Price Turpen Courtroom. The luncheon is free and open to the public. Please RSVP to Rebecca Charbonneau at rebecca-charbonneau@utulsa.edu or call 918-631-2401. Chief Judge Sutton assumed the position of Chief Judge of the Sixth Circuit on May 1, 2021. He was nominated to the court by President George Walker Bush and confirmed by the United States Senate in April 2003. He earned his law degree from The Ohio State University College of Law in 1990 and subsequently clerked for the Honorable Thomas Meskill of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, as well as two Supreme Court Justices – the Honorable Lewis F. Powell, Jr., and the Honorable Antonin Scalia. Chief Judge Sutton was in private practice in Columbus from 1992 to 1995 and 1998 to 2003, and served as solicitor general of Ohio from 1995 to 1998. He has also served as an adjunct professor of law at the Ohio State University College of Law and as a visiting lecturer at Harvard Law School. Chief Judge Sutton has authored numerous books and articles on a wide variety of topics including state constitutional law and federalism. His recently published book is Who Decides? States as Laboratories of Constitutional Experimentation. Before his confirmation to the court, he argued twelve cases in the United States Supreme Court and numerous cases in the state supreme courts and the federal courts of appeal. He served as the chair of the Judicial Conference of the United States Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure from 2012 to 2016, and served as the chair of the Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules. In 2006, Judge Sutton was elected to the American Law Institute, and in 2017 he was elected to its Council. + Google Calendar+ Add to iCalendar Details Date: May 26 Time: 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm Cost: Free Event Category: College of Law Event Tags: law Website: https://www.fedbar.org/event/northern-eastern-oklahoma-chapter-luncheon-with-sixth-circuit-chief-judge-sutton/ Organizer College of Law Phone: 918-631-5850 Email: kyla-currie@utulsa.edu Website: https://law.utulsa.edu/ Other Room/Location in Building Price Turpen Courtroom Venue College of Law 3120 East 4th Place Tulsa, OK 74104 United States + Google Map Phone: 918-631-2401 « Reconciliation in America National Symposium Speaker – Michael Eric Dyson Memorial Day » 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT