Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services | Search Resources Email Blackboard Banner PiratePort PirateID Help Desk SabaMeeting OrgSync Work Request Directory Maps A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Events Calendar Log In Search Search East Carolina University Events › Event Details Postdoc Career and Professional Development Series Postdoc Career and Professional Development Series: Individual Development Plans with MyIDP May 25 and June 8, Noon Brody Building, 6E-77 The Office of Postdoctoral Affairs invites all postdocs to a career and professional development series centered around the AAAS MyIPD. Sessions are designed to help guide you through the exploration of potential career options, help narrow down career paths best suited to your skills and interests, teach you how to set strategic goals, and help you work towards those goals. Even if you feel your post-ECU career path is set, you are encouraged to attend the series for more information. Lunch will be provided. A virtual option will be available for those not located at the Greenville campus. Please contact Dr. DeWitt or Dr. Milton if you need the virtual option. Series Schedule: Intro to MyIDP, May 11 – Virtual office hour will be held from noon to 1 p.m. to answer any questions about individual development plans and the MyIDP process. This session will be Q&A driven and is intended to help you prepare for Session 1. Participants are highly encouraged to watch the videos linked below and create an account on the MyIDP website prior to attending the office hours. Prior to Session 1 – Fill out the skills, interests, and values assessment forms at https://myidp.sciencecareers.org/. Review your career fit results to see which career paths best match your assessment. Begin to gather information about the career options that most interest you through the “Read About Careers” tab. Session 1, May 25 – In this session, we will discuss the results of your myIDP assessment, talk about the diversity of career options, and prepare you to start gathering information about specific careers you are interested in through informational interviews. Prior to Session 2 – Conduct informational interviews to gather firsthand knowledge of career paths that interest you. Dr. DeWitt and Dr. Milton can help identify people to reach out to for interviews. Session 2, June 8 – In this session, we will discuss the informational interviews you conducted, empower you to set career goals, and reflect on the knowledge obtained through the myIDP process. Questions? Please contact Dr. DeWitt at dewittj@ecu.edu or Dr. Milton at miltonm19@ecu.edu. A channel to share resources and discuss the myIDP process has been created on the ECU Postdoc Teams page: link here MyIDP Resources The AAAS MyIDP website: https://myidp.sciencecareers.org/ Reason for doing MyIDP: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HJvD5i9DedA YouTube Tutorials https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rL7C1EojR0Q https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GFRhWVq4djI Wednesday, June 8 at 12:00pm Brody Building, 6E-77 Event Type Research Seminar Departments Research, Economic Development and Engagement, Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Hashtag #research Contact Name Morgan Milton Contact Email miltonm19@ecu.edu Subscribe Google Calendar iCal Outlook Individuals requesting accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) should contact the ADA Coordinator at least 48 hours prior to the event at (252) 737-1018 / ada-coordinator@ecu.edu. Livestream Contact: dewittj@ecu.edu or miltonm19@ecu.edu Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested No activity yet East Carolina University East 5th Street Greenville, NC 27858-4353 (252) 328-6131 | Contact Us © 2022 Terms of Use Accessibility Report a Barrier This event content is powered by the Localist Community Event Platform. Login to East Carolina University Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with School ID