Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up NC State University Calendar Saturday, June 18 Denver Alumni Network: Axe Throwing With the Pack Clear message Denver Alumni Network: Axe Throwing With the Pack Saturday, June 18, 2022 2 pm I'm Interested Buy Tickets Share Denver Alumni Network: Axe Throwing With the Pack Share Denver Alumni Network: Axe Throwing With the Pack on Facebook Share Denver Alumni Network: Axe Throwing With the Pack on Twitter Share Denver Alumni Network: Axe Throwing With the Pack on LinkedIn I'm Interested Buy Tickets About this Event Axe Whooping View map Add to calendar 437 N. Broadway, Denver, Colo. View map $15 per person, includes two hours of axe throwing. Add to calendar Spend an afternoon with the Denver Pack at Axe Whooping, the largest indoor axe-throwing facility in Colorado. Whether you're a viking incarnate or a newbie looking to hone your skills, Axe Whooping has some of the top axe throwers in the world that will help you channel your inner warrior and hit the bullseye in no time. Event Details Topic Social and Entertainment Cost $15 per person, includes two hours of axe throwing. Department Alumni Association EVENT COORDINATOR In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, NC State will honor requests for reasonable accommodations made by individuals with disabilities. Direct accommodation requests to: Alumni engagement at 919-515-0584 or alumni_engagement@ncsu.edu. 0 people are interested in this event I'm Interested Hide map Show map Public transport Car Walking <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> NC State University Calendar Event Types Academic Calendar Community Events Exhibitions Films Lectures and Talks Meetings and Conferences Performances Red and White Week Student Life Tours Workshops and Training Topic Arts and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Global Health and Wellness Scholarship and Research Service Social and Entertainment Student Recruitment and Admissions Sustainability Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan CAMPUS MAP © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. NC State University Calendar Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in or Log in with Unity ID I forgot my password I don't have an account yet