Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Login Submit an Event View my Events Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Events Calendar « All Events This event has passed. Cultural and Ancestral Geographies: A Symposium with Streams May 25 @ 8:45 am - 4:00 pm Free On May 25, 2022, the Helmerich Center for American Research will host a virtual symposium on Cultural and Ancestral Geographies from the ancestral lands of the Osage Nation. The symposium convenes scholars, educators, cultural workers, Tribal Historic Preservation Officers and Cultural Resource Managers for conversations on maps and mapmaking. While maps can function to support imperial expansion, settler colonialism and Indigenous dispossession, maps and mapping technologies can also protect ancestral knowledge, resist colonialism and defend Indigenous sovereignty. This virtual symposium takes Gilcrease Museum’s collection of maps from across the Americas as a jumping-off point. Over the long term, it aims to foster collaborative relationships across many areas of practice. Mishuana Goeman, Ph.D. (Tonawanda Band of Seneca, UCLA), and respondent Professor Norman Akers (Osage Nation, University of Kansas) will give a keynote address. Roundtable discussions will present highlights from ongoing conversations on the history of maps and mapmaking, Indigenous cartographies and the present-day stakes of mapmaking for Indigenous communities. These topics have been explored more fully in professional field or “stream” workshops occurring from January through May 2022. Stream leaders are Dr. Star Yellowfish, Ph.D. (Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians), Matt Reed (Pawnee Nation) and Deondre Smiles, Ph.D. (Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe, Settler, and Black). For more about this unique event, please visit https://gilcrease.org/helmerich-center/symposia/ This virtual symposium is free to the public. Registration is required: https://us02web.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_lm3KqozqTYarDZQGP5a8_A + Google Calendar+ Add to iCalendar Details Date: May 25 Time: 8:45 am - 4:00 pm Cost: Free Event Categories: Anthropology, Art, Diversity, Gilcrease, History, Lectures & Symposia, Virtual Event Website: https://gilcrease.org/cag-symposium/ Organizer Gilcrease Museum Phone: 918-596-2700 Other Room/Location in Building Online via Zoom « Thunder Fellows capstone projects and awards Reconciliation in America National Symposium Speaker – Michael Eric Dyson » 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT