Sign Up Log In Search Search Clemson Events › Cooperative Extension Events Google Calendar iCal Outlook RSS Cooperative Extension Events May 31 - June 29, 2022 Tuesday, May 31 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday, June 1 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested 2022 Annual Forestry Meeting The Growing Our Future – Annual Forestry Meeting has become a staple of the forest management community. Every year experts from various fields of study are... 7:30am T&S Farm Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Yoga for Every Body Yoga for Every Body is an all-levels, gentle yoga class designed to help you get more movement into your week. Modifications are offered to complement all... 12pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Know Diabetes By Heart Know Diabetes By Heart (KDBH), sponsored by the American Diabetes Association and American Heart Association, is a free, online education session. The... 1pm Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Thursday, June 2 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Initial Private Applicator Training The private pesticide applicator license is intended for agricultural producers who must purchase, use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides on... 9:30am Orangeburg County Clemson Extension Office, 200 Watch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Friday, June 3 2022 SC 4-H Summer Cook Off - Registration The Summer Cook Off is 5 separate contests within one: Poultry BBQ, Breads Demonstration, Breads Product, Dairy Foods, and Eggonomics. The event will be held... Camp Long Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Commercial Pesticide Applicator Exam Prep Course (Core and Category 3) This prep course is designed to help serve as a guide through the manuals to better help you prepare to take the commercial... 9:30am Clemson Extension Service - Spartanburg County Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Saturday, June 4 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Summer Garden Series Darlington County Extension Office presents the Summer Garden Series: A FREE hands on gardening program at the Darlington County Library's Community... 10am Darlington County Library Watch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Sunday, June 5 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Monday, June 6 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested SC Annie's Project Retreat Annie’s Project is a nationwide program that aims to empower women in agriculture through risk management education. We welcome anyone supporting the Annie’s... 6pm Holiday Inn Express & Suites Latta Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Tuesday, June 7 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Partnership Tax Course Online 8-credit hour seminar. Topics focus on tax law and key issues that tax professionals must know regarding partnership taxation. 8:15am Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Invasive Plant Management Workshop and Field Tour This workshop will provide landowners and forestry professionals information on invasive plants in South Carolina and methods for management. Trained... 8:30am Clemson Outdoor Lab Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested SC Annie's Project Retreat Annie’s Project is a nationwide program that aims to empower women in agriculture through risk management education. We welcome anyone supporting the Annie’s... 9am Holiday Inn Express & Suites Latta Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Vegetable Garden Pest Management Join us as Hort Agent Drew Jeffers goes through the management of common vegetable garden pests. Both insect and disease pests will be covered. Join... 12pm Clemson Extension Service - Spartanburg County Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday, June 8 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested SC Annie's Project Retreat Annie’s Project is a nationwide program that aims to empower women in agriculture through risk management education. We welcome anyone supporting the Annie’s... 9am Holiday Inn Express & Suites Latta Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Yoga for Every Body Yoga for Every Body is an all-levels, gentle yoga class designed to help you get more movement into your week. Modifications are offered to complement all... 12pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Managing Common Landscape Insect Pests Professional Landscape Managers are facing many challenges. This webinar will be going through some common insect pests and their management in ornamentals.... 1pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Thursday, June 9 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested SC Annie's Project Retreat Annie’s Project is a nationwide program that aims to empower women in agriculture through risk management education. We welcome anyone supporting the Annie’s... 9am Holiday Inn Express & Suites Latta Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested CAMM Continuing Education Training Topic: How much ammonia is really lost after applying poultry litter and how does it impact PAN? A continuing education training for maintaining... 10am SC Cotton Museum Watch ThisI'm Interested Introduction To Homesteading A workshop series focused on an introduction to producing food for your own consumption 10am Multiple Sites: See Flyer Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Have you checked your trees lately? Trees provide significant benefits to our homes and communities, but they may also become liabilities when they fall or break apart, causing property damage,... 12pm Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Friday, June 10 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested ServSafe Food Protection Manager Certification... The ServSafe® Food Protection Manager Certification Course: One day review course using ServSafe® materials from the National Restaurant Association... 8:30am Lexington County Extension Office Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested HED-Cooking A cooking support group for those that want healthy recipes, recipe swaps, and a little bit of knowledge! 12pm Anderson County Cooperative Extension , Kitchen Stream Available RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Saturday, June 11 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested SC Women Owning Woodlands Workshop SCWOW is coming to the Pee Dee! We are excited to announce that we will be hosting our full-day, in-person workshop in Williamsburg County on Saturday, June... 8:30am Cedar Swamp Community Center Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Sunday, June 12 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Monday, June 13 Cultivating Communities: Clemson Extension... Cultivating Communities is a six-week online program from Clemson Cooperative Extension to help new and beginning gardeners kick start their community garden... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Tuesday, June 14 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Bobwhite Quail Workshop (Walterboro, SC) Join biologists from SCDNR and Clemson Extension as they spend the day discussing and showcasing the management of the Bobwhite Quail. Participants will... 9am Colleton County Museum and Farmer's Market Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested CAMM Continuing Education Training Topic: Compost versus Litter: How to decide which is best based on plant needs and cost. A continuing education training for maintaining certification in... 10am Marlboro County Extension Office Watch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Nuisance Wildlife Pest Management Got critters? Tired of trying things that don’t work? Join us to get some scientific, fact-based information on how to control unwanted wildlife... 12pm Clemson Extension Service - Spartanburg County Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested 2022 School Gardening Summer Series:... How do we engage every student, including those with special needs, in garden education? Join Dilafruz Williams, Ph. D. as she shares some of the promising... 1pm Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday, June 15 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Summer Garden Series Darlington County Extension Office presents the Summer Garden Series: A FREE hands on gardening program at the Darlington County Library's Community... 10am Darlington County Library Watch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Yoga for Every Body Yoga for Every Body is an all-levels, gentle yoga class designed to help you get more movement into your week. Modifications are offered to complement all... 12pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested CAMM Continuing Education Training Topic: How much ammonia is really lost after applying poultry litter and how does it impact PAN? A continuing education training for maintaining... 6:30pm Newberry Farm Bureau Watch ThisI'm Interested Thursday, June 16 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Know Diabetes By Heart Know Diabetes By Heart (KDBH), sponsored by the American Diabetes Association and American Heart Association, is a free, online education session. The... 11am Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Build a Rain Barrel Workshop Want to build your own rainbarrel? Clemson Extension is having a Build A Rainbarrel Class. Class Includes: - Educational segment on stormwater and... 2pm Clemson Extension Service - Spartanburg County Watch ThisI'm Interested CAMM Continuing Education Training Topic: Crop Utilization of Manure Nutrients and Soil Fertility. A continuing education training for maintaining certification in the Confined Animal Manure... 6pm Edisto Research and Education Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Friday, June 17 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Saturday, June 18 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Sunday, June 19 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested 4-H Pinckney Leadership Conference Do you know a high school student leader looking for summer leadership opportunities? Have them join us at the 2022 4-H Pinckney Leadership Program... 2pm Watch ThisI'm Interested Monday, June 20 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested School Gardening for SC Educators School Gardening for SC Educators is a self-paced, online course developed by Clemson Extension. Participants will learn the basic horticulture skills... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Health Extension for Diabetes - Greenville County Health Extension for Diabetes is a free diabetes support program recognized by the American Diabetes Association as a practice-tested diabetes support... 10am TBD Stream Available RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Tuesday, June 21 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday, June 22 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Initial Private Pesticide Applicator Training... Private applicator licenses are intended for agricultural producers who must purchase, use, or supervise the use of restricted-use pesticides on their... 9am Greenwood County Extension Office Watch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Yoga for Every Body Yoga for Every Body is an all-levels, gentle yoga class designed to help you get more movement into your week. Modifications are offered to complement all... 12pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested CAMM Continuing Education Training Topic: Getting Producers Ready for Emergency Disease Outbreaks (Avian Influenza, African Swine Fever, Foot & Mouth Disease). A continuing education training... 1:30pm Lexington County Extension Office Watch ThisI'm Interested Health Extension for Diabetes - Greenville County Health Extension for Diabetes is a free diabetes support program recognized by the American Diabetes Association as a practice-tested diabetes support... 2pm TBD RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Thursday, June 23 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested CAMM Continuing Education Training Topics: Record Keeping and Manure Spreader Calibration Methods. A continuing education training for maintaining certification in the Confined Animal Manure... 10am Clarendon County Extension Office Watch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Build a Rain Barrel Workshop Want to build your own rainbarrel? Clemson Extension is having a Build A Rainbarrel Class. Class Includes: - Educational segment on stormwater and... 2pm Clemson Extension Service - Spartanburg County Watch ThisI'm Interested CAMM Continuing Education Training Topic: How much ammonia is really lost after applying poultry litter and how does it impact PAN? A continuing education training for maintaining... 6:30pm Chester Market Building Watch ThisI'm Interested Friday, June 24 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Saturday, June 25 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Sunday, June 26 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Monday, June 27 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Wet & Wild 4H2O Camp Session I (ages 6-8) Greenville Wet & Wild Camp is a week-long science education camp focusing on the natural world around us! From waterfalls to wildlife, campers will... 8am Conestee Park Watch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Kids Cooking Like a Chef 4-H Summer Day Camp Culinary Camp for youth ages 9-13. 2022 Theme - "Tasting Our Way Through the USA". 12pm Centenary United Methodist Church , Fellowship Hall / Kitchen Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Know Diabetes By Heart Know Diabetes By Heart (KDBH), sponsored by the American Diabetes Association and American Heart Association, is a free, online education session. The... 3:30pm Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Tuesday, June 28 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Wet & Wild 4H2O Camp Session I (ages 6-8) Greenville Wet & Wild Camp is a week-long science education camp focusing on the natural world around us! From waterfalls to wildlife, campers will... 8am Conestee Park Watch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Kids Cooking Like a Chef 4-H Summer Day Camp Culinary Camp for youth ages 9-13. 2022 Theme - "Tasting Our Way Through the USA". 12pm Centenary United Methodist Church , Fellowship Hall / Kitchen Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested CAMM Continuing Education Training Topic: Crop Utilization of Manure Nutrients and Soil Fertility. A continuing education training for maintaining certification in the Confined Animal Manure... 6pm Orangeburg County Extension Office Watch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday, June 29 Dealing with Drainage (On-Demand Course) Got drainage issues? Come get some ideas on how to properly deal with stormwater and drainage problems in your yard! Topics include: stormwater... Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Right Of Way Pest Control (Category 6) Exam Prep and Recertification Course On-Demand Webinar Are you planning on taking the Right of Way (Category 6) Pesticide License... Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Wet & Wild 4H2O Camp Session I (ages 6-8) Greenville Wet & Wild Camp is a week-long science education camp focusing on the natural world around us! From waterfalls to wildlife, campers will... 8am Conestee Park Watch ThisI'm Interested New Extension Agent Onboarding This is a new Extension agent introductory training to give an overview of Extension. 10am South Carolina Botanical Garden, Hayden Conference Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Aquatic Weed Identification and Management Learn how to identify and manage aquatic weeds. Topics covered include: Identification Prevention with cultural controls Mechanical removal ... 12pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Kids Cooking Like a Chef 4-H Summer Day Camp Culinary Camp for youth ages 9-13. 2022 Theme - "Tasting Our Way Through the USA". 12pm Centenary United Methodist Church , Fellowship Hall / Kitchen Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Yoga for Every Body Yoga for Every Body is an all-levels, gentle yoga class designed to help you get more movement into your week. Modifications are offered to complement all... 12pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Remote PSA Produce Safety Rule Grower Training **Please note that this is a two-day course, June 29 and 30, 2022 from 1:00 pm to 5:30 pm EDT** Who Should Attend: Fruit and vegetable growers and... 1pm Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested CAMM Continuing Education Training Topic: Horse Manure Issues and Management. A continuing education training for maintaining certification in the Confined Animal Manure Management (CAMM)... 3pm Aiken County Extension Office Watch ThisI'm Interested May 31 - June 29, 2022 Submit an Event All Events Places to Go Departments Switch to April 2022 Switch to June 2022 May Calendar Date Navigation S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 View This Month View by Day Week Month Next 30 Days Sort by Date Name Popularity Hide Recurring Events Experience All Experiences In-Person Virtual Type All Types Cooperative Extension (43) Academic Calendar (35) › Summer Mini B (11) › First Summer (7) › Summer Semester (5) › Summer Mini A (4) › Summer Mini C (4) › Second Summer (3) › Fall Mini A (0) › Fall Mini B (0) › Fall Mini C (0) › Fall Mini D (0) › Fall Semester (0) › First Fall (0) › First Spring (0) › Second Fall (0) › Second Spring (0) › Spring Mini A (0) › Spring Mini B (0) › Spring Mini C (0) › Spring Mini D (0) › Spring Semester (0) › Summer Mini D (0) Expand Workshops (23) Lectures / Seminars / Speakers (12) Disruptions and Outages (11) Special Events (7) Training and Development (7) South Carolina Botanical Garden (6) General (5) Seminars (5) Arts/Entertainment (0) › CVA (0) › CVA-Greenville (0) › Galleries & Showcases (0) › Lee Gallery (0) › Special Events/Art Sales (0) › Visiting Artists/Guest Lectures (0) Expand › Exhibits (0) › Music (0) › Theatre (0) Athletics (0) Collabfest (0) › Art Track (0) › Digital Track (0) › Film Track (0) › Food Track (0) Conference / Forum / Symposium (0) Diversity and Inclusion (0) Humanities Hub (0) International/Multicultural (0) LGBTQ+ (0) Recycling (0) University Holidays and Closures (0) Show More Target Audience All Target Audiences All Audiences (23) General Public (18) Staff (2) Faculty (1) Alumni (0) Parents/Guests (0) Postdocs (0) Students (0) › Graduate (0) › Undergraduate (0) Show More Department All Departments Cooperative Extension Service (41) › Statewide (15) › Livestock and Forages (10) › Confined Animal Manure Management (CAMM) (9) › Spartanburg (7) › Aiken (6) › Orangeburg (6) › Lexington (5) › Pesticide Training (5) › Barnwell (4) › Calhoun (4) › Forestry and Wildlife Resources (4) › Horticulture (4) › Agribusiness (3) › Bamberg (3) › Berkeley (3) › Darlington (3) › Florence (3) › Greenville (3) › Saluda (3) › 4-H Savannah Valley (2) › 4-H Upstate (2) › 4-H Youth Development (2) › Chesterfield (2) › Dillon (2) › Dorchester (2) › Fairfield (2) › Food Systems and Safety (2) › Greenwood (2) › Master Gardener (2) › Newberry (2) › Richland (2) › Rural Health and Nutrition (2) › School Gardening for SC Educators (2) › Sumter (2) › Union (2) › 4-H Midlands (1) › 4-H Pee Dee (1) › Abbeville (1) › Allendale (1) › Anderson (1) › Cherokee (1) › Chester (1) › Clarendon (1) › Colleton (1) › Consumer Horticulture (1) › Division of Assessment and Scholarship (1) › Edgefield (1) › Kershaw (1) › Lancaster (1) › Laurens (1) › Lee (1) › Marlboro (1) › McCormick (1) › Oconee (1) › Pickens (1) › SC Women's Agricultural Network (1) › ServSafe® (1) › Williamsburg (1) › York (1) › 4-H2O (0) › Agricultural Education (0) › Agronomy (0) › Beaufort (0) › Bull Test (0) › Carolina Yards (0) › Charleston (0) › Georgetown (0) › Hampton (0) › Horry (0) › Horses (0) › Jasper (0) › Marion (0) › New and Beginning Farmer (0) › Pond Management (0) › SC Agricultural Education (0) › Water Resources (0) Expand College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences (4) › Agricultural and Environmental Sciences (1) › Forestry and Environmental Conservation (1) › Agricultural Sciences (0) › Animal and Veterinary Sciences (0) › Ecology (0) › Entomology (0) › Food, Nutrition, and Packaging Sciences (0) › Plant and Environmental Sciences (0) › Student Services (0) Expand .edu (1) Centers and Institutes (1) › Baruch Forest Science Institute (1) › Animal Co-Products Research and Education Center - ACREC (0) › Applied Ecology (0) › Biomedical Science and Engineering (0) › Center for China Studies (0) › Center for Corporate Learning (formerly PACE) (0) › Center for Geospatial Technologies (CCGT) (0) › Center for Human Genetics (0) › Center for Watershed Excellence (0) › Charles H. Houston Center (0) › chgweb (0) › Coastal Research and Education Center (0) › Conservation Center (0) › cugbfweb (0) › Edisto Research and Education Center (0) › Electronic and Digital Publishing - CEDP (0) › Environmental Studies (0) › Environmental Toxicology Institute (0) › Equine Center (0) › Erwin Center for Brand Communications (0) › Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center (EPIC) (0) › Gantt Center (0) › Genetics and Bioinformatics Facility (0) › Institute for Human Factors and Ergonomics (0) › International Center for Automotive Research - CU ICAR (0) › James C. Kennedy Waterfowl & Wetlands Conservation Center (0) › National Institute for Parks (0) › Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (0) › Outdoor Lab (0) › Pearce Center for Professional Communication (0) › Pee Dee Research and Education Center (0) › Research on Health Disparities (0) › Restoration Institute - CURI (0) › Rutland Institute for Ethics (0) › Sandhill Research and Education Center (0) › SC Water Resources Center (0) › Simpson Research and Education Center (0) › Small Business Development Center (SBDC) (0) › Sonoco Institute of Packaging Design and Graphics (0) › South Carolina Educational Interpreting Center (0) › Spiro Institute for Entrepreneurial Leadership (0) › Strom Thurmond Institute (0) › Student Involvement (0) › Study of Capitalism (0) › Sustainability Education (0) › Sustainable Mobility Institute (0) › University Center (0) › Watt Family Innovation Center (0) › Wood Utilization + Design Institute (0) › Youth Learning Institute (0) Expand Public Service Activities (1) › Adopt A Stream (0) › Livestock Poultry Health (0) › Sustainable Agriculture (0) Academic Success Center (ASC) (0) Accessibility (0) Admissions (0) Alumni Relations (0) Athletics (0) Campus Life (0) › Bookstore (0) › TigerOne (0) Carolina Clear (0) › Anderson & Pickens Counties Stormwater Partners (0) › Ashley Cooper SEC (0) › Coastal Waccamaw SEC (0) › Florence Darlington SC (0) › Lowcountry Stormwater Partners (0) › Richland Countywide SC (0) › Sumter Stormwater Solutions (0) Expand CCIT (0) Center for Career and Professional Development (0) Clemson Online (0) Clemson University Honors College (0) College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities (0) › Architecture (0) › Art (0) › Brooks Center for the Performing Arts (0) › CAAH Research (0) › Center for Visual Arts - CVA (0) › Lee Gallery (0) › City and Regional Planning (0) › Construction Science and Management (0) › English (0) › Writing Lab (0) › Historic Preservation (0) › History (0) › Landscape Architecture (0) › Languages (0) › Master of Real Estate Development (MRED) (0) › Pan African Studies (0) › Performing Arts (0) › Philosophy and Religion (0) › Women’s Leadership (0) › World Cinema (0) Expand College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences (0) › CBSHS Research Support Center (0) › Communication (0) › Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (0) › Political Science (0) › Psychology (0) › Public Health Sciences (0) › School of Nursing (0) › Sociology and Anthropology (0) › Youth, Family and Community Studies (0) Expand College of Education (0) › Education and Human Development (0) › Educational and Organizational Leadership Development (0) › Eugene T. Moore School of Education (0) College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences (0) › Automotive Engineering (0) › Bioengineering (0) › Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering (0) › Civil Engineering (0) › Electrical and Computer Engineering (0) › Engineering and Science Education (0) › Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences (0) › General Engineering (0) › Industrial Engineering (0) › Materials Science and Engineering (0) › Mechanical Engineering (0) › PEER/WISE (0) › Research Seminars (0) › School of Computing (0) Expand College of Science (0) › Biological Sciences (0) › Chemistry (0) › Genetics and Biochemistry (0) › Mathematical Sciences (0) › Physics and Astronomy (0) Expand Division of Research (0) Emeritus College (0) Endowed Chairs and Titled Professors (0) Experience Clemson (0) Facilities (0) › Disruptions (0) › Recycling (0) Faculty Senate (0) Finance and Operations (0) › LEAN (0) Giving (0) Graduate School (0) › GRAD360° (0) › Masters in Data Analytics (0) Historic Properties (0) › Fort Hill (0) › Hanover House (0) Human Resources (0) Inclusion and Equity (0) › Access & Equity (0) › College Preparation and Outreach (0) Libraries (0) › Adobe Digital Studio (0) › Scholars’ Lab (0) Office of Global Engagement (0) Office of Provost (0) › TIGERSADVANCE (0) Office of Research Development (0) Office of Teaching Effectiveness and Innovation (OTEI) (0) Office of the President (0) PreHealth (0) Registration Services (0) Research (0) › Data and Analytics (0) › Office of Research Compliance (0) ROTC (0) SC Botanical Garden (0) › Children's classes (0) › SCNP certificate classes (0) Staff Development Program (0) Staff Senate (0) Student Accessibility Services (0) Student Affairs (0) › Campus Activities and Events (0) › Campus Recreation (0) › Healthy Campus (0) › Law Enforcement and Safety (0) › New Student and Family Programs (0) › Office of Advocacy and Success (0) › Parking Services (0) › Redfern Student Health Center (0) › Student Organizations (0) › University Housing (0) Expand Student Engagement (0) Study Abroad (0) Summer Camps and Conferences (0) Summer Programs and Outreach (0) T. Ed Garrison Arena (0) Undergraduate Student Government (0) Undergraduate Studies (0) University Commissions (0) › Accessibility Commission (0) › Commission on Black Faculty and Staff (0) › Commission on Latino Affairs (0) › Commission on Women (0) › LGBTQ Commission (0) › Veterans Commission (0) Expand University Homepage (0) University Relations (0) Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business (0) › Accounting (0) › Advising Center (0) › Aerospace Studies (0) › College of Business Development (0) › Economics (0) › Finance (0) › Graphic Communications (0) › Management (0) › Marketing (0) › MBA (0) › Stewardship (0) Expand Woodland Cemetery (0) Show More Center / Institute All Center / Institutes Academic Success Center (0) Clemson Sonoco FRESH Initiative (0) Subscribe to These Results Google Calendar Apple iCal Outlook RSS Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2020 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson Login to Clemson University Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with Clemson ID Login with Facebook Login with Google Login with LinkedIn