Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Login Submit an Event View my Events Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Events Calendar « All Events This event has passed. Alumni Afternoon at the Tulsa Drillers May 15 @ 12:00 pm - 4:00 pm $33 Join the Tulsa Chapter for an afternoon at the Tulsa Drillers and welcome the new graduates to the Alumni Association. Friends and family are welcome to join the fun on the Busch Deck! Alumni Afternoon at the Drillers Sunday, May 15 Gates Open 12 p.m. First Pitch 1:05 p.m. Busch Deck ONEOK Field 201 N. Elgin Ave. Tulsa, OK The Busch Deck has plenty of seating, so bring your family and enjoy the game! Children ages three and under do not need a ticket for entry assuming they will be sitting on a parent/guardian’s lap. A buffet lunch including hot dogs, hamburgers, brats, baked beans, pasta salad, watermelon and assorted cookies will be served from 12 to 2 p.m., so come hungry! A card-only bar will also be available. Click here to register! Tickets will be sent digitally via email closer to the event date. Your ticket includes a $5 donation to the TU Alumni Association Scholarship Fund. Thank you for your support! Let your friends know you’ll be there on Facebook! + Google Calendar+ Add to iCalendar Details Date: May 15 Time: 12:00 pm - 4:00 pm Cost: $33 Event Categories: Alumni, Social Gathering Website: https://www.tualumni.com/s/1174/bp20/wide.aspx?sid=1174&gid=1&pgid=5846&content_id=5568 Organizer TU Alumni Association Phone: 918-631-2555 Email: tualumni@utulsa.edu Website: TUAlumni.com Venue ONEOK Field 201 N Elgin Ave Tulsa, OK 74120 United States + Google Map Website: https://www.milb.com/tulsa/ballpark/oneok-field « Conference of Accountants presented by The University of Tulsa Mapping Historical Trauma in Tulsa from 1921-2021 – Application Deadline » 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT