Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Events Calendar Webmail Search FSU Navigation FSU Sites Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Events Calendar Log in Search Search Florida State University Calendar › Event Details Florida Virtual Statewide Job Fair Jump-start your job search at the Virtual Statewide Job Fair on June 2, 2022! This is an exclusive recruitment event open only to students and alumni from Florida's 12 public universities. This is an excellent opportunity to meet employers recruiting students and alumni for full-time and part-time professional positions. To speak with employers that interest you, you must register for those specific employers' appointments. Employers have entered times that they are going to be available, and then you find and sign up for appointments that you’re interested in. Student Access to Appointments Begin May 1st at 8 a.m. EST. To speak with employers that interest you, you must register for those specific employers’ appointments. Employers have entered times that they are going to be available, and it is up to the candidates to find and sign up for appointments that they are interested in. Dial-In Information More info and registration: https://floridacareercenters.org/statewide-job-fair-students/ Thursday, June 2 at 9:00am to 4:00pm Virtual Event Event Type General Tags Career, virtualFSU, networking, job fair, internships, jobs, Career Fair, Featured Events, UCFeatured Website https://floridacareercenters.org/stat... Department Career Center, Division of Student Affairs Hashtag #DesignYourCareer Contact Name: Heather Scarboro Contact Phone (850) 644-6493 Contact Email hscarboro@fsu.edu Subscribe Google Calendar iCal Outlook Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested (22) View all people interested... Request a calendar © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Powered by the Localist Community Events Calendar © Log in to Florida State University Calendar Log in with FSUID