Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Calendar Help Calendar Submit Event Calendar Help Spud Gallery Webnames Editor Access About the Calendar The OSU Calendar runs on the Trumba Connect platform and provides students, employees and the community and opportunity to view and subscribe to event information. It is OSU’s primary location for finding information on campus events. A few things to note about the calendar: It has many marketing functions including the ability to subscribe to emails or push notifications for events Easily add events to your personal digital calendar Events have the ability to have an image and more event details Event locations link to OSU’s interactive map FAQ Using the Calendar How do I find events? You can use the filters in the sidebar to narrow down events to categories you are interested in. You can also use the search to filter the calendar by keyword. How do I add an event to my calendar? Click Add to Calendar at the bottom of an event's details page and select the appropriate calendar type to add the event to your personal digital calendar. You can also elect to connect your O-Key, Facebook or Google account to the calendar to: Save your own personalized list of events of interest that you find on website calendars Store personal information and preferences, such as your account time zone Manage reminders and event update notifications for saved event Track and manage calendar event submissions How do I create a direct link to an event's detail page? At the bottom of the event's details page click Event Link to get a permalink that can be shared with others. Note: Copying the URL from the browser's address bar will not give you a link to an event's details page. Submitting Events How do I submit an event? Use the submit event form to create an event on the OSU Calendar. Note: not currently supported by Safari. Please use Firefox, Chrome or Edge. Any user with an O-Key account may submit events to the calendar. The events will be moderated and approved by the administrator team in a timely manner. What type of image should I submit with my event? Images submitted to the calendar should follow these guidelines: The recommended image size is 1024x512 px Maximum File Size 1MB Allowable file types: BMP, JPEG, GIF, TIFF, and PNG Images should be appropriate in content and relevant to the event Images must follow terms of service. Which calendar do I select when submitting events? Events should be placed on the calendar for the department or area sponsoring the event. These events will display both on the department calendar and the main campus calendar. How do I request a new calendar/sponsor? If you would like to request a calendar for your department, please contact Brand Management at calendar@okstate.edu to request a calendar set up for your area. What if I can't find my building? Building lists are imported from facilities management and will be periodically updated. If a campus building is missing from the building list, please contact Brand Management at calendar@okstate.edu How do I update an event after it has been submitted? If the event has not been approved you may withdraw the event from the calendar using the link in your confirmation email. This will remove it from the approval queue. A new event can then be created using the event submission form. Once events are approved, they are no longer editable through the event submission form. Do not submit duplicate events. Please contact the calendar owner for changes to events after they have been approved. Main Calendar Administrator: Brand Management- calendar@okstate.edu Ferguson College of Agriculture: calendar.dasnr@okstate.edu Arts and Sciences: Jacob Longan- jacob.longan@okstate.edu Center for Veterinary Health Sciences: Kaylie Wehr - kaylie.wehr@okstate.edu Department of Wellness: Mikey Neeley- mikey.neeley@okstate.edu Education and Human Sciences: Christy Lang - christy.lang@okstate.edu Engineering, Architecture and Technology: Kristi Wheeler- kristi.wheeler@okstate.edu OSU Extension: calendar.oces@okstate.edu Research: vpr@okstate.edu School of Global Studies and Partnerships: sgsp@okstate.edu Spears School of Business: ssb.news@okstate.edu Student Union: Debbie Shotwell - debbie.shotwell@okstate.edu Calendar Administration How do I request access to the calendar? If you only need to submit events, please use the event submission form. See the submitting events section of the FAQ for more information. If you need access to edit and approve events on the calendar, an editor license will need to be purchased. Please contact Brand Management at calendar@okstate.edu for additional details. How do I request a new calendar or sponsor? If you would like to request a calendar for your department, please contact Brand Management at calendar@okstate.edu to request a calendar set up for your area. How do I cancel/delete an event? You have three options for getting rid of events on your calendar: you can delete, remove, or cancel them. See more: Delete, Remove and Cancel Events How do I approve a submitted event? Events created via the event submission form are placed on a subcalendar called "Events to be approved". In order for these events to show on the calendar, you must move them from the Events to be approved calendar to your published calendar. See more: Best practices for approving submitted events How do I add a map link (off-campus event)? To add a map link, enter an address in the location field or use the 'Enter Latitude/Longitude' feature after getting your building coordinates from a google map. Click add map link. Once the map link has been added, remove the text from the location box if this is an on-campus event. TIPS: Always test the map link before saving your event to ensure accuracy. See more: Add map links to event Development and Integration What are spuds? Spuds are preconfigured widgets that you can use to display calendars on your department site. There are three types of spuds: calendar spuds, promotion spuds and control spuds. Calendar spuds display your main calendar on your website. These can be a detailed list view of upcoming events, a simple table-style view, or a more traditional calendar month view. Control spuds are generally used in conjunction with a calendar spud. same page as your main calendar spud. Visitors interact with control spuds to change the state of the main calendar spud. For example, you can add control spuds that let visitors change the view, filter the events they see, and search by keyword or location. Promotion spuds help you increase visibility for your calendar and events across your website. These can be used on pages that do not contain your main calendar. For example a short list of upcoming events on the front page of your website. See More: Embed Spud Code Spud FAQ Control and promotion spuds Which spuds are available? We have preconfigured several spuds for you to use on your website. To see which spuds have been enabled and get code for embedding in your site, please visit the spud gallery. You will need to know your calendar's webname to embed spuds in your website. Note: only spuds which are compatible with OSU's theme and meet accessibility guidelines will be available. How do I find my calendar's webname? Webnames for published calendars What feed options are available for published calendars? Each calendar includes an iCal, RSS, Atom and CSV feed. You will need to know your calendar's webname to access the RSS feed. Feed URL's: iCal - https://www.trumba.com/calendars/[calendar-webname].ics RSS - https://www.trumba.com/calendars/[calendar-webname].rss Atom - https://www.trumba.com/calendars/[calendar-webname].xml CSV - https://www.trumba.com/calendars/[calendar-webname].csv Replace [calendar-webname] with your calendar's webname Can my calendar be integrated with digital signage? You can promote your current day's or week's events on-site by customizing promotion spuds to create effective digital signage displays. See more: Digital Signage Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©