Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up NC State University Calendar Tuesday, June 14 Friends of the Libraries D.H. Hill Library Tour Clear message Friends of the Libraries D.H. Hill Library Tour Tuesday, June 14, 2022 5:30 pm to 7:30 pm I'm Interested Register Share Friends of the Libraries D.H. Hill Library Tour Share Friends of the Libraries D.H. Hill Library Tour on Facebook Share Friends of the Libraries D.H. Hill Library Tour on Twitter Share Friends of the Libraries D.H. Hill Library Tour on LinkedIn I'm Interested Register About this Event DH Hill Jr. Library View map Add to calendar 2 Broughton Dr., Raleigh, NC 27695 https://www.lib.ncsu.edu/events/friends-libraries-dh-hill-library-tour View map Add to calendar If you haven't visited the D.H. Hill Library in a while, you are in for a treat. Friends of the Libraries members and their families can go an in-person tour of the library and experience its newly renovated spaces. The tour will also include hands-on activities and complimentary refreshments. To go on the tour, you must be a member of Friends of the Libraries or a relative of a member, and complete the registration form by May 31. We will send more detailed information about the tour to registrants. If you not a member Friends of the Libraries but would like to join, visit the group's membership page. New members can go on the tour. NC State students can join for free. We hope you can join us for a fun summertime evening at the library. Event Details Event Type Tours Website https://www.lib.ncsu.edu/events/frien... Department Centennial Campus, NC State University Libraries EVENT COORDINATOR In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, NC State will honor requests for reasonable accommodations made by individuals with disabilities. Direct accommodation requests to: Friends of the Libraries at libraries_friends@ncsu.edu or 919.515.2841. 0 people are interested in this event I'm Interested Hide map Show map Public transport Car Walking <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> NC State University Calendar Event Types Academic Calendar Community Events Exhibitions Films Lectures and Talks Meetings and Conferences Performances Red and White Week Student Life Tours Workshops and Training Topic Arts and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Global Health and Wellness Scholarship and Research Service Social and Entertainment Student Recruitment and Admissions Sustainability Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan CAMPUS MAP © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. NC State University Calendar Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in or Log in with Unity ID I forgot my password I don't have an account yet