Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services | Search Resources Email Blackboard Banner PiratePort PirateID Help Desk SabaMeeting OrgSync Work Request Directory Maps A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Events Calendar Log In Search Search East Carolina University Events › Event Details Intraoral Radiography Certificate Program (Part 1 of 2) - Online Course Course Description This Continuing Professional Education course is designed for individuals who meet one of the following criteria and are needing dental radiography certification: 1. Currently working in a dental office 2. New to NC whose former state's requirement does not meet NC requirements (may or may not be employed) 3. Students who have applied to dental school and/or have plans to work in a dental office before entering dental school This program has been approved by the North Carolina State Dental Board Examiners (NCSDBE) pursuant to G.S. 90-29(c) (12). The Intraoral Radiography Certificate Course consists of two components; Part 1 is an online self-study designed to teach the fundamentals of x-ray production, safety and protection. Part 2 is a hands-on clinical component designed to teach receptor placement and exposure techniques needed for successful dental imaging. Both Part 1 and Part 2 must be successfully completed prior to receiving certification in Dental Radiography. Registration Fees Part 1 - $270.00 After the successful completion of Part 1, participants can register for Part 2. Objectives Part 1 requires the learner to complete eight instructional modules, three videos on intraoral receptor placement and the final exam with a minimum score of 70%. This portion constitutes 22 hours of instruction. Note: Registration for the Part 2 Clinical cannot occur until all online material and final exam has been completed. Each session starts on the 6th of each month and ends on the last day of the month. Each session registration deadline is the last day of the month for the following month. Dial-In Information This course will be offered through the Canvas Learning System. Registrants should look for an email from CPE during the week the course starts which will include login instructions and a link to the Canvas online classroom. Monday, June 6 at 8:00am Virtual Event Departments Office of Continuing Studies, Continuing Professional Education Website https://www.enrole.com/ecu/jsp/course... Contact Name Continuing Professional Education Contact Phone Number 252-328-9198 Contact Email cpe@ecu.edu Registration Website https://www.enrole.com/ecu/jsp/course.jsp?categoryId=10104&courseId=DMXRAY Subscribe Google Calendar iCal Outlook Individuals requesting accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) should contact the ADA Coordinator at least 48 hours prior to the event at (252) 737-1018 / ada-coordinator@ecu.edu. Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested No activity yet East Carolina University East 5th Street Greenville, NC 27858-4353 (252) 328-6131 | Contact Us © 2022 Terms of Use Accessibility Report a Barrier This event content is powered by the Localist Community Event Platform. Login to East Carolina University Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with School ID