Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Login Submit an Event View my Events Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Events Calendar Events for May 3, 2022 Events Search and Views Navigation Show Events Search Events Search Day Of Search Event Views Navigation View As ListMonthDay Narrow Your Results Collapse Filters Show Filters Reset Filters Notice: Utilizing the form controls will dynamically update the content Event Category Venues Organizers Day Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Collapse Filters Show Filters Reset Filters « Previous Day Next Day » All Day National CanArchitecture Competition May 2 - May 3 Allen Chapman Student Union, 440 S Gary Ave Tulsa, OK 74104 United States + Google Map Free CanArchitecture is a way for TU students to use their creativity to help fight food insecurity on campus and in our community. Students will design a creative structure out of non-perishable food items and then submit a photo to the national competition for a chance to win $1000. The $1000 prize will support the TU […] Find out more » Final Exams May 3 |Recurring Event (See all) An event every day that begins at 12:00 am, repeating until May 5, 2022 Final Exams - April 28-29 and May 2-5 Find out more » 7:30 pm TU Opera presents Divas, Divas, Divas! May 3 @ 7:30 pm - 9:00 pm Lorton Performance Center, 550 South Gary Place Tulsa, OK 74104 United States + Google Map Free The TU Opera Theatre presents Divas, Divas, Divas! This concert will feature performances of The Impresario by W.A. Mozart and La Divina by Thomas Pasatieri. Brady McElligott will direct. This program is free and open to the public. Find out more » « Previous Day Next Day » + Export Events 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT