Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up NC State University Calendar Friday, June 3 Inclusive Excellence Summer Intensive Clear message Inclusive Excellence Summer Intensive Friday, June 3, 2022 8:30 am to 12:30 pm I'm Interested Register Share Inclusive Excellence Summer Intensive Share Inclusive Excellence Summer Intensive on Facebook Share Inclusive Excellence Summer Intensive on Twitter Share Inclusive Excellence Summer Intensive on LinkedIn I'm Interested Register About this Event Virtual Event Add to calendar Add to calendar The Inclusive Excellence Summer Intensive workshop is a chance to refresh and strengthen your foundational diversity, equity and inclusion skills. Please use the registration link above to signup for the program before the May 20 deadline. The free workshop will cover foundational concepts such as: Understanding cultural and social identities. Recognizing the types of unconscious bias. Responding to microaggressions. Participants will engage in small group discussions and develop strategies to apply in real-world workplace situations. The training is for: Faculty members with little time for professional development during the academic year. Cooperative Extension agents who can’t attend face-to-face training. Busy staff members who want to increase their skills and connect with others at NC State. Graduate students or postdocs seeking preparation for the classroom or their careers. Please note that this program is a shortened version of the Inclusive Excellence Certification program. Learners who have completed the IEC should register for the Strategic Practice Certificate program in 2022-23, not the summer workshop. Event Details Event Type Workshops and Training Topic Diversity and Inclusion Website https://diversity.ncsu.edu/summer-int... Cost Free Group Inclusive Excellence and Strategic Practice Department Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity EVENT COORDINATOR In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, NC State will honor requests for reasonable accommodations made by individuals with disabilities. Direct accommodation requests to: Melissa Edwards Smith at mmedward@ncsu.edu. 0 people are interested in this event I'm Interested NC State University Calendar Event Types Academic Calendar Community Events Exhibitions Films Lectures and Talks Meetings and Conferences Performances Red and White Week Student Life Tours Workshops and Training Topic Arts and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Global Health and Wellness Scholarship and Research Service Social and Entertainment Student Recruitment and Admissions Sustainability Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan CAMPUS MAP © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. NC State University Calendar Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in or Log in with Unity ID I forgot my password I don't have an account yet