Skip to main content Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Flickr LinkedIn Pinterest RSS Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Flickr LinkedIn Pinterest RSS Twitter YouTube Campus Calendar Menu Day Week Month Filters Today is June 01, 2022 Institute Holidays Academic Calendar Religious & National Observances Submit Your Event Georgia Tech Login Required Get Events June S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Search form Search Categories Arts and Performance Career/Professional development Conference/Symposium Other/Miscellaneous Seminar/Lecture/Colloquium Special event Sports/Athletics Student sponsored Training/Workshop Current campus guidelines for any gathering other than academic classes, professional education programs (GTPE), or department meetings are available at specialevents.gatech.edu/campus-events-guidelines. Friday, April 15 2022 All day The Kendeda Building Add To My Calendar SDG 5 Gender Equality: Reimagining our Future through Art and Technology As part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the United Nations developed 17 broad and interconnected Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that address the global challenges humanity faces, such as ending poverty and hunger and reducing inequality. SDG 5, Gender Equality, aims to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Gender equality intersects with all the SDGs and is therefore essential to advancing sustainable development globally. We invited trans women, non-binary people, and cis women affiliated with Georgia Tech (undergraduate and graduate students, staff, faculty, researchers, and artists) to submit digitized photography, paintings, creative writing, and research papers, for the exhibition, Gender Equality: Reimagining our Future through Art and Technology. The exhibition uses Gender Equality as a theme to connect diverse research methods, artistic endeavors, and knowledge production occurring today on Georgia Tech’s campus. It is not a space to simply showcase women in technology, but to demonstrate how women in technology are reshaping research questions and pushing artistic boundaries which can bring us closer to accomplishing this grand goal. This is a unique opportunity for the Georgia Tech community to come together from disciplinary perspectives to be inspired by creative merits occurring on campus to reflect, connect, and reimagine the future of Georgia Tech. The exhibition is supported by The Center for Serve-Learn-Sustain, Women’s Resource Center, and The Kendeda Building For Innovative Sustainable Living. Michelle Ramirez (she/her) is a second-year Digital Media master's student and current Graduate Research Assistant with SLS. Under the supervision of Dr. Rebecca Watts Hull (she/ her), Michelle researches how to integrate Sustainable Development Goals into the university curriculum. Michelle is responsible for organizing the exhibition. Related Links Gender Equality Exhibition Digital Magazine Arts and Performance Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology