The University of Texas at Austin Texas Today Main Menu Login Search our events Search Texas Today: UT Events & Announcements Calendar › Arts & Humanities Events Please visit the Protect Texas Together website for the latest campus information on COVID-19. STAY INFORMED Google Calendar iCal Outlook RSS Arts & Humanities Events ← → Tuesday, May 31 Apply: Research Assistant for Study on Children who Translate for English-limited Parents Academics, Arts & Humanities, Campus & Community, Research Opportunities & Studies, Diversity / Hispanic Heritage Month We study social, emotional, educational, and health outcomes of middle school and high school students of Mexican origin who translate for their parents who... Sarah M. and Charles E. Seay Building (SEA), 2.322G Stream Available Degrees of Fitness / Sporting Bodies Arts & Humanities Degrees of Fitness / Sporting Bodies is a new exhibit at The H.J. Lutcher Stark Center at the University of Texas. It features works by former UT-Austin... The H.J. Lutcher Stark Center for Physical Culture and Sports, North End Zone, 5.700 Watch ThisI'm Interested Present/Past: The Robert Polidori Photographic Archive Arts & Humanities Robert Polidori is one of the world’s most acclaimed architectural photographers of human habitats and environments. His photographs bear witness to the... 9am Briscoe Center for American History, Sid Richardson Hall Unit 2 RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Stories to Tell Exhibition @ Ransom Center Arts & Humanities The Harry Ransom Center houses some of the world's most significant collections relating to literature, art, photography, film, and the performing arts. The... 10am Harry Ransom Center (HRC) Stories to Tell: Selections from the Harry Ransom Center Arts & Humanities, World & Culture The Harry Ransom Center houses some of the world's most significant collections relating to literature, art, photography, film, and the performing arts. More... 10am Harry Ransom Center (HRC) Women and the Making of Joyce's Ulysses Arts & Humanities James Joyce's Ulysses, considered a landmark work of literary modernism, was first published on February 2, 1922. This exhibition marks the 100th anniversary... 10am Harry Ransom Center (HRC) Women and the Making of Joyce's Ulysses Arts & Humanities New exhibition marks the 100th anniversary of the publication of James Joyce's famed masterpiece and investigates the important and largely unacknowledged... 10am Harry Ransom Center (HRC) Watch ThisI'm Interested Never Alone Academics, Arts & Humanities, Campus & Community, Policy & Law, World & Culture, Diversity, Social Justice “For you who believe you’re doing time alone, look around you. Those thoughts are not the truth.” -- Christopher Williams Kendrick Mitchell and... 12pm Gordon White Building (GWB), Room 2.204 Red River Ensemble Orchestra rehearsals Arts & Humanities Do you want to join a new orchestra to bring music to hospital patients? UT Austin faculty, staff, and trainees are invited to join the Red River Ensemble,... 7:30pm Dell Seton Medical Center , First floor Atrium ← → Tuesday, May 31 Submit an Event/Announcement All Events Places to Go Groups Switch to April 2022 Switch to June 2022 May Calendar Date Navigation S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 View Today Calendar View by Day Week Month Next 30 Days Sort options Sort by Date Name Popularity Hide Recurring Events Hide Recurring Events Experience All Experiences In-Person Virtual Event / Announcement Types Type All Types Research Opportunities & Studies (34) Arts & Humanities (9) Health & Wellness (7) Academics (5) World & Culture (5) Campus & Community (4) › Free Speech Week (0) › Longhorn Welcome (0) › Sustainability (0) Diversity (3) Science & Tech (2) › Entrepreneurship & Innovation (1) Policy & Law (1) Social Justice (1) Sports & Recreation (1) Business & Economy (0) Show More Departments Department All Departments All Departments (6) College of Education (1) Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost (1) Cockrell School of Engineering (0) College of Fine Arts (0) › Butler School of Music (0) › Department of Art & Art History (0) › Department of Theatre and Dance (0) › Landmarks (0) › School of Design and Creative Technologies (0) › Texas Performing Arts (0) › Visual Arts Center (0) Expand College of Liberal Arts (0) College of Natural Sciences (0) College of Pharmacy (0) Dell Medical School (0) Division of Diversity and Community Engagement (0) Division of Student Affairs (0) Jackson School of Geosciences (0) LBJ School of Public Affairs (0) McCombs School of Business (0) Moody College of Communication (0) › Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life (0) › Center for Health Communication (0) › Center for Media Engagement (0) › Center for Sports Communication & Media (0) › Communication and Leadership (0) › Communication Sciences and Disorders (0) › Communication Studies (0) › Journalism (0) › Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas (0) › KUT/KUTX (0) › Moody College Honors Program (0) › Moody Writing Support Program (0) › Radio-Television-Film (0) › Stan Richards School of Advertising and Public Relations (0) › UT in Los Angeles Program (UTLA) (0) Expand Office of the President (0) Office of the Vice President for Research (0) › Good Systems (0) › Planet Texas 2050 (0) › Whole Communities – Whole Health (0) School of Architecture (0) School of Information (0) School of Law (0) School of Nursing (0) School of Social Work (0) School of Undergraduate Studies (0) University of Texas Libraries (0) University Operations (0) UT in New York Program (UTNY) (0) Show More Target Audience Target Audience All Target Audiences General Public (7) Students (7) Alumni (6) Faculty (6) Staff (6) Families (4) Show More Import Type Import Type All Import Types COFA (0) › COFA/Art & Art History (0) › COFA/College of Fine Arts (0) › COFA/School of Design and Creative Technologies (0) › COFA/School of Music (0) › COFA/Theatre & Dance (0) › COFA/Visual Arts Center (0) Expand Hornslink (0) Know Events (0) Texas Sports (0) Campus Announcements Campus Announcement All Campus Announcements Apply (1) Volunteer (1) Nominate (0) Register (0) Research Opportunities Research Opportunity All Research Opportunities Unpaid (1) Paid (0) Student Organizations Student Organization All Student Organizations Hornslink (0) Subscribe to These Results Google Calendar Apple iCal Outlook RSS The University of Texas at Austin Academic Calendars Holiday Calendar Subscribe to our newsletter Related Links UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2020 Powered by the Localist Community Events Calendar © Login to Texas Today: UT Events & Announcements Calendar Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with School ID