Sign Up Log In Search Search Clemson Events › Event Details Reading and book signing with Steve Berry International best-selling author Steve Berry will give a reading of his new novel, “The Omega Factor,” on Tuesday, June 14, at 7 p.m. at the AT&T Auditorium on the Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research campus in Greenville. Hosted by Clemson Libraries in partnership with Greenville bookstore Fiction Addiction, tickets to the event are $45 and include a hard-cover copy of the book and admission to a book signing following Berry’s talk. Berry is the author of 20 novels, including “The Omega Factor,” which will be released on June 7. Berry is best known for his Cotton Malone novels, a series of historical thrillers featuring an ex-U.S. Justice Department agent turned antiquarian book dealer. Berry’s books have been translated in 41 languages selling more than 25,000,000 copies in 52 countries. Berry has been recognized with numerous awards, including the Royden B. Davis Distinguished Author Award, the Barnes & Noble Writers for Writers Award given by Poets & Writers, the Anne Frank Human Writes Award, and the Silver Bullet, bestowed by International Thriller Writers for his philanthropic work. He has been chosen as both the Florida and Georgia Writer of the Year. He’s also an emeritus member of the Smithsonian Libraries Advisory Board. A native of Georgia, Berry graduated from the Walter F. George School of Law at Mercer University and was a trial lawyer for 30 years. In 2009, he and his wife Elizabeth Berry founded History Matters, a foundation dedicated to historic preservation. Tuesday, June 14 at 7:00pm CU-ICAR campus, AT&T Auditorium 5 Research Drive, Greenville, SC 29607 Notice of Non-Discrimination Event Type Arts/Entertainment, Lectures / Seminars / Speakers, Special Events Target Audience All Audiences Departments Libraries Website https://www.eventbrite.com/e/reading-... Cost $45 Contact Name: Angela Nixon Contact Phone: 864-656-2681 Contact Email: anixon@clemson.edu Subscribe Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Buy Tickets Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested No activity yet Getting Here <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> Detailed Directions The AT&T Auditorium is located in the Campbell Graduate Engineering Center on the CU-ICAR campus in Greenville. You're not going yet! This event requires registration. Buy Tickets Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2020 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson Login to Clemson University Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with Clemson ID Login with Facebook Login with Google Login with LinkedIn