Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Login Submit an Event View my Events Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Events Calendar Events for May 2022 Events Search and Views Navigation Show Events Search Events Search Events In Search Event Views Navigation View As ListMonthDay Narrow Your Results Collapse Filters Show Filters Reset Filters Notice: Utilizing the form controls will dynamically update the content Event Category Venues Organizers Day Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Collapse Filters Show Filters Reset Filters « April June » Calendar of Events Calendar of Events Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 1 2 National CanArchitecture Competition Final Exams 3 National CanArchitecture Competition Final Exams TU Opera presents Divas, Divas, Divas! 4 Final Exams 5 Final Exams Collins College of Business Graduation Reception & Awards Ceremony Book launch – Queerly Beloved Concerts with Commentary – Franz Schubert’s Wanderer Fantasy 6 Undergraduate Student Graduation Tea – Communication Sciences and Disorders Graduate Student Graduation Tea – Communication Sciences and Disorders Baccalaureate Service and Luncheon Final Bell Party Softball: Tulsa vs. East Carolina View All 8 Events » 7 ENS Commencement Breakfast Commencement Ceremony Softball: Tulsa vs. East Carolina 8 Softball: Tulsa vs. East Carolina 9 10 11 12 Conference of Accountants presented by The University of Tulsa 13 Conference of Accountants presented by The University of Tulsa 14 15 Alumni Afternoon at the Tulsa Drillers 16 17 18 19 20 Mapping Historical Trauma in Tulsa from 1921-2021 – Application Deadline Tulsa Race Massacre Commemoration and Reception 21 22 23 Summer Term Begins 24 Thunder Fellows capstone projects and awards 25 Cultural and Ancestral Geographies: A Symposium with Streams Reconciliation in America National Symposium Speaker – Michael Eric Dyson 26 Luncheon with Chief Judge Sutton 27 28 29 30 Memorial Day 31 1 2 3 Dylan and the Beats 4 Dylan and the Beats « April June » + Export Events 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT