The University of Texas at Austin Texas Today Main Menu Login Search our events Search Texas Today: UT Events & Announcements Calendar › Places to Go Please visit the Protect Texas Together website for the latest campus information on COVID-19. STAY INFORMED Places to Go ← → 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 2616 Wichita (BWY) Academic Annex (ACA) Aerospace Engineering Building (ASE) Art Building (ART) Located on the northeast corner of San Jacinto Blvd and 23rd St, the Art Building is home to the Department of Art and Art History, which offers degree... AT&T Executive Education and Conference Center (ATT) Come on in—we're holding the door for you at The University of Texas at Austin's new hotel and conference center. Just a few miles from the airport, a... Atrium, F. Loren Winship Drama Building (WIN) The F. Loren Winship Drama Building Atrium offers an open, bright setting for guest artist and scholar lectures, innovative exhibits, and intimate... B. Iden Payne Theatre Lobby, F. Loren Winship Drama Building (WIN) The B. Iden Payne Theatre Lobby offers a setting for guest artist and scholar lectures, innovative exhibits, and intimate receptions. The lobby adjoins with... B. Iden Payne Theatre, F. Loren Winship Drama Building (WIN) The 500-seat B. Iden Payne Theatre provides the perfect setting for plays and dance performances, allowing audiences a close-up look at the action onstage.... Bass Concert Hall, Performing Arts Center (PAC) This flagship theatre of Texas Performing Arts is the largest in Austin, with seating for 2,900. The hall boasts a vast stage, an orchestra pit capable of... Bates Recital Hall, Music Building (MRH) Bates Recital Hall is a 650-seat venue that is capable of hosting everything from symphony orchestras, major choral presentations and concert bands to... Battle Hall (BTL) Batts Hall (BAT) Belo Center for New Media (BMC) Located at the northeast corner of Dean Keeton and Guadalupe Streets, the $54.8 million Belo Center provides interactive classrooms and meeting space for... Benedict Hall (BEN) Benson Latin American Collection Bernard and Audre Rapoport Building (BRB) Biomedical Engineering Building (BME) Black And Latino Studies Building (BLS) Blanton Museum of Art (BMA) The Blanton Museum of Art at The University of Texas at Austin is one of the foremost university art museums in the country, and has the largest and most... Burdine Hall (BUR) ← → 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Submit an Event/Announcement All Events Places to Go Groups Sort options Sort by Name Popularity Experience All Experiences In-Person Virtual The University of Texas at Austin Academic Calendars Holiday Calendar Subscribe to our newsletter Related Links UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2020 Powered by the Localist Community Events Calendar © Login to Texas Today: UT Events & Announcements Calendar Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with School ID