Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Search Search Log In University of Oregon Events › Event Details Unceded Kinship: Land, Place & People Wednesday, June 1 More dates through September 9, 2022 Thursday, June 2 Friday, June 3 Saturday, June 4 Sunday, June 5 Monday, June 6 Tuesday, June 7 Wednesday, June 8 Thursday, June 9 Friday, June 10 Saturday, June 11 Knight Library, Circulation Lobby 1501 Kincaid Street, Eugene, OR Unceded Kinship: Land, Place and People seeks to honor the past, present, and future of Native and Afro descendent peoples by restoring and reviving our relationship to one another and to the natural world. Through holding and regarding kinship, solidarity, and community as sacred. By refusing the narratives of erasure, dehumanization, and subjugation. Finally, by envisioning a future rooted in Black Liberation and Indigenous Sovereignty! In partnership with UO Common Reading, Amber Starks (aka Melanin Mvskoke), University and Community stakeholders, and the University of Oregon Libraries, the Unceded Kinship art exhibition showcases Afro descendent and Native artists with connections to Oregon and their respective communities. Unceded Kinship is a celebration of these artists contributions to the movements of Black Liberation and Indigenous Sovereignty and explores the ongoing conversations within and across Afro descendent and Native communities around decentering white supremacy and settler colonialism. The exhibition personifies ways in which Native and Afro descendant peoples have built community and invested in kinship. The exhibition asserts that both movements are compatible technologies of resistance and futurity, and is a reminder that Native and Afro descendent peoples have always been the authors and architects of their liberation. Ultimately, Unceded Kinship: Land, Place and People affirms the future for both peoples outside of oppression and subjugation, a future envisioned and built for them, by them! For more information, visit the UO Common Reading Unceded Kinship: Land, Place, and People webpage. Event Type Arts & Culture, Free, Exhibit, Diversity and Multiculturalism, Common Reading, Native American, Black and African American, Listen.Learn.Act Departments UO Libraries, Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success, First Year Programs Target Audience All Students, Faculty/Staff, General Public, Graduate Students, New Students, Alumni Website https://library.uoregon.edu/communica... Cost Free Hashtag ##uocommonreading #uofyp #knightlibrary #uncededkinship Subscribe Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested No activity yet Getting Here <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> This event content is powered by the Localist Community Event Platform. Login to University of Oregon Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with Duck ID