Sign Up Log In Search Search Clemson Events › Event Details Clemson MBA Open House We invite you to come and learn about the Clemson MBA program! During the Open House, you will get the opportunity to tour the space, meet some of the Clemson MBA team, as well as set up a one-on-one time with either an admissions counselor or academic advisor in order to tailor a conversation specifically for your needs! Please bring any and all questions and we will get you taken care of. There will be light refreshments available. Once you RSVP, you will receive an email message the week of the event to secure a specific timeslot to schedule a 1:1 meeting with a member of our team to accommodate your schedule. If you have a specific timeframe you need to meet, please email mbaprogram@clemson.edu and we can get you scheduled ahead of time. We look forward to seeing you! Thursday, June 9 at 9:00am to 2:30am Greenville ONE, 5th Floor 1 North Main Street Greenville, SC 29601 Notice of Non-Discrimination Event Type General, Lectures / Seminars / Speakers, Special Events Target Audience General Public, Faculty, Staff, Alumni, Parents/Guests Departments Alumni Relations, Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business, Economics, Graphic Communications, Human Resources, Management, Marketing, Centers and Institutes, Center for Corporate Learning (formerly PACE), Staff Senate, Faculty Senate, Accounting, MBA, Graduate School, Center for Career and Professional Development, Staff Development Program, Finance, College of Business Development, Erwin Center for Brand Communications Website https://www.eventbrite.com/e/clemson-... Cost 0 Hashtag #mba Contact Name: Paige Kegley Contact Phone: 8643650604 Contact Email: pkegley@clemson.edu Subscribe Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Register Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested No activity yet Getting Here <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> You're not going yet! This event requires registration. Register Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2020 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson Login to Clemson University Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with Clemson ID Login with Facebook Login with Google Login with LinkedIn