The University of Texas at Austin Texas Today Main Menu Login Search our events Search Texas Today: UT Events & Announcements Calendar › Health & Wellness Events Please visit the Protect Texas Together website for the latest campus information on COVID-19. STAY INFORMED Google Calendar iCal Outlook RSS Health & Wellness Events ← → Tuesday, May 31 An Online Survey Study of Well-Being and Skills Health & Wellness, Research Opportunities & Studies Researchers at Boston University are conducting an online survey study of Well-Being and Skills, and they are looking for adults 18 or older to participate.... Virtual Event PCOS Research Opportunity- chance to win $100 Amazon gift card! Health & Wellness, Research Opportunities & Studies I have created an anonymous online survey with questions about living with PCOS, sleep quality, and symptoms of mental health (both positive and negative).... Virtual Event Purity Culture Study Recruitment Health & Wellness We are currently looking to recruit cisgender men and women who have participated in purity culture to complete a survey.   Our goal is to gather... Virtual Event Research Volunteer Opportunity Academics, Health & Wellness, Research Opportunities & Studies, Science & Tech The UT Clinical Neuroprosthetics and Brain Interaction Lab (Led by Dr. José del R. Millán) is looking for students/adults to participate in a brain-computer... 2501 Speedway, Austin, TX 78712, EER 6.828A Cardiovascular health; Participants needed to evaluate the effect of various legwear on arterial... Health & Wellness, Research Opportunities & Studies The new method to measure arterial health is measuring arterial stiffness using Pulse Wave Velocity, a quick, painless, and non-invasive measure. Pulse wave... 6am L. Theo Bellmont Hall (BEL), 842A Artificial Intelligence Paid Research Study: Predicting Brain Health After Cancer Health & Wellness We are conducting a study to increase our understanding about the brain and cognitive changes that occur following diagnosis and treatment for breast cancer.... 8am Health Discovery Building (HDB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Paid research study! Brain imaging of trauma and stress Health & Wellness, Research Opportunities & Studies Have you experienced a trauma or extremely stressful life event? Would you like to contribute to science? The Fonzo Lab is a team of researchers and... 8am Health Discovery Building (HDB) ← → Tuesday, May 31 Submit an Event/Announcement All Events Places to Go Groups Switch to April 2022 Switch to June 2022 May Calendar Date Navigation S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 View Today Calendar View by Day Week Month Next 30 Days Sort options Sort by Date Name Popularity Hide Recurring Events Hide Recurring Events Experience All Experiences In-Person Virtual Event / Announcement Types Type All Types Research Opportunities & Studies (34) Arts & Humanities (9) Health & Wellness (7) Academics (5) World & Culture (5) Campus & Community (4) › Free Speech Week (0) › Longhorn Welcome (0) › Sustainability (0) Diversity (3) Science & Tech (2) › Entrepreneurship & Innovation (1) Policy & Law (1) Social Justice (1) Sports & Recreation (1) Business & Economy (0) Show More Departments Department All Departments College of Education (2) School of Nursing (2) Cockrell School of Engineering (1) College of Liberal Arts (1) Dell Medical School (1) All Departments (0) College of Fine Arts (0) › Butler School of Music (0) › Department of Art & Art History (0) › Department of Theatre and Dance (0) › Landmarks (0) › School of Design and Creative Technologies (0) › Texas Performing Arts (0) › Visual Arts Center (0) Expand College of Natural Sciences (0) College of Pharmacy (0) Division of Diversity and Community Engagement (0) Division of Student Affairs (0) Jackson School of Geosciences (0) LBJ School of Public Affairs (0) McCombs School of Business (0) Moody College of Communication (0) › Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life (0) › Center for Health Communication (0) › Center for Media Engagement (0) › Center for Sports Communication & Media (0) › Communication and Leadership (0) › Communication Sciences and Disorders (0) › Communication Studies (0) › Journalism (0) › Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas (0) › KUT/KUTX (0) › Moody College Honors Program (0) › Moody Writing Support Program (0) › Radio-Television-Film (0) › Stan Richards School of Advertising and Public Relations (0) › UT in Los Angeles Program (UTLA) (0) Expand Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost (0) Office of the President (0) Office of the Vice President for Research (0) › Good Systems (0) › Planet Texas 2050 (0) › Whole Communities – Whole Health (0) School of Architecture (0) School of Information (0) School of Law (0) School of Social Work (0) School of Undergraduate Studies (0) University of Texas Libraries (0) University Operations (0) UT in New York Program (UTNY) (0) Show More Target Audience Target Audience All Target Audiences General Public (4) Students (4) Alumni (1) Faculty (1) Staff (1) Families (0) Show More Import Type Import Type All Import Types COFA (0) › COFA/Art & Art History (0) › COFA/College of Fine Arts (0) › COFA/School of Design and Creative Technologies (0) › COFA/School of Music (0) › COFA/Theatre & Dance (0) › COFA/Visual Arts Center (0) Expand Hornslink (0) Know Events (0) Texas Sports (0) Campus Announcements Campus Announcement All Campus Announcements Volunteer (3) Apply (0) Nominate (0) Register (0) Research Opportunities Research Opportunity All Research Opportunities Paid (3) Unpaid (3) Student Organizations Student Organization All Student Organizations Hornslink (0) Subscribe to These Results Google Calendar Apple iCal Outlook RSS The University of Texas at Austin Academic Calendars Holiday Calendar Subscribe to our newsletter Related Links UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2020 Powered by the Localist Community Events Calendar © Login to Texas Today: UT Events & Announcements Calendar Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with School ID