The University of Kansas MENU THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Events Calendar myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search Search Places Events Groups Departments KU Events Calendar All Events Departments Places myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay Sign in Select to sign in THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Events Calendar Menu Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up The University of Kansas Thursday, July 14 CCEC: Treatment of Depression and Anxiety: A Focus on Medications Clear message CCEC: Treatment of Depression and Anxiety: A Focus on Medications Thursday, July 14, 2022 10am to 12pm $26 I'm Interested Buy Tickets Share CCEC: Treatment of Depression and Anxiety: A Focus on Medications Share CCEC: Treatment of Depression and Anxiety: A Focus on Medications on Facebook Share CCEC: Treatment of Depression and Anxiety: A Focus on Medications on Twitter Share CCEC: Treatment of Depression and Anxiety: A Focus on Medications on LinkedIn I'm Interested Buy Tickets About this Event Virtual Event View stream information $26 Add to calendar Save to Google Calendar Save to iCal Save to Outlook Add to calendar This two-hour workshop will help assist social workers in gaining an understanding of pharmacologic treatment options for depression and anxiety-related disorders (e.g. general anxiety disorder, panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorders). Participants will learn about risk factors, diagnostic criteria and treatment options. This program will review, indications for use, brand names, generic names, side effects and benefits of medications. Lastly, the program will give social workers important educational points to discuss with their patients regarding medications for depression and anxiety. Learning Objectives: 1. List diagnostic criteria, etiology and basic pathophysiology of depression and anxiety disorder. 2. Discuss pharmacologic treatments commonly used for the treatment of depression and anxiety disorders. 3. Discuss common and serious side effects of medications used to treat depression and anxiety disorders. 4. Identify key educational points to discuss with patients receiving treatment for depression and anxiety disorders. Cost: $26.00 CEUs: 2 Presenter: Dr. Karen E. Moeller Dr. Karen E. Moeller is a Clinical Professor in the Department of Pharmacy Practice. She earned her Doctor of Pharmacy degree from Virginia Commonwealth University and earned a Bachelor of Science degree in chemistry and mathematics from The University of Tennessee, Knoxville. She completed her hospital pharmacy practice residency and psychiatric pharmacy practice residency at West Virginia University. She is board certified in psychiatric pharmacy and provides clinical services in the adult inpatient psychiatry unit at The University of Kansas Health Systems. Dr. Moeller is active in teaching, service, and research. She provides both didactic and experiential education for pharmacy students, medical students and psychiatry residents. She has authored and co-authored many peer-reviewed publications and has presented her work locally, statewide and nationally. She is very active in the College of Psychiatric and Neurologic Pharmacists and recently served on the Board of Directors. Her research interests are in the areas of substance abuse, schizophrenia and pharmacy education. For Questions Contact Robin Nelson at: nelsonr@ku.edu Event Details Event Type Training & Professional Development Target Audience Community, Faculty, Staff Topic / Interest Health & Wellness Website https://www.socwel.ku.edu/ccec Cost $26 Department School of Social Welfare Email nelsonr@ku.edu 1 person is interested in this event I'm Interested Hide stream Show stream Dial-In Information Live Presentation: On-Line via Zoom. The University of Kansas Event Types Academic Ceremonies Community Engagement Concerts & Performances Galleries & Exhibitions Lectures & Presentations Meetings & Conferences Training & Professional Development Youth Programs Target Audience Alumni Community Faculty Graduate Students Prospective Students Staff Undergraduate Students Topic / Interest Arts & Culture Diversity & Inclusion Entertainment & Social Health & Wellness Innovation & Research International Affairs Leadership & Civic Engagement Science & Technology Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Benefits Services Time & Pay Contact Website Support Accessibility Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement © 2020 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents. The University of Kansas Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in Email Address Email Address is required. Password Password is required. or Log in with KU OnlineID Log in with Google Log in with Facebook Log in with Twitter Log in with LinkedIn I forgot my password I don't have an account yet