Skip to main content Header Menu Search Company About Culture Leadership Partners News Careers Support & Help Login Main navigation Solutions (Submenu Row) Maintain & Manage Maintenance & Operations Enterprise Asset Management Sustain & Engage Community Engagement Sustainability & Energy (Submenu Row) Plan & Optimize Smart Automation Strategy & Capital Planning All Products Maintenance & Operations Optimize your day-to-day operations to drive efficiency. Predict & prevent needs, streamline workflows and manage work orders and assets with comprehensive CMMS Explore all Maintenance & Operations Featured Products Asset Essentials TheWorxHub Enterprise Asset Management Improve the performance of your assets to reduce costs. Assess and manage the performance of your collective assets with data-driven enterprise asset management (EAM). Explore all Enterprise Asset Management Featured Products Asset Essentials TheWorxHub Community Engagement Provide tools, information and access to simplify and streamline. Engage communities and stakeholders with relevant asset-centric information and intelligence. Explore all Community Engagement Featured Products SmartGov Event Manager Sustainability & Energy Understand energy usage to plan smarter and eliminate waste. Reduce utility consumption and environmental footprint, cut costs and support ESG initiatives. Explore all Sustainability & Energy Featured Products Energy Manager All Products Strategy & Capital Planning Make data-driven decisions to ensure smart investments. Build short- and long-term operational and capital plans with strategic asset management (SAM) Explore all Strategic Asset Management Featured Products Predictor WorkPlanner Smart Automation Respond faster to avoid issues and unnecessary costs. Analyze data, model trends, and automate actions with IoT remote monitoring. Explore all Smart Automation Industries Industry Expertise Education Keeping students focused and schools and universities efficient for 20+ years Government Enhancing processes for counties, municipalities and citizens. Healthcare Helping clients with operations and compliance expertise. Manufacturing Supporting more uptime with manufacturing experience. Senior Living Bringing our know-how to facilities for satisfied residents. Clubs & Associations Promoting membership growth and keeping members happy. Why Brightly? (Submenu Row) Client Stories See how organizations like yours have seen success with our software. Client Services & Support Your operations success is our focus; we’re here for you. Implementation Fast time to value with industry specialists. Professional Services How you can kickstart your software adoption with services. Technology & Security Your data made safe, protected, secure Partners Find out who we work with and how you can partner with us. Resources (Submenu Row) Learn Blog Read up on trends, tips and good news in your world of operations. Resource Library Find helpful tips and actionable advice to inspire efficiency in your daily work. Webinars Hear from experts and peers in your field about important trends in operatoins. Engage Brightly Community Find the product, support and software help you need, 24/7. Featured Resources Guide Cybersecurity and CMMS case study Franklin County, Ohio Success Story See All Resources CTA navigation Request a Demo Contact Sales Search Menu Main navigation Solutions (Submenu Row) Maintain & Manage Maintenance & Operations Enterprise Asset Management Sustain & Engage Community Engagement Sustainability & Energy (Submenu Row) Plan & Optimize Smart Automation Strategy & Capital Planning All Products Maintenance & Operations Optimize your day-to-day operations to drive efficiency. Predict & prevent needs, streamline workflows and manage work orders and assets with comprehensive CMMS Explore all Maintenance & Operations Featured Products Asset Essentials TheWorxHub Enterprise Asset Management Improve the performance of your assets to reduce costs. Assess and manage the performance of your collective assets with data-driven enterprise asset management (EAM). Explore all Enterprise Asset Management Featured Products Asset Essentials TheWorxHub Community Engagement Provide tools, information and access to simplify and streamline. Engage communities and stakeholders with relevant asset-centric information and intelligence. Explore all Community Engagement Featured Products SmartGov Event Manager Sustainability & Energy Understand energy usage to plan smarter and eliminate waste. Reduce utility consumption and environmental footprint, cut costs and support ESG initiatives. Explore all Sustainability & Energy Featured Products Energy Manager All Products Strategy & Capital Planning Make data-driven decisions to ensure smart investments. Build short- and long-term operational and capital plans with strategic asset management (SAM) Explore all Strategic Asset Management Featured Products Predictor WorkPlanner Smart Automation Respond faster to avoid issues and unnecessary costs. Analyze data, model trends, and automate actions with IoT remote monitoring. Explore all Smart Automation Industries Industry Expertise Education Keeping students focused and schools and universities efficient for 20+ years Government Enhancing processes for counties, municipalities and citizens. Healthcare Helping clients with operations and compliance expertise. Manufacturing Supporting more uptime with manufacturing experience. Senior Living Bringing our know-how to facilities for satisfied residents. Clubs & Associations Promoting membership growth and keeping members happy. Why Brightly? (Submenu Row) Client Stories See how organizations like yours have seen success with our software. Client Services & Support Your operations success is our focus; we’re here for you. Implementation Fast time to value with industry specialists. Professional Services How you can kickstart your software adoption with services. Technology & Security Your data made safe, protected, secure Partners Find out who we work with and how you can partner with us. Resources (Submenu Row) Learn Blog Read up on trends, tips and good news in your world of operations. Resource Library Find helpful tips and actionable advice to inspire efficiency in your daily work. Webinars Hear from experts and peers in your field about important trends in operatoins. Engage Brightly Community Find the product, support and software help you need, 24/7. Featured Resources Guide Cybersecurity and CMMS case study Franklin County, Ohio Success Story See All Resources Search CTA navigation Request a Demo Contact Sales Header Menu Search Company About Culture Leadership Partners News Careers Support & Help Login The world's smartest asset management solution Solve every operational challenge that comes your way and transform the performance of your assets. With Brightly’s complete suite of intuitive - including CMMS, EAM, Strategic Asset Management, IoT Remote Monitoring, Sustainability and Community Engagement - software solutions, you can realize a future where efficient operations and smart assets power sustainable communities. Request a demo Meet Brightly 12K clients served 4.6M users empowered 250M citizens impacted 400M work orders addressed 50M assets logged $321B of asset value supported Software for smarter assets From preventing a leak to avoiding a power outage to repairing city streets and bridges, Brightly helps clients through the key phases of the asset management lifecycle. Designed to simplify and help oversee every last detail of your assets and operations, our data-driven solutions enable you to work smarter, eliminate waste and avoid undue costs. Maintenance & Operations Predict & prevent needs, streamline workflows and manage work orders and assets with comprehensive CMMS Learn more Enterprise Asset Management Assess and manage the performance of your collective assets with data-driven Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) Learn more Strategy & Capital Planning Build short- and long-term operational and capital plans for strategic asset management (SAM) Learn more Smart Automation Analyze data, model trends, and automate actions with IoT remote monitoring Learn more Sustainability & Energy Reduce utility consumption and environmental footprint, cut costs and support ESG initiatives Learn more Community Engagement Engage communities and stakeholders with relevant asset-centric information and intelligence Learn more Future-proof your work Brightly’s sophisticated, cloud-based platform pairs an unprecedented 20-plus years of operations and asset data with smart models built on AI, machine learning and IoT technology. This platform powers our complete suite of intuitive software solutions and taps an intelligent ecosystem of information to provide the trusted, predictive insights you need to make decisions with confidence. View all products Make evolution easy Serving our clients so they can serve their citizens, communities and businesses is in our DNA. As the world around us evolves faster than we could have ever imagined, Brightly remains the trusted partner to guide the market. Our dedicated industry and market specialists along with our hands-on service and legendary support teams help you own tomorrow no matter where you are today. Learn More Success Story From road repair to smart lighting, the City of Edinburgh Council is driving cost savings Client The City of Edinburgh Council Edinburgh, Scotland Consolidating data on so many different asset types in one location helps the City of Edinburgh Council "You can see key measures at a glance. The value of having all of our information in one place is huge for driving service improvement and for meeting our efficiency targets." Gareth Barwell Head of Place Management, The City of Edinburgh Council See Full Case Study Success Story Pepsi Bottling Ventures Client Success Story Client Pepsi Bottling Ventures LLC Garner, North Carolina Pepsi Bottling Ventures gains significant time and labor savings with asset management solution “They are always coming out with new updates and integrating the feedback we give them. We consider them a partner and look forward to future successes together.” Tom Wiza Plant Manager and VP of Operations, Pepsi Bottling Ventures See Full Case Study Success Story Mobile asset management makes North Lanarkshire Council more responsive to residents Client North Lanarkshire Council North Lanarkshire, UK Mobile asset management makes North Lanarkshire Council more responsive to residents "Using the mobiles enables our officers to stay out in the field. They’re more productive, and we’re saving money on paper, fuel and office space." Steven Broadfoot Customer Service and Compliance Manager for Environmental Assets, North Lanarkshire Council See Full Case Study Success Story Rancho California Water District Client Success Story Client Rancho California Water District Temecula/Rancho, California Rancho California Water District uses Brightly to identify $3.4M in savings "We had been experiencing mixed results employing different asset management products and solutions that never quite lived up to our expectations. Our results really turned for the better once we started using Brightly and adopted a lifecycle approach to our long-term strategic asset management strategies." Jeff Kirshberg Water Resource Manager, RCWD See Full Case Study Success Story Des Moines Public Schools Client Success Story Client Des Moines Public Schools Des Moines, Iowa 9-Year ENERGY STAR award winner Des Moines Public Schools uses Brightly for $20M+ in savings “We use Energy Manager as a concise place that has all our data. Spreadsheets and things like that are difficult to manage. Having everything in one spot has proven to be a valuable thing for us. It allows us to quickly understand our utility usage and costs.” $20M saved and prevented 40K metric tons of CO2 emissions Tyler Puls Energy & Environmental Specialist, DMPS See Full Case Study prev next Related resources Related Resources blog Preparedness in Energy Management: Part 1 5 minutes Here at Brightly, we recently wrapped up our annual user conference. It is always an engaging and insightful time with... Read Now blog Cybersecurity and CMMS 7 minutes The Case for Security Would you be comfortable knowing that complete strangers were wandering around your yard and inside your... Read Now Infographic Optimize Operations with Mobile CMMS How can a CMMS mobile app boost your efficiency and effectiveness with maintenance operations? Visualize your success with this infographic. Read Now 1 2 3 See All Resources See all resources Ready to see what smart asset management can do for you? Let us show you how Brightly can light the way to a bright future. Request a demo Meet Brightly CTA navigation Request a Demo Contact Sales Footer menu Solutions Maintenance & Operations Enterprise Asset Management Strategy & Capital Planning Community Engagement Sustainability & Energy Smart Automation Products Asset Essentials Energy Manager Event Manager Predictor SmartGov TheWorxHub Assetic (AUS) Confirm (UK) Industries Education Government Healthcare Senior Living Manufacturing Clubs & Associations Why Brightly? Client Services Implementation Professional Services Data Intelligence Technology & Security Resources Library Success Stories Webinars Blog Company About Culture Leadership Partners News Careers © Copyright 2022 Brightly Software, Inc. Social LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Footer Utility Terms of Use Sitemap Privacy Policy Global United Kingdom