Sign Up Log In Search Search Clemson Events › Event Details ServSafe Food Protection Manager Certification Training + Exam - Lexington County The ServSafe® Food Protection Manager Certification Course: • One day review course using ServSafe® materials from the National Restaurant Association (NRA). • Taught by Clemson University Food Safety and Nutrition Experts who are certified ServSafe® Instructors with the NRA. • Course concludes with the ServSafe® Certification Exam. • Successful completion of the course and certification exam meets DHEC requirements for “Certified Food Protection Manager” under federal guidelines outlined in 2-102.12(B) of the FDA Food Code. • ServSafe® Manager Certification from the National Restaurant Association will be mailed to participants upon successful completion of the course and certification exam. The certification is valid for five years. • Cost of the course covers the exam and exam answer sheet. The book is not included in the price of the training + exam. • Course book: ServSafe® Manager Book 7th Edition, ISBN#: 0134812352, should be purchased before coming to the course. (Available through Amazon or directly through ServSafe.) • Participants should bring the course book with them on the day of training. • Course topics include: Challenges to Food Safety, Microbiology, Contamination, Allergens, Food Safety Systems, The Flow of Food, Maintaining Sanitary Facilities and Equipment, Pest Management and Employee Training. • A confirmation e-mail will be sent to you prior to the scheduled date of the training. Please bring a photo ID the day of class. Price includes lunch and snacks. Friday, June 10 at 8:30am to 6:30pm Lexington County Extension Office 605 W Main St, Suite F, Lexington, SC 29072 Notice of Non-Discrimination Event Type Cooperative Extension Target Audience General Public Departments Cooperative Extension Service, Food Systems and Safety, Statewide, ServSafe®, Lexington Website http://www.clemson.edu/food/servsafe Cost $150.00 Contact Name: Frances Seel Contact Phone: 864-646-2166 Contact Email: cesfsn@clemson.edu Notes: Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. If you need special accommodations due to a disability in order to participate in a class, please notify Samantha Houston at 803-359-8515, not less than a week prior to class. Subscribe Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Buy Tickets Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested (4) Getting Here <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> You're not going yet! This event requires registration. Buy Tickets Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2020 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson Login to Clemson University Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with Clemson ID Login with Facebook Login with Google Login with LinkedIn