Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Login Submit an Event View my Events Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Events Calendar « All Events This event has passed. Final Bell Party May 6 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm Free Save the date! Graduates and their families are invited to join the TU Alumni Association and the Future Alumni Council for Final Bell, the annual bell-ringing party that celebrates the newest members of the TU Alumni Association. Stay tuned for more details about this beloved TU tradition that includes a champagne toast and a photographer at Kendall Bell to capture your entry to the Alumni Association! Registration will not be required for this year’s event. Please contact the TU Office of Alumni Engagement at tualumni@utulsa.edu or 918-631-2555 with questions about the Final Bell Party. More information about TU commencement can be found at utulsa.edu/commencement/. + Google Calendar+ Add to iCalendar Details Date: May 6 Time: 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm Cost: Free Event Categories: Alumni, Commencement, Social Gathering Website: https://www.tualumni.com/s/1174/bp20/wide.aspx?sid=1174&gid=1&pgid=5715&cid=9328&ecid=9328&crid=0&calpgid=13&calcid=664 Organizer TU Alumni Association Phone: 918-631-2555 Email: tualumni@utulsa.edu Website: TUAlumni.com Venue Bayless Plaza 800 South Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 United States + Google Map « Baccalaureate Service and Luncheon Softball: Tulsa vs. East Carolina » 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT