By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Search people (directory) Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map Campus Shuttle History News & Magazine Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Sport & Human Performance Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Give Calendar Events May. 31, 2022 BioInspired Seminar: How Vimentin Regulates Cell Signaling and Controls Matrix Remodeling About Admissions Academics Life Athletics Science and Mathematics BioInspired Seminar: How Vimentin Regulates Cell Signaling and Controls Matrix Remodeling May 31, 2022 at 11:00am – 12:00pm EDT Bowne Hall, 414 and Virtual (See event details) This event has already occurred. The information may no longer be valid. The Mechanics of Disease and Development focus group presents: Professor Christopher McCulloch and Dr. Zofia Ostrowska, University of Toronto “How vimentin Regulates Cell Signaling and Controls Matrix Remodeling” The expression of the intermediate filament protein, vimentin, is a widely recognized marker of fibroblasts and of epithelial-mesenchymal transition. But it is not understood how vimentin affects signaling that contributes to cell migration and the remodeling of the extracellular matrix. We will consider how specific properties of vimentin, and its ability to bind critical proteins that control cell attachment to the underlying matrix, and regulate mesenchymal cell migration and remodeling of the matrix by resident fibroblasts. To register to attend by Zoom, please use this link. This event was first published on May 19, 2022 and last updated on May 24, 2022. Event Details Link Category Science and Mathematics Type Lectures and Seminars Region Hybrid Campus and Virtual Open to Faculty & Staff, Graduate & Professional Students Groups BioInspired, College of Arts and Sciences, College of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) Organizers BioInspired: Development and Disease, CAS-Department of Physics Contact Dr. Alison Patteson aepattes@syr.edu Accessibility Contact Dr. Alison Patteson to request accommodations Map and Location Bowne Hall, 414 120 Sims Dr. Syracuse, NY 13210 View larger map Add to Calendar Download event details [ICS, 3KB] Add to Google Calendar Related Events Soft Matter and Biophysics Seminar | Length control of long cell protrusions: rulers, timers and transport June 10, 2022 at 11:00am – 12:00pm Demystifying Light Microscopy with the SU Blatt Imaging Center June 29, 2022 – July 1, 2022 Bioinspired Institute First Annual Symposium October 7, 2022 at 9:30am – 4:00pm Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Find People (Directory) Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Website Feedback Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard Student Email Faculty & Staff Email Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Like Syracuse on Facebook Follow Syracuse on Twitter Subscribe to Syracuse on YouTube Follow Syracuse on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy