Skip to Main Content Skip to main content University of Kansas logo Libraries University of Kansas KU Libraries Calendar Your browser has javascript disabled. Without javascript some functions will not work. KU Libraries - Study Room Reservations Group study rooms are available to reserve in the locations listed below. If you have any questions, please contact our friendly service desk staff at the location. Anschutz Study Rooms Art & Architecture Study Room Music Library Group Study Rooms Watson Group Study Rooms Powered by Springshare. All rights reserved. Report a tech support issue. Login to LibApps Cymraeg English español français Irish 日本語 Nihongo slovenski jezik Tiếng Việt 中文 Zhōngwén University of Kansas Libraries 1425 Jayhawk Blvd Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Contact Libraries 785-864-8983 Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Libraries website feedback. KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.