Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up NC State University Calendar Wednesday, June 1 Dean of CALS Committee Meeting Clear message Dean of CALS Committee Meeting Wednesday, June 1, 2022 2 pm to 4 pm I'm Interested Share Dean of CALS Committee Meeting Share Dean of CALS Committee Meeting on Facebook Share Dean of CALS Committee Meeting on Twitter Share Dean of CALS Committee Meeting on LinkedIn I'm Interested About this Event Virtual Event View stream information Add to calendar Add to calendar The nomination committee for the dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences position will hold a committee meeting. Agenda items include reviewing additional applicants, selecting candidates for virtual first-round interviews (if applicable) and reviewing the interview guide. Public participation is welcome during the open session. Hide stream Show stream Dial-In Information The meeting will be held virtually. You can join by calling 470-250-9358 or clicking the "Join Meeting" link. The meeting ID is 921 1973 9848, and the passcode is 682460. Event Details Event Type Meetings and Conferences Department College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, University Human Resources EVENT COORDINATOR In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, NC State will honor requests for reasonable accommodations made by individuals with disabilities. Direct accommodation requests to: Marjorie Bernardin, executive search specialist in University Human Resources, at mbernar@ncsu.edu. 0 people are interested in this event I'm Interested NC State University Calendar Event Types Academic Calendar Community Events Exhibitions Films Lectures and Talks Meetings and Conferences Performances Red and White Week Student Life Tours Workshops and Training Topic Arts and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Global Health and Wellness Scholarship and Research Service Social and Entertainment Student Recruitment and Admissions Sustainability Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan CAMPUS MAP © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. NC State University Calendar Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in or Log in with Unity ID I forgot my password I don't have an account yet