Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Search Search Log In University of Oregon Events › Event Details Let's Talk - Confidential One-on-Ones Tuesday, May 31 at 10:00am to 12:00pm More dates through June 6, 2022 Wednesday, June 1 at 2:00pm to 6:00pm Thursday, June 2 at 2:00pm to 6:00pm Friday, June 3 at 1:00pm to 3:00pm Monday, June 6 at 3:00pm to 5:00pm See multiple satellite locations in description or website Let’s Talk is a service that provides easy access to free, informal, and confidential one-on-one consultation with a Counseling Services staff member. See our website for six additional Let’s Talk days/times offered throughout the week. Let’s Talk is especially helpful for students who: Have a specific concern and would like to consult with someone about it. Would like on-the-spot consultation rather than ongoing counseling. Would like to consult with a CS staff member about what actual therapy looks like. Would like to meet with one of our CS identity-based specialists. Have a concern about a friend or family member and would like some ideas about what to do. How does Let’s Talk work? Let’s Talk will be offered via Zoom and/or in satellite locations across campus. As a drop-in service, there is no need to schedule an appointment and no paperwork to be completed. Students are seen individually on a first-come, first-served basis at the times listed below. There may be a wait in the Zoom waiting room if the Let’s Talk staff member is meeting with another student. Please wait and we will be with you as soon as we can. Let’s Talk appointments are brief (usually between 15-30 minutes) and are meant to be used on an as-needed basis. Mondays 3-5PM - Meet with Jingqing Liu, who specializes in working with international students. Click here: https://zoom.us/j/99378816150 Tuesdays 10AM-12PM - Meet with Carolyn Meiller, who specializes in working with LGBTQ students, at the Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence (Oregon Hall-Room 130) or click here: https://zoom.us/j/99147472563. Wednesdays 2-4PM - Meet with Cecile Gadson, who specializes in working with Black and African American students, at the Black Cultural Center. Wednesdays 4-6PM - Meet with Caryn Zaner, who specializes in working with graduate students and queer, trans, and gender non-conforming students. Click here: https://zoom.us/j/92314812010 Thursdays 2-4PM - Meet with Eric Garcia, who specializes in working with LatinX and undocumented students, at the Multicultural Center (EMU 109m) or click here: https://zoom.us/j/96120855580 Thursdays 4-6PM - Meet with Kristen Besler at Global Scholars Hall (Room 103) or click here: https://zoom.us/j/92058889528 Fridays 1-3PM - Meet with Mariko Lin at the Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence (Oregon Hall-Room 130) or click here: https://zoom.us/j/92243720320 Event Type Wellness, Free, Mental Health, Self Care, Prevention, Stress Less Departments Division of Student Life, Division of Student Services and Enrollment Management, University Counseling Center, Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement, University Health Center, Division of Equity and Inclusion, Office of the Dean of Students, Fraternity & Sorority Life, Parent & Family Programs, College of Arts & Sciences, Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success, Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center, Asian Studies, Indigenous, Race, and Ethnic Studies, Academic Advising, Duck Nest, The Duck Nest, Native American Studies, Prevention Services, Off-Campus Living, Athletics, Erb Memorial Union (EMU), University Housing, Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence (CMAE), LGBTESSP, Nontraditional Student Programs, Student Veterans, Women's Center, Men's Resource Center, ASUO, Graduate School, Clark Honors College, Division of Global Engagement, International Students, Global Education Oregon (GEO) Study Abroad, Mills Center, Center for Latino/a and Latin American Studies, Office of Admissions, African Studies, East Asian Languages and Literature, Psychology, Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, College of Education, Department of Counseling Psychology and Human Services, Lundquist College of Business, Craft Center, School of Law, Student Orientation Programs, First Year Programs, Accessible Education Center, Family Housing, Multicultural Center (MCC), Center for Student Involvement, HEDCO, Student Organization, IMPACT, Multicultural Education Student Engagement and Success, Moss Street Children's Center, Sexual Violence Prevention & Education (SVPE), American English Institute (AEI), Black Cultural Center (BCC), Romance Languages, Spanish, Spanish Heritage Language (SHL), Black Studies, Substance Abuse Prevention & Education (SAPE) Target Audience All Students, Residence Halls, Graduate Students, New Students Website https://counseling.uoregon.edu/letstalk Subscribe Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested No activity yet This event content is powered by the Localist Community Event Platform. Login to University of Oregon Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with Duck ID