Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Events Calendar Webmail Search FSU Navigation FSU Sites Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Events Calendar Log in Search Search Florida State University Calendar › Events Google Calendar iCal Outlook RSS Events May 31 - June 29, 2022 Tuesday, May 31 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Cai, Jinglun Manuscript Title: TWO TOPICS IN DEEP LEARNING BASED DIALOGUE SYSTEMS Committee Co-Chairs: Kercheval, Alec Liu, Xiuwen 9am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Free Microsoft Training for Faculty, Staff and... FSU Information Technology Services is excited to announce a new partnership with Microsoft that brings free, live training classes to FSU students, faculty,... 11am, 3pm Virtual Event Microsoft Whiteboard Level 100 Microsoft Whiteboard is the collaborative digital canvas in Microsoft 365 for effective meetings and engaging learning. Use Microsoft Whiteboard tools to... 11am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - White, Kristopher Manuscript Title: COLLEGIATE SPORT AS BIOPOLITICAL DISPOSITIF: EXCAVATING BLACK COLLEGIATE ATHLETES’ EDUCATIONAL EXPERIENCES Committee Chair: Newman, Joshua 12pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Travel Office Hours - Concur (Zoom Session) Open Zoom to ask questions about travel or Concur. Additional Resources: http://controller.vpfa.fsu.edu/concur 1:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Free Microsoft Training for Faculty, Staff and... FSU Information Technology Services is excited to announce a new partnership with Microsoft that brings free, live training classes to FSU students, faculty,... 3pm Virtual Event Work Opportunities for Current F-1 Students:... Learn about on-campus employment, Career Center resources, Curricular Practical Training (CPT), and other work options permitted under F-1 status. We will... 4:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested AANHPI Heritage Month Webinar- Future of... Dr. Jing Wang, Florida State University College of Nursing Dean and Asian American Pacific Islander Nurses Association President will be cohosting a webinar... 5pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dr. Ieva Birka, “Harnessing the Economic... Dr. Ieva Birka, who is completing a project at the University of Latvia titled “Harnessing the Economic Potential of the Diaspora,” returns to her hometown... 6pm Florida State University Panama City, St. Joe Community Foundation Lecture Hall in the Holley Academic Center, 4750 Collegiate Drive. Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Jack Box Bonanza Have what it takes to garner a laugh and be a gamer? Join and inquire with Game Committee to get ready for the upcoming semesters! 8:30pm Askew Student Life Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Jackbox Bonanza Have what it takes to garner a laugh and be a gamer? Join and inquire with Game Committee to get ready for the upcoming semesters! 8:30pm Askew Student Life Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday, June 1 Campus Deadline - Fulbright Pre-Application Sponsored by the U.S. Department of State, the Fulbright US Student Program is the largest U.S. international exchange program. Fulbright funds yearlong... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Donald J. Weidner Summer for Undergraduates... This program brings undergraduate students from throughout the country together in-person for a month-long immersion into legal study. The largest and oldest... Watch ThisI'm Interested FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested First Day of LGBTQ+ Pride Month Observance To hide observances, go to Google Calendar Settings > Holidays in United States Watch ThisI'm Interested First Day of LGBTQ+ Pride Month Watch ThisI'm Interested SUG 2022 - Day One Seas the First Day! The Frother's Daughter Specialty Coffie Break!Land Ho! Optional First Day Law School ToursAttendance Check-InWelcome Aboard! Program... 8am Watch ThisI'm Interested Campus Connect 101 (CC101) Introduction to Campus Connect, Notes, Reports, Advance Search. Course objectives: identify main tabs and side menu pertaining to student data; create... 9am, 3pm Virtual Event Dissertation Defense - Huang, Yao Manuscript Title: EXPLORING MOBILE PERFORMANCE SUPPORT SYSTEMS IN THE WORKFORCE Committee Chair: Klein, James 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Q&A with SG&A Accounting Weekly drop-in sessions to help student leaders with SG&A accounting and financial processes. 10:30am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested MS-BA Orientation Lunch The college is hosting an welcome lunch for incoming MS-BA students to meet faculty and staff associated with the program. 12pm Rovetta Business Building (RBB), RBB 220 (Weichelt Lounge) Watch ThisI'm Interested Thesis Defense - Marsh, Carolyn Manuscript Title: The Relation between Executive Functions, Error-related Brain Activity, and ADHD Symptoms Committee Chair: Kofler, Michael J 1pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Campus Connect 101 (CC101) Introduction to Campus Connect, Notes, Reports, Advance Search. Course objectives: identify main tabs and side menu pertaining to student data; create... 3pm Virtual Event Thesis Defense - Tibedo, Vanessa P Manuscript Title: EXPLORING RHETORICAL CONSEQUENCES OF MIXED RACE IDENTITY IN NINETEENTH CENTURY US SOCIETY Committee Chair: Lathan, Rhea Estelle 3:30pm Williams Building (WMS), 222-F Watch ThisI'm Interested Manuscript Clearance Workshop This workshop is recommended for all thesis, dissertation, and treatise-track graduate students at least one semester prior to intended defense, but students... 5:30pm Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Dance Theatre of Harlem Dance Theatre of Harlem is a leading dance institution of unparalleled global acclaim. The company tours nationally and internationally, presenting a... 7:30pm Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Student Senate Meetings The Senate meets every other Wednesday on a monthly basis during Summer semester to vote on proposals and other matters as submitted by its committees and... 7:30pm HCB Classroom Building (HCB), 205 Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Gaming Trivia Night Come join us as we put on a fantastical game of trivia to cover your favorite gaming topics!. 8:30pm Askew Student Life Building (SLB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Trivia Night Come join us as we put on a fantastical game of trivia to cover your favorite gaming topics!. 8:30pm Askew Student Life Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Thursday, June 2 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Faculty Summer Workshop Session: Professor... Professor Michael Morley will lead a faculty workshop on his latest research and forthcoming projects. Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Rosano, Eric D Manuscript Title: Industry Clustering and Accounting Information Quality Committee Chair: Blay, Allen D 9am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Florida Virtual Statewide Job Fair Jump-start your job search at the Virtual Statewide Job Fair on June 2, 2022! This is an exclusive recruitment event open only to students and alumni from... 9am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested SUG 2022 - Day Two Attendance Check-InInculsion & Civility in Law School and the Profession Learning to Read the Wind: Why Law?Lunch BreakLawyers as Leaders (Class #2) 9am Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Hu, Tianqi Manuscript Title: Measurements of $\gamma p\rightarrow p\eta$ Differential Cross Sections and $\gamma p\rightarrow p\omega$ Differential Cross Sections and... 1pm Keen Building (KEN), 319 Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Family Medical Leave Act (COFML1) Provides an overview of the FMLA of 1993 and strategies on how to manage employees who are on FMLA leave. This course also counts toward the Frontline... 2:30pm Virtual Event Summer Band performance https://fsu-college-of-music.gofmx.com/scheduling/requests/2402047/occurrences/5705189 Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting... 7:30pm Owen Sellers Amphitheatre (OMH) Watch ThisI'm Interested Summer Band performance Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting College of Music Concert Season, visit us at music.fsu.edu Dates, locations and times... 7:30pm Opperman Music Hall (OMH) Really Virtual Reality! Try out the future and hop into our state of the art VR headset. Take on our vast selection of VR games and see what it's like! 8:30pm Askew Student Life Building (SLB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Really Virtual Reality! Try out the future and hop into our state of the art VR headset. Take on our vast selection of VR games and see what it's like! 8:30pm Askew Student Life Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Friday, June 3 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Last Day to Submit Waivers/Billings for... Prorated 7th Week Deadline for Summer Session F For additional information regarding deadlines based on the end of the seventh week of classes, please reference the summer academic calendar. Dissertation Defense - Rooney, Timothy J Manuscript Title: Essays in Development Economics Committee Co-Chairs: Kantor, Shawn Kitchens, Carl 9am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Ward, Savanna K Manuscript Title: Sport Psychology Graduate Students' Experiences with Supervision Training Committee Chair: Eccles, David William 9am Stone Building (STB), 3208 Watch ThisI'm Interested Bridging Cultures III (CSMIC1) Managing Intercultural Conflict - This workshop will introduce participants to various styles of intercultural conflict management and negotiation processes.... 9:30am Virtual Event Dissertation Defense - Wade, Taryn Manuscript Title: THE EFFECTS OF SHARED READING ON THE GEOMETRY VOCABULARY KNOWLEDGE OF PRESCHOOL CHILDREN AT RISK FOR LANGUAGE DELAYS Committee Chair: ... 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Wang, Jingfang Manuscript Title: TWO ESSAYS ON CORPORATE FINANCE Committee Chair: Ang, James S 10am Rovetta Building Annex (RBA), 320 Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Wang, Min Manuscript Title: “WALK OUT” OR “STAY STUCK”: EDUCATION AND SOCIAL MOBILITY OF A RURAL VILLAGE COHORT IN CHINA Committee Chair: Zuilkowski, Stephanie Simmons 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested SUG 2022 - Day Three Retreat at the Rez 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested How to Write a Bar Essay This is a Spear the Bar session on how to write a bar essay to prepare graduates for the Florida Bar exam. 11am Main Classroom Building (Law School) (LAW), 103 Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 10am FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested FSU Student Veteran Center - First Friday Feast Student Veterans, Veteran Liaisons, Veteran Faculty/Staff and Veteran alumni, join us for a casual lunch and meet other veterans. 11:30am FSU Career Center, Room 2201 Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Block, Carly J Manuscript Title: The Light and Dark Side of Positional Indispensability: Understanding the Relationship Among Goalkeepers, Indispensability, and... 1:30pm Stone Building (STB), 3203 Watch ThisI'm Interested Manuscript Clearance Workshop This workshop is recommended for all thesis, dissertation, and treatise-track graduate students at least one semester prior to intended defense, but students... 2:30pm Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Honors in the Major Defense Announcement Form... Within the first four weeks of the defense semester, students must schedule the day, time, and location of their defense and get it approved by the full... 4:30pm Virtual Event International Coffee Hour Join the Center for Global Engagement every Friday classes are in session from 5-6:30 p.m. in The Globe for refreshments from a featured culture and... 5pm Global and Multicultural Engagement Building (GME), The Globe Dining Room Watch ThisI'm Interested Student Veteran Center - Top Gun Social Student Veteran Center Social 5pm Harry's Seafood Bar and Grill Watch ThisI'm Interested Student Veteran Center - Top Gun Movie Preview The first 20 current student veterans to register receives a free ticket! 7pm Challenger IMAX Theatre Watch ThisI'm Interested Saturday, June 4 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested INFINITY CON TALLAHASSEE! The family-friendly comic book convention is back and better than ever in the Capital City this summer. On June 4th and 5th, Infinity Con will bring their... 10am Tucker Civic Center (CIV) Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Sunday, June 5 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested INFINITY CON TALLAHASSEE! The family-friendly comic book convention is back and better than ever in the Capital City this summer. On June 4th and 5th, Infinity Con will bring their... 10am Tucker Civic Center (CIV) Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Askew Student Life Building (SLB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Monday, June 6 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested FSU Summer Art Classes The FSU Saturday School and Summer Workshops are run by a group of faculty and students at FSU in the art education department! Our mission is to facilitate... 8:30am William Johnston Building Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Campus Connect 201 (CC201) Campaigns Campaigns. Course objectives: set up availability; identify reasons for a campaign; craft an effective message for a campaign; use appropriate naming... 9am Virtual Event SUG 2022 - Day Four Attendance Check-InIntroduction to Group Projects & ResourcesLunch BreakLawyers as Leaders (Class #3) 9:15am Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Challenger, Alexandra Manuscript Title: Printing the Cosmos: Images, Readers, and Mathematics in Peter Apian's Instrumental Texts Committee Chair: Leitch, Stephanie A. 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Finet, Alexis Manuscript Title: FROM INDÉPENDANCE CHA-CHA TO LE JOUR D’APRÈS: LIQUID SOUNDS IN A PHONOLOGICAL /KONGO/ AS SEEN THROUGH THE WORKS OF POST-INDEPENDENCE... 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Nelzen, John A Manuscript Title: The German Navy in War and Revolution Committee Chair: Grant, Jonathan A. 10am Bellamy Building (BEL), 404 Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Q&A with SG&A Accounting Weekly drop-in sessions to help student leaders with SG&A accounting and financial processes. 1:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Carstens, Jacob D Manuscript Title: The Sensitivity of Convective Self-Aggregation and Tropical Cyclogenesis to Planetary Rotation Committee Chair: Wing, Allison 3:30pm Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences Building (EOA), 1044 Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Askew Student Life Building (SLB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Tuesday, June 7 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Faculty Summer Workshop Session: Professor... Professor Elissa Gentry will lead a faculty workshop on her latest research and forthcoming projects. Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested FSU Summer Art Classes The FSU Saturday School and Summer Workshops are run by a group of faculty and students at FSU in the art education department! Our mission is to facilitate... 8:30am William Johnston Building Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Manuscript Clearance Workshop This workshop is recommended for all thesis, dissertation, and treatise-track graduate students at least one semester prior to intended defense, but students... 9:30am Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested SUG 2022 - Day Five Lawyers & LattesLunch BreakLawyers as Leaders (Class #4) 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested Free Microsoft Training for Faculty, Staff and... FSU Information Technology Services is excited to announce a new partnership with Microsoft that brings free, live training classes to FSU students, faculty,... 11am, 3pm Virtual Event Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Travel Office Hours - Concur (Zoom Session) Open Zoom to ask questions about travel or Concur. Additional Resources: http://controller.vpfa.fsu.edu/concur 1:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Free Microsoft Training for Faculty, Staff and... FSU Information Technology Services is excited to announce a new partnership with Microsoft that brings free, live training classes to FSU students, faculty,... 3pm Virtual Event Internship Fund Information Session This information session will cover the Internship Fund application process, review tips on submitting a compelling application, and answer general questions. 3pm Dunlap Success Center (DSC), 1006 Watch ThisI'm Interested Internship Fund Information Session The Career Center’s Internship Fund provides financial support to students pursuing experiential learning opportunities. Any single-semester paid or unpaid... 3pm Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Microsoft 365 Accessibility: Creating... There is no limit to what people can achieve when technology reflects the diversity of all who use it. This course shows how people at school and work can... 3pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Optional Practical Training (OPT) Workshop for... Registration required: cge.fsu.edu/register Multiple upcoming dates in-person: 5/18, 6/7, 7/14, 7/27, 8/9 And more on Zoom: 5/23, 6/22, 7/7, 8/4 All F-1... 4pm Global and Multicultural Engagement Building (GME), 2300 Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Askew Student Life Building (SLB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday, June 8 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested FSU Summer Art Classes The FSU Saturday School and Summer Workshops are run by a group of faculty and students at FSU in the art education department! Our mission is to facilitate... 8:30am William Johnston Building Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Conflict Communication Skills (PDCCS1) Conflict is unavoidable. And though it can cause damage if handled poorly, if handled well it can actually strengthen your workplace, your relationships,... 9am Stadium Place - Training Center (L45), Room 205/209 Microsoft Excel I (PDXLS1) Microsoft Excel I is designed to be an introductory course to using the basic features of Microsoft Excel. Some of the topics covered include the functions... 9am University Center - Building A (UCA), 1203 SUG 2022 - Day Six Attendance Check-InVisit to Florida Supreme Court30 Years of SUG Luncheon with Wayne & Pat HoganLawyers as Leaders (Class #5)Afternoon Tea with Dean B 9:30am Watch ThisI'm Interested Q&A with SG&A Accounting Weekly drop-in sessions to help student leaders with SG&A accounting and financial processes. 10:30am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Gabriel, Ivory M Manuscript Title: An Exploration of Black Male Teachers and their Career Decisions in the K-12 Public School System Committee Chair: Beatty, Cameron 1pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday Book Club Discussion Join us for a discussion of The Four Winds by Kristin Hannah. Meeting may be via Zoom or in person, depending on decision by members. New members welcome;... 4pm, 7pm TBD Watch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday Book Club Discussion Join us for a discussion of The Four Winds by Kristin Hannah. Meeting may be via Zoom or in person, depending on decision by members. New members welcome;... 7pm TBD Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Askew Student Life Building (SLB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Thursday, June 9 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Faculty Summer Workshop Session: Professor... Professor Tahirih Lee will lead a faculty workshop on her latest research and forthcoming projects. Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Last Day to Request Change to or Cancellation... FSU Summer Art Classes The FSU Saturday School and Summer Workshops are run by a group of faculty and students at FSU in the art education department! Our mission is to facilitate... 8:30am William Johnston Building Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested SUG 2022 - Day Seven Visit to the Florida CapitolLunch BreakLawyers as Leaders (Class #6) 8:30am Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Hunter, Britt Manuscript Title: The Wellcome Apocalypse: Innovating Pictorial Traditions in the Ordinatio of a Late Medieval Multi-Text Manuscript Committee Co-Chairs: ... 10am Johnston Building (WJB), Dept. Conference Room Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Kaminski, Sonya M Manuscript Title: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CHILDHOOD TRAUMA AND ACADEMIC FUNCTIONING: THE INFLUENCE OF SOCIAL SUPPORT AS A PROTECTIVE FACTOR Committee... 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Gardiner, James T Manuscript Title: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONING AND ADAPTIVE SKILLS ACROSS AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER BEHAVIORS Committee Chair: Jenkins,... 12:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Manuscript Clearance Workshop This workshop is recommended for all thesis, dissertation, and treatise-track graduate students at least one semester prior to intended defense, but students... 1pm Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested OMNI e-Recruit (BTREC1) Trains HR representatives on how to successfully manage and administer the OMNI recruiting module for faculty, staff and OPS. Participants will create,... 1pm Virtual Event Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Askew Student Life Building (SLB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Friday, June 10 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Prorated 12th Week Deadline for Summer Session A For additional information regarding deadlines based on the end of the twelfth week of classes, please reference the summer academic calendar. FSU Summer Art Classes The FSU Saturday School and Summer Workshops are run by a group of faculty and students at FSU in the art education department! Our mission is to facilitate... 8:30am William Johnston Building Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested SUG 2022 - Day Eight Admissions Bootcamp: Part 1Lunch BreakAdmissions Bootcamp: Part 2 9:30am Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Augustyniak, Ryan Manuscript Title: A World of Her Own Unmaking: Edwidge Danticat and the Poetics of Abolition Committee Chair: Munro, Martin 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Stalpes, Kye Manuscript Title: A Galaxy in a Box: Understanding the Universe through Numerical Simulations. Committee Chair: Collins, David C. 11am Keen Building (KEN), 623 Watch ThisI'm Interested Florida Homestead This is a Spear the Bar session on Florida homestead to prepare graduates for the Florida Bar exam. 11am Main Classroom Building (Law School) (LAW), 103 Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 10am FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested College of Social Work Alumni Lunch Join the CSW at the NASW-FL conference in Orlando for an Alumni Lunch! RSVP is required to attend. 12pm Buca di Beppo RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Let's Talk Credit (FLSLTC) Get a boost in your credit knowledge. Join our Understanding Credit Workshop and learn about credit and how it may help you reach your goals. This financial... 12pm Virtual Event Thesis Defense - Roberts, Laylah A Manuscript Title: EXCAVATIONS FROM 17TH AND 18TH-CENTURY HOUSES: A STUDY OF ARTIFACTS OF PERSONAL ADORNMENT AND DRESS FROM SPANISH COLONIAL MISSION SAN LUIS... 12pm Carraway Building (CAR), 104 Watch ThisI'm Interested Omni e-Recruit Express Pool Hiring 101 (BTREC2) Express Pool Hiring 101 - Learn how to use the OPS Express, GA Express, and Faculty OPS Express methods for hiring. View Registration and Cancellation... 1pm Virtual Event International Coffee Hour Join the Center for Global Engagement every Friday classes are in session from 5-6:30 p.m. in The Globe for refreshments from a featured culture and... 5pm Global and Multicultural Engagement Building (GME), The Globe Dining Room Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Flee (2021) celebrate pride month at the SLC with Flee! Flee tells the story of Amin Nawabi as he grapples with a painful secret he has kept hidden for 20 years, one... 8:30pm Askew Student Life Building (SLB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Saturday, June 11 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Sunday, June 12 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Scream (2022) Return to the world of Wes Kraven's iconic "Scream" franchise for a REqeul! Twenty-five years after a streak of brutal murders shocked the quiet town of... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Monday, June 13 Dissertation Format Review Last day to submit doctoral dissertation or treatise for pre-defense format review. FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested FSU Summer Art Classes The FSU Saturday School and Summer Workshops are run by a group of faculty and students at FSU in the art education department! Our mission is to facilitate... 8:30am William Johnston Building Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Introduction to University Accounting (BTAC01) This course is for users who are new to the OMNI Financials system or university accounting. Participants will learn about OMNI Financials, how money flows... 9am Stadium Place - Training Center (L45), 205 SUG 2022 - Day Nine Criminal Procedure (Class #1)Lunch BreakLSAT Introduction 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested OLLI Monday Book Club OLLI Monday Book Club will meet via Zoom through the fall semester 2021. Please email nancyofarrell047@gmail.com to be added to the list and to receive the... 11am Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Q&A with SG&A Accounting Weekly drop-in sessions to help student leaders with SG&A accounting and financial processes. 1:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Vaughn, Lori D Manuscript Title: Exploring the Relationship Between Student Engagement and Early Career Earnings in a Public University Committee Chair: Hu, Shouping 2pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Congress of Graduate Students Meetings Please join us for the COGS Assembly meeting. All business is due the Thursday before a meeting, and financial requests take up to two weeks to process... 6:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Congress of Graduate Students Meetings Please join us for the COGS Assembly meeting. All business is due the Thursday before a meeting, and financial requests take up to two weeks to process... 6:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Scream (2022) Return to the world of Wes Kraven's iconic "Scream" franchise for a REqeul! Twenty-five years after a streak of brutal murders shocked the quiet town of... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Tuesday, June 14 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Faculty Summer Workshop Session: Professor Erin... Professor Erin Ryan will lead a faculty workshop on her latest research and forthcoming projects. Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Flag Day Observance To hide observances, go to Google Calendar Settings > Holidays in United States Watch ThisI'm Interested FSU Summer Art Classes The FSU Saturday School and Summer Workshops are run by a group of faculty and students at FSU in the art education department! Our mission is to facilitate... 8:30am William Johnston Building Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Intermediate University Accounting (BTAC02) This course is for users who have completed Introduction to University Accounting (BTAC01) and are ready to learn more about general ledger account usage. A... 9am Dissertation Defense - Liu, Jingze Manuscript Title: The generalized data depth with modern statistics application Committee Chair: She, Yiyuan 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested SUG 2022 - Day Ten Criminal Procedure (Class #2)Lunch BreakLSAT Strategies Workshop #1 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Cory, Alexandra Beth Manuscript Title: Anaerobic Decomposition in a Subarctic Swedish Peatland Committee Chair: Chanton, Jeffrey P. 11am Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences Building (EOA), 5067 Watch ThisI'm Interested Free Microsoft Training for Faculty, Staff and... FSU Information Technology Services is excited to announce a new partnership with Microsoft that brings free, live training classes to FSU students, faculty,... 11am, 3pm Virtual Event Travel Expense & T-Card (BTTE03) Travel Expense & T-Card (BTTE03) This course trains travel representatives, Travel Card holders and approvers in the fundamentals of FSU's Travel policy and... 1pm Virtual Event Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Travel Office Hours - Concur (Zoom Session) Open Zoom to ask questions about travel or Concur. Additional Resources: http://controller.vpfa.fsu.edu/concur 1:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Campus Connect (CC301) Analytics and Dashboards Analytics and Dashboards. Objectives: Utilize Population Health Dashboards to identify student intervention opportunities; Generate platform reports that... 3pm Virtual Event Free Microsoft Training for Faculty, Staff and... FSU Information Technology Services is excited to announce a new partnership with Microsoft that brings free, live training classes to FSU students, faculty,... 3pm Virtual Event Microsoft 365 Accessibility: Low Vision Level 100 Learn about accessibility tools and features within Microsoft 365 for people who are color blind or have low vision. 3pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Scream (2022) Return to the world of Wes Kraven's iconic "Scream" franchise for a REqeul! Twenty-five years after a streak of brutal murders shocked the quiet town of... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday, June 15 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested OLLI TIMES FIRST NOTICE The OLLI TIMES deadline for article submission is the 25th at 5:00 p.m.! Send submissions to waas01@comcast.net. Watch ThisI'm Interested Summer Bucket Lists w/ FSU Libraries Get to know FSU Libraries & the Tallahassee Area as you cross off items from our "500 Days of Strozier" and "Dog Day @ Dirac" Summer Bucket Lists! The lists... Strozier Library, Inside the Main Entrance Watch ThisI'm Interested FSU Summer Art Classes The FSU Saturday School and Summer Workshops are run by a group of faculty and students at FSU in the art education department! Our mission is to facilitate... 8:30am William Johnston Building Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Microsoft Excel II (PDXLS2) Microsoft Excel II is designed for an intermediate user who is already familiar with basic formulas and functions (such as SUM and AVERAGE). This class... 9am University Center - Building A (UCA), 1203 Dissertation Defense - Ramirez Surmeier, Ladanya Manuscript Title: How are Florida colleges and universities “serving” Hispanic undergraduate students? – Testing a latent variable Committee Chair: ... 10am Bellamy Building (BEL), 519 Watch ThisI'm Interested SUG 2022 - Day Eleven Criminal Procedure (Class #3)Lunch BreakLSAT Strategies (Workshop #2 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested Q&A with SG&A Accounting Weekly drop-in sessions to help student leaders with SG&A accounting and financial processes. 10:30am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Manuscript Clearance Workshop This workshop is recommended for all thesis, dissertation, and treatise-track graduate students at least one semester prior to intended defense, but students... 11am Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested AIG Retirement Services: FRS & DROP... Provides information on the Florida Retirement System (FRS) and the Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP). Answers will be provided to five key questions... 12pm Virtual Event Internship Fund Information Session The Career Center’s Internship Fund provides financial support to students pursuing experiential learning opportunities. Any single-semester paid or unpaid... 12pm Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Wang, Yao Manuscript Title: Increasing throughput of hormone measurement from islets of Langerhans on microfluidic platforms Committee Chair: Roper, Michael Gabriel 3pm Chemical Sciences Laboratories (CSL), 1005 Watch ThisI'm Interested Fall 2022 Bess H. Ward Travel Grant Application... *Only University Honors Students are eligible for this award. This grant is awarded each semester to University Honors Program students. Only students who... 4pm Virtual Event Work Opportunities for Current F-1 Students:... Learn about on-campus employment, Career Center resources, Curricular Practical Training (CPT), and other work options permitted under F-1 status. We will... 4:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Scream (2022) Return to the world of Wes Kraven's iconic "Scream" franchise for a REqeul! Twenty-five years after a streak of brutal murders shocked the quiet town of... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Thursday, June 16 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Faculty Summer Workshop Session: Professors... Professors Mark Spottswood and Justin Sevier will lead a faculty workshop on their latest research and forthcoming projects. Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Residence Halls Open for Summer Session B Breakfast with Billy Student Veterans join SVC Director Billy Francis for a casual breakfast! 7am Maple Street Biscuit Company Watch ThisI'm Interested FSU Summer Art Classes The FSU Saturday School and Summer Workshops are run by a group of faculty and students at FSU in the art education department! Our mission is to facilitate... 8:30am William Johnston Building Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Stressed Out (PDSO01) Are you feeling “stressed-out”? We all deal with stressors in our lives, but too much stress can be very detrimental to our overall health—mentally,... 9am Stadium Place - Training Center (L45), 205 Sustainability and EDI (PDSUS1) Equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) is a core component of creating a more just and sustainable world. This course is designed to help us reframe our... 9:30am Stadium Place - Training Center (L45), 205 SUG 2022 - Day Twelve Criminal Procedure (Class #4)Lunch BreakNetworking Reception 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested Sexual Misconduct Awareness & Prevention... This course is for ALL employees and reviews FSU's stance on sexual misconduct at the University. It reviews the University's policy, as well as what... 10am Virtual Event Funding Your Graduate Education: Database Search Identifying prospective external funding opportunities is the first step to applying for fellowships and awards. In this interactive session you will learn... 10:30am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested AIG Retirement Services: Your Retirement Plan... With essential living expenses like housing, food, and fuel rising, you may be tempted to put off saving for your retirement. Don't miss "Your Retirement... 12pm Virtual Event First Day of Summer School Selfie Wall We'll have a "selfie wall" set up for students to take their "First Day of Summer School" photo. We'll have a QR code set up where they can sign up to... 12pm Strozier Library Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Bergholtz, Joel Manuscript Title: BIRTHERISM OF A NATION: RACIAL IDEOLOGIES AND ANTIRACIST STRATEGIES IN RESPONSE TO CIRCULATING MEDIA ARTIFACTS Committee Chair: Graban,... 12:30pm Williams Building (WMS), Skybox Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Summer Chorale performance Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting College of Music Concert Season, visit us at music.fsu.edu Dates, locations and times... 6pm Room 105 (HMU) Advocacy and Administration in a University... This will be the third lecture in the series titled, "Health Service Psychology: Practice, Research, and Advocacy". The lecture series is focused in these... 7pm Stone Building Watch ThisI'm Interested Honors Solo Recital - Choral Ensemble Camp Join us for the Honors Solo Recital featuring selected soloists from the 2022 Choral Ensemble Camp. 7pm Dohnányi Recital Hall (DRH) Summer Band Performance https://fsu-college-of-music.gofmx.com/scheduling/requests/2399859/occurrences/5697418 Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting... 7:30pm Owen Sellers Amphitheatre (OMH) Watch ThisI'm Interested Scream (2022) Return to the world of Wes Kraven's iconic "Scream" franchise for a REqeul! Twenty-five years after a streak of brutal murders shocked the quiet town of... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Friday, June 17 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Last Day of Classes for Summer Session A For additional information regarding deadlines associated with the last day of classes, please reference the Summer 2022 Academic Calendar. Prorated 12th Week Deadline for Summer Session F For additional information regarding deadlines based on the end of the twelfth week of classes, please reference the summer academic calendar. FSU Summer Art Classes The FSU Saturday School and Summer Workshops are run by a group of faculty and students at FSU in the art education department! Our mission is to facilitate... 8:30am William Johnston Building Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Summer MME Orientation https://fsu-college-of-music.gofmx.com/scheduling/requests/2391250/occurrences/5668694 9am Room 240 (KMU) Watch ThisI'm Interested Bridging Cultures IV (CSDGC1) Developing Global Competence & Lessons Learned This session will address the process of becoming more globally competent through the 6 stage developing... 9:30am Virtual Event Sustainability and EDI (PDSUS1) Equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) is a core component of creating a more just and sustainable world. This course is designed to help us reframe our... 9:30am Virtual Event Parent Engagement and Motivation to Change:... Join the CFC Center and FICW for this webinar on Parent Engagement and Motivation to Change: Tips for Practice. This webinar will explore how Motivational... 10am Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested SUG 2022 - Day Thirteen Group ProjectsLunch BreakGoup Projects 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested Barbri Simulated MBE This is a Spear the Bar session on Barbri simulated MBE to prepare graduates for the Florida Bar exam. 11am Main Classroom Building (Law School) (LAW), 103 Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 10am FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested International Coffee Hour Join the Center for Global Engagement every Friday classes are in session from 5-6:30 p.m. in The Globe for refreshments from a featured culture and... 5pm Global and Multicultural Engagement Building (GME), The Globe Dining Room Watch ThisI'm Interested CEC Small Ensembles Concert https://fsu-college-of-music.gofmx.com/scheduling/requests/2399014/occurrences/5696367 Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting... 7pm Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) Watch ThisI'm Interested Choral Ensembles Performance Join us for the ensembles performance featuring campers from the 2022 Treble Choir Camp and 2022 Choral Ensemble Camp. This concert with the will feature the... 7pm Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) Combos Concert - Jazz Ensemble Camp Join us for an exciting concert featuring the small combos from the 2022 Jazz Ensemble Camp. 7pm Dohnányi Recital Hall (DRH) JEC Combos Concert https://fsu-college-of-music.gofmx.com/scheduling/requests/2399015/occurrences/5696368 Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting... 7pm Dohnányi Recital Hall (DRH) Watch ThisI'm Interested Scream (2022) Return to the world of Wes Kraven's iconic "Scream" franchise for a REqeul! Twenty-five years after a streak of brutal murders shocked the quiet town of... 8:30pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Saturday, June 18 Drop/Add Opens for Summer Session B Drop/Add for Summer Session C runs from 06/18/22 at 12:01 a.m. through 06/23/22 at 11:59 p.m. FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Residence Halls Close for Summer Session A If enrolled for Summer Session A, please vacate your residence hall by noon today. Halls remain open for students enrolled in Summer Sessions A and C. CEC Final Concert https://fsu-college-of-music.gofmx.com/scheduling/requests/2399016/occurrences/5696369 Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting... 9am Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) Watch ThisI'm Interested Choir Concert Join us for the final performance of the 2022 Treble Choir Camp and the 2022 Choral Ensemble Camp. This combined concert will feature the Mixed Choir,... 9am Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) JEC Final Concert https://fsu-college-of-music.gofmx.com/scheduling/requests/2399017/occurrences/5696370 Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting... 1pm Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Sunday, June 19 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Father's Day Watch ThisI'm Interested Father's Day Observance To hide observances, go to Google Calendar Settings > Holidays in United States Watch ThisI'm Interested Father's Day Watch ThisI'm Interested Father's Day Watch ThisI'm Interested Juneteenth Watch ThisI'm Interested Juneteenth Public holiday Watch ThisI'm Interested Juneteenth Watch ThisI'm Interested Juneteenth Watch ThisI'm Interested Monday, June 20 Day off for Juneteenth Public holiday Watch ThisI'm Interested FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Juneteenth (substitute) Public holiday Watch ThisI'm Interested OLLI TIMES FINAL NOTICE! OLLI TIMES deadline for article submission is the 25th at 5:00 p.m.! Send submissions to waas01@comcast.net. Watch ThisI'm Interested Classes Begin for Summer Session B Classes begin for Summer Session B. The last day of classes is July 29, 2022. 8am First Day to Apply for Financial Aid Deferments... Financial aid is available from the fifth-day disbursement of state aid via EFT. Please note that deposit-processing time varies by bank, and some banks... 8am Late Registration Opens for Summer Session B Late Registration runs through 06/23/22. A $100 late fee applies. 8am SUG 2022 - Day Fourteen Criminal Procedure (Class #5)Lunch BreakLeadership Panel 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Dischman, Theodore Manuscript Title: THREE EXPERIMENTS ON GROUP IDENTITY IN ECONOMICS Committee Chair: Boosey, Luke Anthony 10:30am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Miller, Maritza Manuscript Title: Exploring The Relationships Among Risky Behavior, School Connectedness, And Parental Connectedness in African American... 12:30pm Stone Building (STB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Miller, Maritza Manuscript Title: Exploring The Relationships Among Risky Behavior, School Connectedness, And Parental Connectedness in African American... 12:30pm Stone Building (STB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Q&A with SG&A Accounting Weekly drop-in sessions to help student leaders with SG&A accounting and financial processes. 1:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Residence Hall Floor Meetings Meet your RA and other members of your community at your Welcome Home floor meetings! 7pm Your Residence Hall Watch ThisI'm Interested Kick it Off with Campus Rec University Housing, Campus Recreation, and CHAW will partner for a night where you're encouraged to Live Well. Join us on the Main Campus Fields for sports,... 8pm Main Campus Fields (Old IM Fields) (IFF) Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Tuesday, June 21 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Faculty Summer Workshop Session: Professor... Professor Kelli Williams will lead a faculty workshop on her latest research and forthcoming projects. Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Generator Test Generator test. The CM120 will be down for the day. BSIR - Bio Unit One, Room 119 Online Grades due by 4:00 p.m. for Summer... Grades for Summer Session A are due by 4:00 p.m. today. EAP for Supervisors (LSEAP1) In this class you will learn: how to recognize early signs of trouble in an employee's performance; how to have a constructive interview with a troubled... 9am Stadium Place - Training Center (L45), 205 Thesis Defense - Hardin, Emily E Manuscript Title: Comparison of acoustic and satellite telemetry as methods for quantifying space use of marine species Committee Chair: Fuentes, Mariana 9am Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences Building (EOA), 2061 Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Krusemark, Danielle R Manuscript Title: The Faciliatory and Inhibitory Links between Discrimination Mindsets and Collective Action Committee Chair: Plant, Elizabeth A 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested SUG 2022 - Day Fifteen Criminal Procedure (Class #6)Interview Skills WorkshopLunch BreakMock Interviews 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested Free Microsoft Training for Faculty, Staff and... FSU Information Technology Services is excited to announce a new partnership with Microsoft that brings free, live training classes to FSU students, faculty,... 11am, 3pm Virtual Event Webinar: Substance Use Disorders and the link... Join the CFC Center for this webinar focusing on how the long-term effects of childhood trauma is linked to substance use disorders. Looking at Adverse... 12:30pm Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Travel Office Hours - Concur (Zoom Session) Open Zoom to ask questions about travel or Concur. Additional Resources: http://controller.vpfa.fsu.edu/concur 1:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested FSUshadow Student Information Sessions (virtual) The FSUshadow Program connects you with employers, community partners, alumni and friends of FSU for one-day job shadowing opportunities. The shadowing... 2pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Free Microsoft Training for Faculty, Staff and... FSU Information Technology Services is excited to announce a new partnership with Microsoft that brings free, live training classes to FSU students, faculty,... 3pm Virtual Event Microsoft 365 Accessibility: Hard of Hearing... Learn about specialized features within Microsoft 365 for those who are hard of hearing, have hearing loss or have deafness. 3pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Summer A Recommendation for Honors Credit... For more information on Individual Honors-Augmented courses and Honors Directed Individual Study courses, please visit the Course Contracts webpage on the... 4pm Virtual Event OLLI Cooks - Look Who's Cooking Now! 5pm Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday, June 22 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Grades for Summer Session A Available Online Grades can be viewed online. Departmental Ledger Review (BTAC04) The final course in the BTAC series equips users to perform their monthly ledger reviews by incorporating all the knowledge gained during the BTAC01 – BTAC03... 9am Stadium Place - Training Center (L45), Rooms 205/209 SUG 2022 - Day Sixteen Criminal Procedure (Class #7)Artificial Intelligence with Professor Shawn BayernLunch Break 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested Q&A with SG&A Accounting Weekly drop-in sessions to help student leaders with SG&A accounting and financial processes. 10:30am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Cochran, Josiah R Manuscript Title: SENSITIVE SPIN DETECTION WITH DIFFERENTIAL DC SQUIDS Committee Chair: Chiorescu, Irinel 11am National High Magnetic Field Laboratory (MAG), B101 Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Hub Hangout The Innovation Hub is NOW OPEN! Drop in the Hub by Landis Green to get your feel for new tech in 3D Printing, Virtual Reality and much more. There will be... 3pm Innovation Hub: Louis Shores Building , Collab space Watch ThisI'm Interested Optional Practical Training (OPT) Workshop for... Registration required: cge.fsu.edu/register Multiple upcoming dates on Zoom (5/23, 6/22, 7/7, 8/4) And more in Person (5/18, 6/7, 7/14, 7,27, 8/9) All F-1... 4pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Thursday, June 23 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Drop/Add Ends for Summer Session B Drop/Add ends at 11:59 p.m. tonight. 8am Introduction to the Green Office Program (PDGOP1) The Introduction to the Green Office Program course is designed to empower participants to participate in FSU's Green Office Program. By the end of the... 9:30am Stadium Place - Training Center (L45), 205 Emeritus Alumni Society Coffee Chat | June 23 Join fellow emeritus alumni for a coffee chat and hear from Chief Meteorologist Mike McCall (B.S. '88) 10:00 a.m. Social, 10:30 a.m. Program 10am FSU Alumni Center RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested FSUshadow Student Information Sessions (virtual) The FSUshadow Program connects you with employers, community partners, alumni and friends of FSU for one-day job shadowing opportunities. The shadowing... 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested SUG 2022 - Day Seventeen Criminal Procedure (Class #8)Financing Law School with AccessLex 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Kent, Heather C Manuscript Title: Informal Learning to Support Volunteer Performance Committee Chair: Klein, James 2pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Popovic, Zeljka Manuscript Title: APPLICATIONS OF LIQUID CHROMATOGRAPHY TANDEM MASS SPECTROMETRY FOR THE ANALYSIS OF COMPLEX MIXTURES Committee Chair: Marshall, Alan G 3pm Chemical Sciences Laboratories (CSL), 1005 Watch ThisI'm Interested Summer B Honors DIS Course Contract Deadline For more information on Honors Directed Individual Study courses, please visit the Course Contracts webpage on the Honors Program website at:... 4pm Virtual Event Honors Solo Recital - Session 1 Join us for the Session 1 Honors Solo Recital featuring select campers from the 2022 Senior High Band Camp and 2022 String Orchestra Camp. 7pm Dohnányi Recital Hall (DRH) Drive My Car A heartbreaking story about love, grief, and gaining the strength to move forward! An aging, widowed actor seeks a chauffeur. The actor turns to his go-to... 8pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Friday, June 24 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Prorated 7th Week Deadline for Summer Session C For additional information regarding deadlines based on the end of the seventh week of classes, please reference the summer academic calendar. 5th Day of Classes for Summer Session B For additional information regarding deadlines based on the end of the 5th day of classes, please reference the summer academic calendar. 8am Dissertation Defense - Sokolowski, Chester M Manuscript Title: The Relationship Among Binge Drinking, Musculoskeletal Health, Physical Performance, and Cognitive Wellness in Young Adult... 8am Pepper Building (PCB), Auditorium Watch ThisI'm Interested Introduction to the Green Office Program (PDGOP1) The Introduction to the Green Office Program course is designed to empower participants to participate in FSU's Green Office Program. By the end of the... 9:30am Virtual Event SUG 2022 - Day Eighteen Admissions ExerciseLunch BreakClosing Reception & Awards Ceremony 10am Watch ThisI'm Interested Florida Evidence This is a Spear the Bar session on Florida evidence to prepare graduates for the Florida Bar exam. 11am Main Classroom Building (Law School) (LAW), 103 Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 10am FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Fundamentals of Investing (FLSFOI) Faculty and staff are invited to join an educational workshop. Topics covered include why to invest, what to invest in, how to invest, and where to invest to... 12pm Virtual Event Dissertation Defense - Escobar Salazar, Nivia K Manuscript Title: No Girls Allow! English and Spanish Media Coverage Analysis of the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics across Latinos in the US and Latin America... 1pm University Center - Building C (UCC) Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Abdi Anbouhi, Mehdi Manuscript Title: Universal Mappings and the Metric Geometry of Functional Data Committee Chair: Mio, Washington 3pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Summer 2022 Honors in the Major Prospectus... Students in their first semester of HITM research should begin by writing their research prospectus, and by having it approved by their faculty director and... 4:30pm International Coffee Hour Join the Center for Global Engagement every Friday classes are in session from 5-6:30 p.m. in The Globe for refreshments from a featured culture and... 5pm Global and Multicultural Engagement Building (GME), The Globe Dining Room Watch ThisI'm Interested Chamber Ensembles Concert - String Orchestra... Join us for performances by the chamber ensembles from the 2022 String Orchestra Camp: Session 1. 7pm Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) SOC Chamber Enesembles Concert https://fsu-college-of-music.gofmx.com/scheduling/requests/2399019/occurrences/5696373 Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting... 7pm Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) Watch ThisI'm Interested Drive My Car A heartbreaking story about love, grief, and gaining the strength to move forward! An aging, widowed actor seeks a chauffeur. The actor turns to his go-to... 8pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Saturday, June 25 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Final Performance - String Orchestra Camp:... Join us for the final concert of the 2022 String Orchestra Camp: Session 1. 9am Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) SOC Final Concert https://fsu-college-of-music.gofmx.com/scheduling/requests/2399020/occurrences/5696375 Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting... 9am Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) Watch ThisI'm Interested Final Performance - Piano Institute Join us for the final performance of the 2022 FSU Piano Institute. 10am Longmire Recital Hall (LON) PI Final Performance https://fsu-college-of-music.gofmx.com/scheduling/requests/2399023/occurrences/5696380 Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting... 10am Longmire Recital Hall (LON) Watch ThisI'm Interested Final Performance - Senior High Band Camp... Join us for the final performance of the 2022 Senior High Band Camp: Session 1. 12pm Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) SHBC Final Concert https://fsu-college-of-music.gofmx.com/scheduling/requests/2399021/occurrences/5696377 Admission is free for this event. To learn more about our exciting... 12pm Ruby Diamond Concert Hall (RDCH) Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Drive My Car A heartbreaking story about love, grief, and gaining the strength to move forward! An aging, widowed actor seeks a chauffeur. The actor turns to his go-to... 8pm Student Life Cinema Watch ThisI'm Interested Sunday, June 26 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Jack Box Bonanza Have what it takes to garner a laugh and be a gamer? Join and inquire with Game Committee to get ready for the upcoming semesters! 8:30pm Askew Student Life Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Jackbox Bonanza Have what it takes to garner a laugh and be a gamer? Join and inquire with Game Committee to get ready for the upcoming semesters! 8:30pm Askew Student Life Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Monday, June 27 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested FSU Summer Program in Law at Oxford The College of Law annually sponsors a five-and-a-half-week summer semester of legal studies at the University of Oxford in England. The Summer Program in... Watch ThisI'm Interested Master's Thesis Format Master's Thesis Format... Last day to submit master's thesis for pre-defense format review. Dissertation Defense - Chowdhury, Mohammad Imran Manuscript Title: PATH PLANNING ALGORITHMS FOR AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES Committee Chair: Schwartz, Daniel G 1pm Love Building (LOV), 151 Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Q&A with SG&A Accounting Weekly drop-in sessions to help student leaders with SG&A accounting and financial processes. 1:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Internship Fund Information Session The Career Center’s Internship Fund provides financial support to students pursuing experiential learning opportunities. Any single-semester paid or unpaid... 3pm Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested FSUshadow Student Information Sessions (virtual) The FSUshadow Program connects you with employers, community partners, alumni and friends of FSU for one-day job shadowing opportunities. The shadowing... 4pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Gaming Trivia Night Come join us as we put on a fantastical game of trivia to cover your favorite gaming topics!. 8:30pm Askew Student Life Building (SLB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Trivia Night Come join us as we put on a fantastical game of trivia to cover your favorite gaming topics!. 8:30pm Askew Student Life Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Tuesday, June 28 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Faculty Summer Workshop Session: Professor Mark... Professor Mark Seidenfeld will lead a faculty workshop on his latest research and forthcoming projects. Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Hess, Katelyn E Manuscript Title: Three Essays on Business-State Relations in Authoritarian Regimes Committee Co-Chairs: Kern, Holger Lutz Beazer, Quintin Hayes 9am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Jeske, Richard Manuscript Title: BIOREACTOR REGULATION OF HUMAN MESENCHYMAL STEM CELL METABOLISM, HOMEOSTASIS, AND EXTRACELLULAR VESICLE BIOGENESIS Committee Chair: Li, Yan 10am FAMU/FSU College of Engineering Building A (CE1), A113 Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Fisher, Alec J Manuscript Title: Type Ia Supernovae: Transitional and Nebular Phase Spectral Modeling Committee Chair: Hoeflich, Peter A 11am Richards Building (UPL), 112 Watch ThisI'm Interested Free Microsoft Training for Faculty, Staff and... FSU Information Technology Services is excited to announce a new partnership with Microsoft that brings free, live training classes to FSU students, faculty,... 11am, 3pm Virtual Event Dissertation Defense - Khan, Md Muhib Manuscript Title: Tuning and Optimization of Resource Management for Data Analytics Applications Committee Chair: Yu, Weikuan 1pm Love Building (LOV), 151 Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Khan, Md Muhib Manuscript Title: Tuning and Optimization of Resource Management for Data Analytics Applications Committee Chair: Yu, Weikuan 1pm Love Building (LOV), 151 Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Travel Office Hours - Concur (Zoom Session) Open Zoom to ask questions about travel or Concur. Additional Resources: http://controller.vpfa.fsu.edu/concur 1:30pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Free Microsoft Training for Faculty, Staff and... FSU Information Technology Services is excited to announce a new partnership with Microsoft that brings free, live training classes to FSU students, faculty,... 3pm Virtual Event Microsoft 365 Accessibility: Neurodiversity... Innovative tools such as dictation and Windows Hello sign-in can make the digital world more accessible for those who live with dyslexia, seizures, autism or... 3pm Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Information Session for Degree in Three &... This session will give students information on the benefits and eligibility requirements for the Degree in Three and More in Four programs. Degree in Three... 3:30pm Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Really Virtual Reality! Try out the future and hop into our state of the art VR headset. Take on our vast selection of VR games and see what it's like! 8:30pm Askew Student Life Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Really Virtual Reality! Try out the future and hop into our state of the art VR headset. Take on our vast selection of VR games and see what it's like! 8:30pm Askew Student Life Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Really Virtual Reality! Try out the future and hop into our state of the art VR headset. Take on our vast selection of VR games and see what it's like! 8:30pm Askew Student Life Building (SLB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Wednesday, June 29 FAFSA application is open The free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) opened Thursday, Oct. 1, and is open until June 30, 2022, for the 2021-22 aid year. Students are... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Dissertation Defense - Presswood, Amanda Lyn Manuscript Title: CONTENDING WITH LANGUAGE DIFFERENCE IN THE WRITING CENTER: AN INVESTIGATION OF ATTITUDES AND EXPECTATIONS TOWARDS SECOND LANGUAGE... 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Form I-9, Guardian, E-Verify (COI92) An in-depth look at the I-9 Process including how to properly complete the I-9 Form, how to navigate the Guardian software, how to complete an E-Verify case,... 10am Virtual Event Q&A with SG&A Accounting Weekly drop-in sessions to help student leaders with SG&A accounting and financial processes. 10:30am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Virtual Student & Employer Networking Event No matter your major, it's always a good idea to develop your networking skills and make connections with potential employers. Drop in virtually to The... 11:45am Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art... Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK... 12pm FSU PC Holley Academic Center Watch ThisI'm Interested Information Session for Degree in Three &... This session will give students information on the benefits and eligibility requirements for the Degree in Three and More in Four programs. Degree in Three... 3:30pm Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Learning District Late-Night Tutoring - Summer... Looking for help in chemistry, math, or physics? Our service is FREE and doesn't require an appointment. Plus, we're available both online and... 8pm Strozier Library, First Floor across from Starbucks Stream Available Watch ThisI'm Interested Gaming Extravaganza Join Game Committee as we play games like smash, Mario kart, and countless tabletop games at the ASLC! 8:30pm Askew Student Life Center Watch ThisI'm Interested May 31 - June 29, 2022 All Events Places to Go Departments Groups Switch to April 2022 Switch to June 2022 May Calendar Date Navigation S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 View This Month View by Day Week Month Next 30 Days Sort by Date Name Popularity Community All Campuses Main Campus Coastal and Marine Laboratory Daytona Beach Regional Medical School Campus Fort Pierce Regional Medical School Campus Orlando Regional Medical School Campus Panama City Campus Pensacola Regional Medical School Campus Sarasota Campuses Tallahassee Regional Medical School Campus Hide Recurring Events Experience All Experiences In-Person Virtual Type All Types Training and Development (31) Arts/Entertainment (29) › Music & Concerts (22) › Ensemble (4) › Recitals (0) › University Musical Associates (0) › Dance (0) › Theatre (0) Academic/Registrar (27) Workshops & Seminars (17) Special Events (14) Holidays and Observances (13) General (11) Diversity and Inclusion (7) Free to the Public (4) International & Multicultural (4) Networking (4) Presentations (3) Speakers & Lectures (3) Campus Recreation (2) › Fitness & Wellness (0) › Intramural Sports (0) › Outdoor Adventures (0) › Sport Clubs (0) Webinars (2) Athletics (0) Campus Safety (0) Competitions (0) Conferences (0) Faith-based (0) Fundraisers (0) Lecture (0) Maintenance (0) Meetings (0) Orientation (0) Receptions (0) Sustainability (0) Tabling (0) Wellness (0) Show More Departments Filter All Departments Filters Administration (124) › Provost/Academic Affairs (79) › Graduate School Defense Announcements (48) › Registrar (19) › Honors Program (5) › Academics (4) › Panama City, Florida Campus (2) › The Graduate School (2) › Admissions (0) › Advising First (0) › Center for Intensive English Studies (CIES) (0) › Center for Undergraduate Research and Academic Engagement (CRE) (0) › Dedman College of Hospitality (0) › Degree in Three (0) › Distance (Online) Learning (0) › Division of Undergraduate Studies (0) › Faculty Senate (0) › Financial Aid (0) › FSU Visitor Center (0) › Graduation Planning and Strategies Office (0) › Honor Societies at FSU (0) › Honors, Scholars and Fellows House (0) › Innovation Hub (0) › Institute for Successful Longevity (0) › Learning Systems Institute (0) › Office of Faculty Development and Advancement (0) › Office of Graduate Fellowships and Awards (0) › Office of International Initiatives (0) › Office of National Fellowships (ONF) (0) › Preview (0) › Program for Instructional Excellence (PIE) (0) Expand › Finance and Administration (34) › Training and Organizational Development (32) › Information Technology Services (5) › Information Technology Services Events (5) › Information Technology Services Maintenance Calendar (5) › Diversity and Inclusion (4) › Controller (0) › Donald L. Tucker Civic Center (0) › Finance and Reporting Services (0) › FSU Research Computing Center (0) › Human Resources (0) › Office of Business Services (0) › Parking and Transportation Services (0) › Seminole Dining (Campus Dish) (0) › Seminole Golf Course and Club (0) › Student Business Services (0) › Sustainable Campus (0) Expand › Student Veterans Center (4) › Advancement (0) › Alumni Association (0) › FSU Foundation (0) › Seminole Boosters (0) › Research (0) › Aero-propulsion, Mechatronics and Energy Center (AME) (0) › Coastal and Marine Laboratory (0) › Commercialization (0) › Florida Center for Reading Research (FCRR) (0) › Research Development (0) › Research Foundation (0) › Sponsored Research Administration (0) Expand › University Relations (0) › Governmental Relations (0) › Office of University Communications (0) › Opening Nights Performing Arts (0) Expand Colleges (37) › College of Law (31) › College of Social Work (3) › Institute for Family Violence Studies (0) › Institute for Justice Research and Development (0) › Multidisciplinary Evaluation and Consulting Center (0) › The Brevard Network (0) › College of Arts and Sciences (0) › Aerospace Studies (Air Force ROTC) (0) › Anthropology (0) › Biological Science (0) › Biological Science Imaging Resource (BSIR) (0) › Center for Genomics and Personalized Medicine (0) › Center for Humanities and Society (0) › Center for Ocean-Atmospheric Prediction Studies (COAPS) (0) › Chemistry and Biochemistry (0) › Classics (0) › Computer Science (0) › Data Sciences (0) › Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Science (0) › FSU-Teach (0) › Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Institute (0) › History (0) › History and Philosophy of Science (0) › Institute of Molecular Biophysics (0) › Institute on Napoleon and the French Revolution (0) › Institute on World War II and the Human Experience (0) › Interdisciplinary Humanities (0) › Latin American and Caribbean Studies (0) › Mathematics (0) › Middle East Center (0) › Military Science (Army ROTC) (0) › Modern Languages and Linguistics (0) › Office of Science Teaching Activities (0) › Philosophy (0) › Physics (0) › Program in Interdisciplinary Computing (PIC) (0) › Psychology (0) › Religion (0) › Rintels Professorship (0) › Scientific Computing (0) › Statistics (0) › Winthrop-King Institute for Contemporary French and Francophone Studies (0) › Women's Studies Program (0) Expand › College of Business (0) › Accounting (0) › BB&T Center for Free Enterprise (0) › Business Analytics, Information Systems and Supply Chain (0) › Carl DeSantis Center for Executive Management Education (0) › Center for Human Resource Management (0) › Finance (0) › Florida Catastrophic Storm Risk Management Center (0) › FSU Real Estate Center (0) › Gene Taylor/Bank of America Center for Banking and Financial Studies (0) › Graduate and Online Programs (0) › Management (0) › Marketing (0) › Risk Management/Insurance, Real Estate and Legal Studies (0) › Sales Institute (0) › Undergraduate Programs and Advising Center (0) Expand › College of Communication and Information (0) › Communication and Early Childhood Research and Practice (CEC-RAP) (0) › Information Use Management and Policy Institute (0) › Institute for Digital Information and Scientific Communication (0) › PALM Center (0) › School of Communication (0) › School of Communication Science and Disorders (0) › School of Information (0) Expand › College of Criminology and Criminal Justice (0) › FAMU-FSU College of Engineering (0) › Advanced Mechanics and Materials Laboratory (0) › Center for Intelligent Systems, Control, and Robotics (CISOR) (0) › Challenger Learning Center (0) › Chemical and Biomedical Engineering (0) › Civil and Environmental Engineering (0) › Electrical and Computer Engineering (0) › High-Performance Materials Institute (HPMI) (0) › Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering (0) › Mechanical Engineering (0) Expand Expand Libraries (2) › University Libraries (2) › Allen Music Library (0) › Charlotte Edwards Maguire Medical Library (0) › Claude Pepper (0) › College of Engineering Library (0) › College of Law Research Library (0) › Dirac Science Library (0) › Special Collections (0) Expand Other (2) › Center for the Advancement of Human Rights (0) › Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship (0) › Jim Moran Institute for Global Entrepreneurship (0) › OLLI at FSU, PC30A (0) Athletics (0) › Baseball (0) › Beach Volleyball (0) › Cross Country (0) › Football (0) › Men's Basketball (0) › Men's Golf (0) › Men's Tennis (0) › Softball (0) › Swimming & Diving (0) › Track & Field (0) › Volleyball (0) › Women's Basketball (0) › Women's Golf (0) › Women's Soccer (0) › Women's Tennis (0) Expand Subscribe to These Results Google Calendar Apple iCal Outlook RSS Request a calendar © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Powered by the Localist Community Events Calendar © Log in to Florida State University Calendar Log in with FSUID