Log In Event Calendar Search Go Featured Events Leading Boldly: Greisa Martinez Rosas Wednesday, June 1 @10 am Pacific Greisa Martinez Rosas who immigrated with her family from Mexico to the U.S. at a young age, later to see her father later... 6/1 10:00am "Trump, Biden, and the Battle for... Journalists Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns join CPF Co-Directors Bob Shrum and Mike Murphy to discuss their book, "This Will Not Pass: Trump, Biden, and... 6/3 12:00pm Free Second Sunday@PAM - Celebrate Bali! Join us in celebrating Balinese culture and the closing of USC PAM’s special exhibition, Bali: Agency and Power in Southeast Asia! Enjoy a special... 6/12 11:00am Event Highlights Event Highlights upcoming View more events... "Sutra and Bible: Faith and the Japanese... Arts, Exhibit / Shinso Ito Center for Japanese Religions and Culture The Sutra and Bible exhibit is co-curated by Duncan Ryuken Williams and Emily Anderson and is sponsored by the Japanese American National Museum and the USC... 5/30 Japanese American National Museum RegisterWatch ThisAdd to My Plans Live Well, Stress Less Mental Health &... Health and Community Well-Being In honor of Mental Health Awareness Month in May, faculty and staff are invited to participate in the USC WorkWell Center’s 31-day Live Well, Stress Less... 5/30 Virtual Event Watch ThisAdd to My Plans The Silk Roads: Connecting Communities,... Arts, Exhibit / USC Libraries Trade networks have linked the peoples of Africa, Asia, and Europe for thousands of years. The most prominent route is known as the Silk Road—a term coined... 5/30 Doheny Memorial Library (DML), First-floor Treasure Room Watch ThisAdd to My Plans Connect with Digital McKinsey Lecture / Talk / Workshop / Career Center Hosted by McKinsey Digital within EEMA, this event is for students and young professionals passionate about tech career from across US who has strong ties... 5/30 4am Virtual Event Watch ThisAdd to My Plans Rethinking Signaling: New Frontiers in... Conference/Symposia / Stem Cell at USC Presented by the USC Stem Cell T32 Training Program Dae Seok Eom, UC Irvine Hernan Garcia, UC Berkeley Anjana Rao, UC San Diego Rajat Rohatgi, Stanford... 5/31 9am Broad CIRM Center (BCC), BCC 101 Watch ThisAdd to My Plans Master of Education in Learning Design and... Lecture / Talk / Workshop / Rossier School of Education Learn more about the USC Rossier Master of Education in Learning Design and Technology online (LDT online) program, designed to prepare students to start or... 5/31 12pm Online RegisterWatch ThisAdd to My Plans Master of Science in Marriage and Family... Lecture / Talk / Workshop / Rossier School of Education The USC Rossier Master of Science in Marriage and Family Therapy program prepares students for careers as therapists in clinics, healthcare centers, schools... 5/31 3pm Online RegisterWatch ThisAdd to My Plans Shopify - APM Information Session Lecture / Talk / Workshop, Careers / Career Center Interested in Product Management? Shopify’s Apprentice Product Manager Program is for participants who are looking to begin their product management career.... 6/1 9am Virtual Event Watch ThisAdd to My Plans Leading Boldly: Greisa Martinez Rosas Lecture / Talk / Workshop / Price School of Public Policy Wednesday, June 1 @10 am Pacific Greisa Martinez Rosas who immigrated with her family from Mexico to the U.S. at a young age, later to see her father later... 6/1 10am Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisAdd to My Plans The Ins and Outs of USAJOBS: Demystifying the... Lecture / Talk / Workshop, Careers / Career Center / Student Affairs Join the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) on June 1st at 1pm (EST) to hear from HR experts as they discuss all things USAJOBS to include... 6/1 10am Virtual Event Watch ThisAdd to My Plans View more events... Submit an Event All Events Places to Go Departments Switch to April 2022 Switch to June 2022 May Calendar Date Navigation S M T W T F S 1May 1 has events 2May 2 has events 3May 3 has events 4May 4 has events 5May 5 has events 6May 6 has events 7May 7 has events 8May 8 has events 9May 9 has events 10May 10 has events 11May 11 has events 12May 12 has events 13May 13 has events 14May 14 has events 15May 15 has events 16May 16 has events 17May 17 has events 18May 18 has events 19May 19 has events 20May 20 has events 21May 21 has events 22May 22 has events 23May 23 has events 24May 24 has events 25May 25 has events 26May 26 has events 27May 27 has events 28May 28 has events 29May 29 has events 30May 30 has events 31May 31 has no events 1Jun 1 has no events 2Jun 2 has no events 3Jun 3 has no events 4Jun 4 has no events Event Types Event Types Lecture / Talk / Workshop (18) Arts (8) › Exhibit (8) › Dance/Theater (0) › Film Screening (0) › Music (0) Careers (7) Health and Community Well-Being (3) Commencement (1) Conference/Symposia (1) Sustainability (1) Event Highlights (0) Reception (0) Student Life (0) Audience Audience Students (25) Faculty/Staff (13) Alumni (12) Neighbors (10) Campus Campus Other Location (13) University Park Campus (12) Health Sciences Campus (3) Departments Departments All Departments Center for Economic and Social Research Department of Population and Public Health Sciences Academic Honors and Fellowships Academic Senate American Language Institute American Studies and Ethnicity AMP SoCal Annenberg Center on Communication Leadership and Policy Annenberg Special Events Anthropology Archaeology Research Center Asian Pacific American Students Services (APASS) Asian Pacific Islander Faculty and Staff Association (APIFSA) Biokinesiology and Physical Therapy Bridge Institute Business Services Campus Activities Campus Humanities Career Center Casden Institute Center for Advanced Genocide Research Center for Artificial Intelligence in Society Center for Black Cultural and Student Affairs Center for Craniofacial Molecular Biology Center for Health Equity in the Americas Center for Languages and Cultures Center for Latin American and Latinx Studies Center for Religion and Civic Culture (CRCC) Center for Social Innovation Center for the Changing Family Center for the Political Future Center for the Premodern World Center of Science, Technology, and Public Life Cognitive Science Program Comparative Literature (COLT) Creative Writing & Literature Dentistry Department of Art History Department of Chemistry Department of Classics Department of Economics Department of Middle East Studies (MDES) Dornsife Admission and Student Success Dornsife Advising Dornsife Alumni Dornsife Career Pathways Dornsife College of Letters, Arts & Sciences Dornsife Office of Communication Dornsife PhD Academy Early Modern Studies Institute (EMSI) East Asian Languages and Cultures (EALC) East Asian Studies Center (EASC) Emeriti Center English Eric Cohen Health Center Experiential and Applied Learning Faculty Led Programs First Generation Plus Success Center Fisher Museum of Art Fraternity & Sorority Leadership Development French and Italian Gender and Sexuality Studies German Studies Program Global Engagement Gould School of Law History Human & Evolutionary Biology Institute for Advanced Catholic Studies Institute for Armenian Studies Institute on California and the West (ICW) Institute on Inequalities in Global Health Iovine and Young Academy Kaufman School of Dance Keck School of Medicine Korean Studies Institute (KSI) La CASA Language Center Latin American and Iberian Cultures Latino Alumni Association Leonard Davis School of Gerontology Levan Institute for the Humanities LGBTQ+ Student Center Linguistics Marine Environmental Biology (MEB) Marshall School of Business Mathematical Finance Mathematics Max Kade Institute MESH Academy Molecular and Computational Biology (MCB) Mrs. T.H. Chan Division of Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy Neuroscience Graduate Program Norris Medical Library Office of Fire Safety and Emergency Planning Office of International Services Office of Religious Life Office of Research Office of Sustainability Office of the President Overseas Studies Pacific Asia Museum Political Science Politics and International Relations (POIR) Pre-Graduate Advising Pre-Health Pre-Law Advising Price School of Public Policy Psychology Quantitative and Computational Biology Residential Education Roski School of Art and Design Rossier School of Education Safe Communities Institute School of Architecture School of Cinematic Arts School of Dramatic Arts School of Pharmacy School of Philosophy School of Religion Shinso Ito Center for Japanese Religions and Culture Society of Fellows Sociology Spatial Sciences Institute Stem Cell at USC Stevens Center for Innovation Student Affairs Supplemental Instruction Thematic Option Thornton School of Music Thornton Student Recitals Undergraduate Student Government USC Dornsife Institute for New Economic Thinking (INET) USC Libraries USC Lusk Center for Real Estate USC Schaeffer Center USC Shoah Foundation - Institute for Visual History and Education USC Student Health | Keck Medicine of USC USC Thornton Backstage Pass Visions and Voices: The Arts and Humanities Initiative Visual Studies Research Institute (VSRI) Viterbi School of Engineering Wrigley Institute Writing Center Show More Need Help? Visit the USC Event Calendar Help site Featured Channel Featured Channel Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month Black History Month Community Events Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Week Earth Day Earth Week Latinx Heritage Month LGBTQ+ History Month Piatigorsky International Cello Festival Sexual Assault Awareness Month USC Culture Journey USC Green Week USC Pride Month USC Welcome Experience Virtual Student Life Women's History Month Privacy Notice Login to USC Event Calendar Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with School ID