Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Login Submit an Event View my Events Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Events Calendar « All Events This event has passed. Mapping Historical Trauma in Tulsa from 1921-2021 – Application Deadline May 20 TU students are invited to participate in an archaeological survey taking place in the historic Greenwood area. No previous archaeological experience is necessary, but students with an interest in history, racial justice and/or the material remains of the past are preferred. The Mapping Historical Trauma in Tulsa from 1921-2021 project will be conducting an archaeological survey in select locations within Greenwood June 13-24, seeking to document the remains of historic structures in the district. To expand the impact of our program, we are excited to provide free archaeological skills training to college and high school students in the greater Tulsa area. In total, we have 15 spaces available for student volunteers. Over the course of the program, students will learn about best practices for archaeological data recording, field survey using high resolution GPS, the history of Greenwood and approaches in archaeology to highlight both the documentation of anti-Black violence and Black resilience in the 20th century. Students who are unable to participate in the full program are welcome to join us for shorter portions of the research program, but the orientation is required. Spaces are open to all but preference will be given to students from historically underrepresented groups, those with ancestral ties to the Greenwood community and students with previous experience in archaeology. Project schedule June 9-10: Virtual orientation June 13: Tour of Black Wall Street June 13-17: Archaeological survey field research June 18: Trip to Juneteenth Festival in Greenwood June 19-24: Artifact documentation and laboratory work If you are interested in participating, please fill out the student interest form by Friday, May 20. If you have questions or need more information, please contact alicia-odewale@utulsa.edu or parker_vanvalkenburgh@brown.edu. + Google Calendar+ Add to iCalendar Details Date: May 20 Event Categories: Anthropology, College of Arts & Sciences, History Website: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScdTAZskVWcBfBiXnOB47cqLqRe7iUM2r_57nrpAdBKRhwhlQ/viewform « Alumni Afternoon at the Tulsa Drillers Tulsa Race Massacre Commemoration and Reception » 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT