Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share WSU Events Home Today’s Events Events by Month Events by Organization Academic Calendar Contact Us Submit an Event WSU News facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Events Everything that’s happening. Browse by… Event type Class / Instruction Exhibition Workshop / Seminar Event type Class / Instruction Exhibition Workshop / Seminar Browse events by event type Campus WSU Global Campus WSU Pullman WSU Tri-Cities WSU Vancouver Campus WSU Global Campus WSU Pullman WSU Tri-Cities WSU Vancouver Browse events by campus Search for: Featured events Monday, May 23 @8 am CySER Summer Workshop 2022 Workshop / Seminar WSU Pullman This two week-long workshop will feature presentations by cybersecurity experts, research presentations, industry best practices, hands-on tutorials, a student poster session, networking opportunities, field trips to Schweitzer Engineering Laboratory and Keyport Naval Undersea Warfare Center, optional picnic on Memorial Day, food, and fun. Tuesday, May 24 @1 pm Our Stories, Our Lives: Irwin Nash photographs of Yakima Valley migrant labor Exhibition WSU Pullman In 1967, Irwin Nash visited the Yakima Valley to take photographs for a free-lance magazine piece on valley agriculture. After completing this assignment, he nevertheless returned to the farming communities around Yakima each season until 1976 to document the lives of these workers. In the process, he created a compelling archive of more than 9,400 photographs. Tuesday, May 24 @1 pm Keiko Hara: The Poetics of Space, Four Decades of Paintings and Prints Exhibition WSU Pullman Keiko Hara’s exploration of her relationship to her surrounding environment has been continually formulated through the artist’s ongoing series titled, Topophilia. Meaning “a strong love of place,” the term topophilia, with its connection to humanistic geography, also represents a universal desire to hold onto ephemeral moments of beauty and sadness as related to conceptions of place—even if unattainable. Wednesday, June 1 @11 am Why is now a good time to be a student? Workshop / Seminar Online The goal is to provide students with an overview of opportunities available at various venues. Five presenters from different backgrounds will share their experience and discuss several comprehensive, career-building undergraduate and graduate internship opportunities, including numerous examples for different areas of research. Wednesday, June 1 @12:10 pm Hitting Pause: Practical Ways to Incorporate Lecture Breaks to Reinforce Learning Workshop / Seminar WSU Pullman The objective of this presentation is to: demonstrate practical ways to effectively incorporate “pauses” (reflective learning experiences) into teaching and to highlight the powerful benefits of faculty-based learning circles. Thursday, June 2 @1 pm How Can We Help Students to Make Connections that Build Comprehension? Workshop / Seminar WSU Pullman Join us from 1-2 pm on Thursdays, May 12 – July 14 for discussions from: James M. Lang, Small Teaching: Everyday Lessons from the Science of Learning, John Wiley & Sons, Incorporated, 2016. ProQuest Ebook Central. Feel free to read the overview of each chapter, or simply join us in person or via Zoom on the day. We look forward to seeing you! Saturday, June 4 @10 am Cougs Care: Pet Food and Supplies Drive WSU Pullman Please join us by making a donation of pet food or supplies for the Whitman County Humane Society – drop off donations at Petco in Moscow or Pets are People Too in Pullman on June 4. Saturday, June 4 @3 pm Retirement Party honoring Dr. Candis Claiborn WSU Pullman Join us in celebrating Dr. Claiborn’s 28 years of dedicated service to Washington State University! May 2022 Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 Submit an event Contact us Events