The University of Kansas MENU THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Events Calendar myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search Search Places Events Groups Departments KU Events Calendar All Events Departments Places myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay Sign in Select to sign in THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Events Calendar Menu Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up The University of Kansas Tuesday, May 31 KUCTC Lunch & Learn Series: Maximizing Scientific Value: Aligning Research, Strategy, and Patenting Clear message KUCTC Lunch & Learn Series: Maximizing Scientific Value: Aligning Research, Strategy, and Patenting Tuesday, May 31, 2022 12pm to 1pm I'm Interested Share KUCTC Lunch & Learn Series: Maximizing Scientific Value: Aligning Research, Strategy, and Patenting Share KUCTC Lunch & Learn Series: Maximizing Scientific Value: Aligning Research, Strategy, and Patenting on Facebook Share KUCTC Lunch & Learn Series: Maximizing Scientific Value: Aligning Research, Strategy, and Patenting on Twitter Share KUCTC Lunch & Learn Series: Maximizing Scientific Value: Aligning Research, Strategy, and Patenting on LinkedIn I'm Interested About this Event Virtual Event View stream information Add to calendar Save to Google Calendar Save to iCal Save to Outlook Add to calendar You do not have to choose between scholarly publication of our work and patent protection when advancing your research programs. You can do both with timely disclosure, strategic publication, staged IP filings, and consistent IP portfolio management. Please join us for the next installment of our seminar series as we welcome KU alumnus James (Jim) P. McParland, Ph.D., J.D. from the law firm of Foley & Lardner LLP. During our hour together, Jim will offer best practice strategies on how you can best maximize the scientific value of your research program though careful planning and strategic action. Dr. McParland is senior counsel with Foley & Lardner LLP and a member of the Chemical, Biotechnology & Pharmaceutical Practice. The primary focus areas of his practice are patent prosecution, due diligence, and litigation in the art areas of molecular chemistry, pharmaceuticals, polymers, batteries, and medical devices. Jim is a double Jayhawk. He holds a PhD in Organic Chemistry from the University of Kansas (2009) and a law degree from the University of Kansas School of Law (J.D.). He graduated, summa cum laude, with a degree in chemistry from Loyola University Chicago (B.S., 2003). We hope you’ll join us to learn more about how you can maximize the value of your inventions. The KUCTC Lunch & Learn series provides training and presentation sessions during the lunch hour. The goal is to inform and inspire the KU community to engage in the process of intellectual property protection, company outreach, and technology commercialization. The sessions will cover a broad range of topics including intellectual property basics, technology licensing, startup funding opportunities, regional economic incentives, as well as legal issues of concern to KU startups. Register on Zoom Event Details Event Type Lectures & Presentations Target Audience Faculty, Prospective Students, Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students Topic / Interest Innovation & Research Tags research Department Office of Research Email kuctc@ku.edu Phone 785-864-6401 0 people are interested in this event I'm Interested Hide stream Show stream Dial-In Information Register on Zoom The University of Kansas Event Types Academic Ceremonies Community Engagement Concerts & Performances Galleries & Exhibitions Lectures & Presentations Meetings & Conferences Training & Professional Development Youth Programs Target Audience Alumni Community Faculty Graduate Students Prospective Students Staff Undergraduate Students Topic / Interest Arts & Culture Diversity & Inclusion Entertainment & Social Health & Wellness Innovation & Research International Affairs Leadership & Civic Engagement Science & Technology Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Benefits Services Time & Pay Contact Website Support Accessibility Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement © 2020 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents. The University of Kansas Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in Email Address Email Address is required. Password Password is required. or Log in with KU OnlineID Log in with Google Log in with Facebook Log in with Twitter Log in with LinkedIn I forgot my password I don't have an account yet