Skip to main content Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Flickr LinkedIn Pinterest RSS Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Flickr LinkedIn Pinterest RSS Twitter YouTube Campus Calendar Menu Day Week Month Filters Today is June 01, 2022 Institute Holidays Academic Calendar Religious & National Observances Submit Your Event Georgia Tech Login Required Get Events June S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Search form Search Categories Arts and Performance Career/Professional development Conference/Symposium Other/Miscellaneous Seminar/Lecture/Colloquium Special event Sports/Athletics Student sponsored Training/Workshop Current campus guidelines for any gathering other than academic classes, professional education programs (GTPE), or department meetings are available at specialevents.gatech.edu/campus-events-guidelines. Tuesday, May 3 2022 All day For more information: Keona Lewis, Ph.D. keona.lewis@gatech.edu Add To My Calendar 2022 Diversity Champion Awards Nomination Annual recipients of the Diversity Champion Awards advance a culture of diversity, equity, and inclusion at Georgia Tech. The 2022 Diversity Champion Awards will recognize campus community members who have actively worked to advance a culture of inclusion and belonging among underrepresented groups in Georgia Tech’s communities. One faculty member, staff member, student, and campus unit who have advanced the principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion at Georgia Tech will be recognized at the 2022 Diversity Symposium in September. Criteria Recipients of 2022 Diversity Champion Awards should have demonstrated one or more of the following within the past three years: Commitment to research and/or activities that engage and challenge racism and expand diversity, equity, and inclusion at Tech Leadership in building a culture of inclusion and belonging among underrepresented groups in our communities Scholarship or work that advances a culture of diversity, equity, and inclusive excellence at Georgia Tech Organized, conducted, and/or supported programs, events, and activities that promote an understanding of different cultures and creating an environment where everyone feels a sense of belonging at Tech All full-time Georgia Tech faculty and staff, students, and units are eligible for this award, with the exception of previous recipients of a Diversity Champion Award or Gender Equity Champion Award. Nominations, including previous nominees and self-nominations, may be made by any full-time Georgia Tech faculty and staff or student for any award category. All nominations must be received below by Friday, July 15, 2022. Submit your nomination here! Click images in enlarge. Conference/Symposium Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology