The University of Texas at Austin Texas Today Main Menu Login Search our events Search Texas Today: UT Events & Announcements Calendar › Event Details Project Management Certificate Program Info Session Hiring managers today are looking for the right blend of leadership, communication, problem-solving and technical skills to meet the demand of today’s typical project manager job responsibilities. Learn details about the Project Management Certificate Programs, followed by a Q&A session with the instructor. Information will be provided about the programs' formats, requirements, registration processes and instructor. On-demand sessions: Available now One covers the self-paced Online Project Management Certificate Program only: Register Now > One covers the online cohort Project Management Certificate Program only (formerly our classroom program): Register Now > Online sessions: Held via Zoom. You will be emailed a link so you can log in to the session. A confirmation email will be sent to you immediately after registering, and more details will be sent in a reminder email one day before the information session. Dial-In Information https://professionaled.utexas.edu/project-management-certificate-program-info-session Wednesday, June 1 at 6:30pm to 7:30pm Virtual Event Event Type Academics, Business & Economy Target Audience Students, General Public Website https://professionaled.utexas.edu/pro... Cost Free Subscribe Google Calendar iCal Outlook Register You're not going yet! This event requires registration. Register The University of Texas at Austin Academic Calendars Holiday Calendar Subscribe to our newsletter Related Links UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2020 Powered by the Localist Community Events Calendar © Login to Texas Today: UT Events & Announcements Calendar Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with School ID