Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Login Submit an Event View my Events Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Events Calendar « All Events This event has passed. National CanArchitecture Competition May 2 - May 3 Free CanArchitecture is a way for TU students to use their creativity to help fight food insecurity on campus and in our community. Students will design a creative structure out of non-perishable food items and then submit a photo to the national competition for a chance to win $1000. The $1000 prize will support the TU Food Pantry and the canned food used to create the structure will be donated to either TU’s Food Pantry or a local soup kitchen. + Google Calendar+ Add to iCalendar Details Start: May 2 End: May 3 Cost: Free Event Categories: Student Sucess, True Blue Neighbors Organizer Student Success Phone: 918-631-3041 Other Room/Location in Building First floor Venue Allen Chapman Student Union 440 S Gary Ave Tulsa, OK 74104 United States + Google Map « Final Exams Final Exams » 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT