The University of Texas at Austin Texas Today Main Menu Login Search our events Search Texas Today: UT Events & Announcements Calendar › Events Please visit the Protect Texas Together website for the latest campus information on COVID-19. STAY INFORMED Google Calendar iCal Outlook RSS Events ← → Sunday, May 22 An Online Survey Study of Well-Being and Skills Health & Wellness, Research Opportunities & Studies Researchers at Boston University are conducting an online survey study of Well-Being and Skills, and they are looking for adults 18 or older to participate.... Virtual Event Apply: Research Assistant for Study on Children who Translate for English-limited Parents Academics, Arts & Humanities, Campus & Community, Research Opportunities & Studies, Diversity / Hispanic Heritage Month We study social, emotional, educational, and health outcomes of middle school and high school students of Mexican origin who translate for their parents who... Sarah M. and Charles E. Seay Building (SEA), 2.322G Stream Available CBD Oil Treatment Study for Reducing the Negative Emotional Impact of COVID-19 Research Opportunities & Studies Are you currently experiencing elevated stress reactions such as anxiety, depression, anger, sleep problems, or substance problems as a result of COVID-19? ... Virtual Event CBD Oil Treatment for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) Research Opportunities & Studies Have you experienced a past traumatic event such as a serious car accident, sexual assault, physical assault, combat experience or some other traumatic... Virtual Event Degrees of Fitness / Sporting Bodies Arts & Humanities Degrees of Fitness / Sporting Bodies is a new exhibit at The H.J. Lutcher Stark Center at the University of Texas. It features works by former UT-Austin... The H.J. Lutcher Stark Center for Physical Culture and Sports, North End Zone, 5.700 Watch ThisI'm Interested Fantastically French! Design and Architecture in 16th- to 18-Century Prints Arts & Humanities From arabesques to grotesques and from sphinxes to snails, French printmakers combined ancient decorative motifs with newly invented ones to create designs... Blanton Museum of Art (BMA) Watch ThisI'm Interested Free PTSD Treatment Research Opportunities & Studies Are you currently experiencing flashbacks, nightmares, sleep problems, anxiety, or avoiding places or situations resulting from a traumatic event such as a... Virtual Event Interested in Teaching English Abroad? Academics, World & Culture CELTA could be your ticket! Teach English abroad with the CELTA (Certificate in English Language Teaching to Speakers of Other Languages), the world's most... Oscar Muñoz: Invisibilia Arts & Humanities Oscar Muñoz: Invisibilia is the first retrospective of this Colombian artist’s work in the United States. Beginning with his early charcoal drawings from the... Blanton Museum of Art Watch ThisI'm Interested PCOS Research Opportunity- chance to win $100 Amazon gift card! Health & Wellness, Research Opportunities & Studies I have created an anonymous online survey with questions about living with PCOS, sleep quality, and symptoms of mental health (both positive and negative).... Virtual Event Paid ACL Research Study Research Opportunities & Studies We are conducting research to identify strategies to restore quadriceps function and reduce the chances of developing knee osteoarthritis following ACL... L. Theo Bellmont Hall (BEL), 546D Paid Brain Imaging Research Study on Bipolar Disorder and Alcohol: Healthy Young Adults Needed Research Opportunities & Studies The Department of Psychiatry at Dell Medical School is conducting a research study that looks at genes and how the brain responds to alcohol using MRI brain... Health Discovery Building (HDB) Paid Brain Imaging Research Study on Bipolar Disorder and Alcohol: Young Adults Needed Research Opportunities & Studies The Department of Psychiatry at Dell Medical School is conducting a research study that looks at genes and how the brain responds to alcohol using MRI brain... Health Discovery Building (HDB) Paid Brain Imaging Research Study on Bipolar Disorder: Young Adults Needed Research Opportunities & Studies The Department of Psychiatry at Dell Medical School is conducting a research study that looks at how the brain works using advanced MRI brain scanning... Norman Hackerman Building (NHB) Paid Clinical Research Trial: Vagus Nerve Stimulation for Treatment Resistant Depression Research Opportunities & Studies To join the RECOVER study you must be 18 years or older and: Currently depressed Have depression, or bipolar depression, that has lasted for at least two... Health Discovery Building (HDB), 8th Floor Suite B Paid MRI Study at Dell Medical School Research Opportunities & Studies Researchers at Dell Medical School at the University of Texas at Austin are looking for children and young adult participants to volunteer in a study of how... Health Discovery Building (HDB) Paid Research Study - MRI Study on Decision-Making and Learning Research Opportunities & Studies The purpose of this research is to improve understanding of how the brain processes decisions and memories in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).The... Health Discovery Building (HDB) Paid Research Study on Benefits to Eating Breakfast Research Opportunities & Studies Are there benefits to eating breakfast? You can help answer this question by taking part in our study! You will either eat breakfast or skip breakfast for 6... Watch ThisI'm Interested Paid Research Study on Family Risk for Alcohol Problems: Healthy Young Adults Needed Research Opportunities & Studies The Department of Psychiatry at Dell Medical School is conducting a research study that looks at genes and how the brain responds to alcohol using... Sarah M. and Charles E. Seay Building (SEA) Paid Research Study on Family Risk for Alcohol Problems: Young Adults Needed Research Opportunities & Studies The Department of Psychiatry at Dell Medical School is conducting a research study that looks at genes and how the brain responds to alcohol using... Sarah M. and Charles E. Seay Building (SEA) Paid Research Study on Family Risk for Alcohol Problems: Young Adults Needed Research Opportunities & Studies The Department of Psychiatry at Dell Medical School is conducting a research study that looks at genes and how the brain responds to alcohol using... Sarah M. and Charles E. Seay Building (SEA) Paid Research Study: Altitude and Type 2 Diabetes Research Opportunities & Studies Our research studies are investigating the blood volume changes in response to breathing low levels of oxygen, similar to altitude, in patients with type 2... Clinical Exercise Physiology Lab, Belmont 819 Paid Research Study: Type 2 Diabetes Patients Needed Research Opportunities & Studies The Neural Cardiovascular Control Lab is conducting research to better understand cardiovascular disease risk in Type 2 diabetes patients. To... L. Theo Bellmont Hall (BEL), Room 816 Paid Sedentary Behavior Research Study Get paid to sit in a recliner and watch TV! We are investigating how sedentary behavior affects brain health! The study duration is approximately 4 hours... L. Theo Bellmont Hall (BEL), 624 Paid fMRI research study Research Opportunities & Studies Are you between the ages of 20 and 45 and interested in making money participating in research? The Dunsmoor lab is looking for subjects to participate in... Health Discovery Building (HDB), 1st Floor Watch ThisI'm Interested Paid memory research study Research Opportunities & Studies Are you interested in making $15 for sitting at a computer and doing some simple tasks? If so, we have just the job for you! The Dunsmoor Lab is recruiting... Health Discovery Building (HDB) Paid research opportunity for children Research Opportunities & Studies The Stuttering and Linguistic Processing Lab is seeking participants for a virtual study lasting approximately 2-2.5 hours. The purpose of this research... Virtual Event Paid virtual reality research study Research Opportunities & Studies Are you interested in virtual reality? Do you want to get paid to play video games? The Dunsmoor Lab is looking for participants for our VR study! You might... Health Discovery Building (HDB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Research Opportunity: Young adult male vapers needed for a research study. Research Opportunities & Studies We are seeking males (18 to 25-year-olds) who are current vapers to participate in a study. The goal of the project is to understand vaping use behaviors in... Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Research Volunteer Opportunity Academics, Health & Wellness, Research Opportunities & Studies, Science & Tech The UT Clinical Neuroprosthetics and Brain Interaction Lab (Led by Dr. José del R. Millán) is looking for students/adults to participate in a brain-computer... 2501 Speedway, Austin, TX 78712, EER 6.828A Terry Allen: MemWars Arts & Humanities Many artists work in multiple mediums, but for Terry Allen, music, performance, writing, and visual artwork are truly all part of the same practice. He grew... Blanton Museum of Art (BMA) Watch ThisI'm Interested University of Texas Women's Golf vs NCAA Championship Sports & Recreation University of Texas Women's Golf vs NCAA Championship https://www.texassports.com/calendar.aspx?id=14393 Scottsdale, Arizona Watch ThisI'm Interested A Survey: Watching Health Videos on Social Media Research Opportunities & Studies Have you watched health-related videos on social media, such as YouTube, TikTok, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, and so on? Health topics may include but are... 6am Virtual Event Cardiovascular health; Participants needed to evaluate the effect of various legwear on arterial... Health & Wellness, Research Opportunities & Studies The new method to measure arterial health is measuring arterial stiffness using Pulse Wave Velocity, a quick, painless, and non-invasive measure. Pulse wave... 6am L. Theo Bellmont Hall (BEL), 842A Artificial Intelligence Paid Research Study: Predicting Brain Health After Cancer Health & Wellness We are conducting a study to increase our understanding about the brain and cognitive changes that occur following diagnosis and treatment for breast cancer.... 8am Health Discovery Building (HDB) Watch ThisI'm Interested Paid Emotion and Memory Brain Imaging Study: Adults Needed Research Opportunities & Studies The Dunsmoor Lab at Dell Medical School is conducting a research study that examines how emotional experiences shape our learning and memory. We are... 8am Health Discovery Building (HDB) Paid Research Study! Using Ultrasound to Influence Brain Function. Research Opportunities & Studies The Fonzo Lab is a team of researchers and clinicians affiliated with the Dell Medical School at the University of Texas at Austin. We are looking for... 8am Health Discovery Building (HDB) Paid research study! Brain imaging of healthy controls Research Opportunities & Studies Are you mentally healthy? Do you want 3D pictures of your brain? Would you like to contribute to science? The Fonzo Lab is a team of researchers and... 8am Health Discovery Building (HDB) Paid research study! Brain imaging of trauma and stress Health & Wellness, Research Opportunities & Studies Have you experienced a trauma or extremely stressful life event? Would you like to contribute to science? The Fonzo Lab is a team of researchers and... 8am Health Discovery Building (HDB) French Research Participants Needed Research participants are needed for a study about language. The study lasts 30 minutes and consists of listening to recordings and performing an intuitive... 9am Homer Rainey Hall (HRH) Paid Remote Research – Longitudinal Health Information Seeking Behaviors Research Opportunities & Studies Have you been actively seeking online for health information in the past few months? If you are: over 50 years old,haven’t worked as a healthcare... 9am Virtual Event University of Texas Men's Tennis vs Team Championships Sports & Recreation University of Texas Men's Tennis vs Team Championships https://www.texassports.com/calendar.aspx?id=14481 9am Champaign, Ill. Watch ThisI'm Interested Stories to Tell: Selections from the Harry Ransom Center Arts & Humanities, World & Culture The Harry Ransom Center houses some of the world's most significant collections relating to literature, art, photography, film, and the performing arts. More... 10am Harry Ransom Center (HRC) Women and the Making of Joyce's Ulysses Arts & Humanities New exhibition marks the 100th anniversary of the publication of James Joyce's famed masterpiece and investigates the important and largely unacknowledged... 10am Harry Ransom Center (HRC) Watch ThisI'm Interested Apply to Texas Health Catalyst (Mentorship and Funding) Science & Tech, Entrepreneurship & Innovation Our 2022 cycle is now open. Apply to Texas Health Catalyst @ Dell Medical School for an opportunity to receive consulting, commercialization support and seed... 12pm Virtual Event Paid Exercise Study for Healthy Women Research Opportunities & Studies The NeuroTaP Lab at The University of Texas at Austin is looking for individuals interested in participating in our exercise study! If you are a healthy... 12pm Health Discovery Building (HDB) Stories to Tell Exhibition @ Ransom Center Arts & Humanities The Harry Ransom Center houses some of the world's most significant collections relating to literature, art, photography, film, and the performing arts. The... 12pm Harry Ransom Center (HRC) Women and the Making of Joyce's Ulysses Arts & Humanities James Joyce's Ulysses, considered a landmark work of literary modernism, was first published on February 2, 1922. This exhibition marks the 100th anniversary... 12pm Harry Ransom Center (HRC) Paid Emotion and Memory Brain Imaging Study: Adults Needed Research Opportunities & Studies The Dunsmoor Lab at Dell Medical School is conducting a research study that examines how emotional experiences shape our learning and memory. We are... 2pm Health Discovery Building (HDB) Sunday Afternoon Riichi Mahjong Sports & Recreation Come learn/play Riichi (Japanese Mahjong) with us! Join our Discord (https://discord.gg/pJQfZB5zrK) to get notified of the latest events and meet other... 2pm On campus Watch ThisI'm Interested Apply to LIFT Today! Apply to the Longhorn Impact Fellowship at Texas (LIFT)! LIFT pairs student consultants with companies and nonprofits to help solve sustainability-related... 4pm University of Texas Softball at #11 Washington Sports & Recreation University of Texas Softball at #11 Washington TV: ESPN+ Radio: 105.3 FM Streaming Video:... 5pm Seattle, Wash. Watch ThisI'm Interested University of Texas Women's Tennis vs Oklahoma Sports & Recreation University of Texas Women's Tennis vs Oklahoma Streaming Video: https://t1.app.link/ncaa2022 Tickets:... 7pm Champaign, Illinois Watch ThisI'm Interested Red River Ensemble Orchestra rehearsals Arts & Humanities Do you want to join a new orchestra to bring music to hospital patients? UT Austin faculty, staff, and trainees are invited to join the Red River Ensemble,... 7:30pm Dell Seton Medical Center , First floor Atrium ← → Sunday, May 22 Submit an Event/Announcement All Events Places to Go Groups Switch to April 2022 Switch to June 2022 May Calendar Date Navigation S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 View Today Calendar View by Day Week Month Next 30 Days Sort options Sort by Date Name Popularity Hide Recurring Events Hide Recurring Events Experience All Experiences In-Person Virtual Event / Announcement Types Type All Types Research Opportunities & Studies (33) Arts & Humanities (10) Health & Wellness (6) Sports & Recreation (5) Academics (3) Science & Tech (2) › Entrepreneurship & Innovation (1) World & Culture (2) Campus & Community (1) › Free Speech Week (0) › Longhorn Welcome (0) › Sustainability (0) Diversity (1) Business & Economy (0) Policy & Law (0) Social Justice (0) Show More Departments Department All Departments Dell Medical School (14) All Departments (12) College of Education (5) School of Nursing (2) Cockrell School of Engineering (1) College of Liberal Arts (1) College of Natural Sciences (1) McCombs School of Business (1) School of Information (1) College of Fine Arts (0) › Butler School of Music (0) › Department of Art & Art History (0) › Department of Theatre and Dance (0) › Landmarks (0) › School of Design and Creative Technologies (0) › Texas Performing Arts (0) › Visual Arts Center (0) Expand College of Pharmacy (0) Division of Diversity and Community Engagement (0) Division of Student Affairs (0) Jackson School of Geosciences (0) LBJ School of Public Affairs (0) Moody College of Communication (0) › Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life (0) › Center for Health Communication (0) › Center for Media Engagement (0) › Center for Sports Communication & Media (0) › Communication and Leadership (0) › Communication Sciences and Disorders (0) › Communication Studies (0) › Journalism (0) › Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas (0) › KUT/KUTX (0) › Moody College Honors Program (0) › Moody Writing Support Program (0) › Radio-Television-Film (0) › Stan Richards School of Advertising and Public Relations (0) › UT in Los Angeles Program (UTLA) (0) Expand Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost (0) Office of the President (0) Office of the Vice President for Research (0) › Good Systems (0) › Planet Texas 2050 (0) › Whole Communities – Whole Health (0) School of Architecture (0) School of Law (0) School of Social Work (0) School of Undergraduate Studies (0) University of Texas Libraries (0) University Operations (0) UT in New York Program (UTNY) (0) Show More Target Audience Target Audience All Target Audiences Students (36) General Public (35) Staff (20) Faculty (16) Alumni (15) Families (12) Show More Import Type Import Type All Import Types Texas Sports (4) COFA (0) › COFA/Art & Art History (0) › COFA/College of Fine Arts (0) › COFA/School of Design and Creative Technologies (0) › COFA/School of Music (0) › COFA/Theatre & Dance (0) › COFA/Visual Arts Center (0) Expand Hornslink (0) Know Events (0) Campus Announcements Campus Announcement All Campus Announcements Volunteer (24) Apply (4) Nominate (1) Register (1) Research Opportunities Research Opportunity All Research Opportunities Paid (28) Unpaid (4) Student Organizations Student Organization All Student Organizations Hornslink (0) Subscribe to These Results Google Calendar Apple iCal Outlook RSS The University of Texas at Austin Academic Calendars Holiday Calendar Subscribe to our newsletter Related Links UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2020 Powered by the Localist Community Events Calendar © Login to Texas Today: UT Events & Announcements Calendar Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with School ID