By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Search people (directory) Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map Campus Shuttle History News & Magazine Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Sport & Human Performance Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Give Calendar Events Mar. 21, 2022 Melissa Catanese: The Lottery About Admissions Academics Life Athletics Arts and Performance Melissa Catanese: The Lottery March 21, 2022 – July 22, 2022 EDT Light Work Light Work presents The Lottery a solo exhibition of new works by Pittsburgh-based photographer Melissa Catanese. In The Lottery, Catanese turns her attention to the tense and confusing state of contemporary politics and culture. Her images bring together large groups of people, barren caverns, natural forces, physical exertion, and eruptions both crude and colorful. The accumulated manic puzzle shifts the viewer from crowded street to darkened cavern. Along the way, we see a geyser of oil, streaks of lightning, veins of molten rock, and cooling craters. Punctuating these natural phenomena are people in states of glee, pain, confusion, and anguish. Light Work will host an opening reception with Catanese on Thursday, March 24, from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. A 6:00 p.m. artist talk with Catanese about her current solo exhibition, The Lottery will be followed by a Q&A with reception guests. The reception and artist talk is free and open to the public. Learn more This event was published on March 23, 2022. Event Details Link Category Arts and Performance Type Exhibitions Region Campus Open to Public Cost Free Group Coalition of Museum and Art Centers (CMAC) Contact Cjala Surratt cjala@lightwork.org 3154431300 Accessibility Contact Cjala Surratt to request accommodations Parking Limited metered parking is available on Waverly Avenue and paid parking is available in the Booth Parking Garage. Visit parking.syr.edu for more information on parking and directions to the galleries. Map and Location Light Work 316 Waverly Pl. Syracuse, NY 13210 View larger map Add to Calendar Download event details [ICS, 3KB] Add to Google Calendar Related Events salt/city/blues June 9, 2022 at 7:30pm – June 26, 2022 at 10:00pm Syracuse Stage Annual Gala June 23, 2022 at 6:00pm – 9:00pm Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Find People (Directory) Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Website Feedback Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard Student Email Faculty & Staff Email Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Like Syracuse on Facebook Follow Syracuse on Twitter Subscribe to Syracuse on YouTube Follow Syracuse on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy