Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Dartmouth Campaign Logo About Strategic Priorities Campaign Leadership Campaign Events Campaign Goals Dartmouth’s Distinctive Educational Model Discoveries to Benefit Humankind Educating Wise Leaders Giving Opportunities Ways to Give Your Impact Stories Why I Give Act Now Search About The Call to Lead is a bold invitation to Dartmouth’s global community to engage with the great issues of this century and the next—all in a distinctly Dartmouth manner that attracts the greatest student and faculty talent, cultivates our pioneering spirit, and fully transcends campus boundaries. More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. About Strategic Priorities Campaign Leadership Campaign Events Dartmouth—an Ivy League School in a League of Its Own Today, more than ever, the world needs energetic, broadly educated leaders who can identify and analyze problems, develop solutions, and act. The Call to Lead will create these leaders, today and tomorrow. And Dartmouth’s distinctive model will empower them to improve the lives of people in countless ways. The time to act is now. Dartmouth has raised its sights under the team of academic leaders assembled by President Phil Hanlon ’77. Remarkable examples of what can be achieved are emerging across campus. The Call to Lead invites the global Dartmouth community to respond to this unprecedented ambition. A $3 billion comprehensive campaign will support the people, projects, and facilities needed to realize this vision. Three bold goals support The Call to Lead campaign: Advancing Dartmouth’s distinctive educational model to its fullest expression. Pursuing discoveries that benefit humankind, and Preparing students for lives of wise leadership. We’ve committed to achieving those big goals through nine strategic priorities—major initiatives that, together, will uplift every aspect of Dartmouth. “With The Call to Lead, we’re investing strategically in our intertwined model of teaching and scholarship, our faculty, and our students. We’re going to be even more deliberate, more intentional in how we prepare future leaders.” —Laurel Richie ’81, chair of the Dartmouth Board of Trustees Give Now Support the Dartmouth College Fund Give Now View All Opportunities Home</svg></a>
      </div>

      Copyright © 2021 Dartmouth College All rights reserved About Contact Us Privacy Hanover, NH 03755 USA calltolead@dartmouth.edu (603) 646-1904 Facebook Twitter Instagram