Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Dartmouth Campaign Logo About Strategic Priorities Campaign Leadership Campaign Events Campaign Goals Dartmouth’s Distinctive Educational Model Discoveries to Benefit Humankind Educating Wise Leaders Giving Opportunities Ways to Give Your Impact Stories Why I Give Act Now Search Educating Wise Leaders Tomorrow’s immense challenges will require leaders able to think critically, communicate effectively, and work comfortably across multiple cultures. You can invest in those future leaders at Dartmouth today. Dartmouth alumni disproportionately make their mark as leaders in the private sector, public service, and non profits. Through The Call to Lead, we will greatly enhance our ability to prepare the next generation of leaders to imagine, anticipate, and create in a dynamic and unpredictable world. The Call to Lead will develop student leaders through intentional, experiential opportunities for students to lead, serve, and participate in teams. We’re creating a new, comprehensive program to introduce all students to the principles and qualities of wise leadership. It will engage our undergraduates for all four years through the community-based learning framework of our house communities—and it will be an essential element of the Dartmouth experience. This initiative will connect with multiple existing programs, such as Dartmouth Peak Performance, already serving nearly 1,000 student-athletes, and the Center for Social Impact, which prepares students—through hands-on, community-driven learning—to be transformative leaders for the common good. Leadership Development for Undergraduates Help us create a comprehensive, four-year leadership program for all undergraduates. Give Now Invest in Tomorrow's Leaders TodayView All Dartmouth Scholarship Endowments Moments like these prove we need well-educated future leaders. You can help us train them. Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model Wise Leaders Give Now Friends of Rockefeller Center Help prepare the next generation of public policy leaders. Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model Wise Leaders Give Now Leadership Development for Undergraduates Help us create a comprehensive, four-year leadership program for all undergraduates. Wise Leaders Give Now From Campus Leader to Military Leader New army officer Rachael Rhee ’16 reflects on her Dartmouth experience.Read More Determination and Grit Mar 19, 2018 Vivian Bhushan MED'20 is pursuing medicine to help underserved populations access care.Learn More A Nonprofit Creating Real Social Change Mar 4, 2018 Morgan Blackburn ’13 collaborates on social change strategies in corporate relations, fundraising, marketing, and special events.Learn More Give Now Support the Dartmouth College Fund Give Now View All Opportunities Home</svg></a>
      </div>

      Copyright © 2021 Dartmouth College All rights reserved About Contact Us Privacy Hanover, NH 03755 USA calltolead@dartmouth.edu (603) 646-1904 Facebook Twitter Instagram