Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Dartmouth Campaign Logo About Strategic Priorities Campaign Leadership Campaign Events Campaign Goals Dartmouth’s Distinctive Educational Model Discoveries to Benefit Humankind Educating Wise Leaders Giving Opportunities Ways to Give Your Impact Stories Why I Give Act Now Search Why I Give Gifts of all sizes make an impact. These donors share why they answered The Call to Lead. “In memory of my parents, Richard ‘Dick’ Trowbridge (Class of 1954) and Marjory Trowbridge, who brought me to many Dartmouth home and away sporting events, which forever has made me love the Big Green. Thanks, Mom and Dad. Love you.” Richard Trowbridge Jr. “I did an internship through this organization, then called the Tucker Foundation, at Kicking Horse Job Corps Center in Montana in 1984, that was a very important part of my college experience and personal development. I want to support students getting that kind of opportunity. P.S. Riding my bicycle back from Montana on a 4,000-mile trip was another component.” Mark Allen ’85 “Dartmouth instilled in me a love of learning, passion, and lifelong friends. Dartmouth also gave me granite—the strength to live life to its fullest—through the wonder and the difficulties. Dartmouth gave me the vision to see open doors and opportunities and has enriched my life more than I could have imagined.” Laurie Laidlaw ’79 “Dartmouth has had a major influence on our family’s life. My husband was a 1955 and was in his second year at Tuck School when we met. My son was a 1985 grad and one of his sons was 2020 and his second son will finish this year, Class of 2022. They’ve all loved the Dartmouth experience and benefited greatly from it. I’ve been there many times and have wonderful memories of our early days and all the friends my husband, Barry Rubens, made—and we’ve kept in touch all these years. A very special place.” Barbara Rubens W’55 “Going to college and specifically Dartmouth changed my life—and I want to be sure that others have this opportunity.” Ana Sanchez ’97 “I believe so strongly in women supporting women.” Carly Haggard ’03 “The women friends I made at Dartmouth have been my rock and support system for over 30 years. Taking part in this campaign with them is a privilege.” Melissa Ridgley Biondi ’92 “I give so that the students of today and tomorrow can have the same opportunities that the alumni of the past provided to me!” W. Kyle Gore ’84 View All Give Now Support the Dartmouth College Fund Give Now View All Opportunities Home</svg></a>
      </div>

      Copyright © 2021 Dartmouth College All rights reserved About Contact Us Privacy Hanover, NH 03755 USA calltolead@dartmouth.edu (603) 646-1904 Facebook Twitter Instagram