Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Dartmouth Campaign Logo About Strategic Priorities Campaign Leadership Campaign Events Campaign Goals Dartmouth’s Distinctive Educational Model Discoveries to Benefit Humankind Educating Wise Leaders Giving Opportunities Ways to Give Your Impact Stories Why I Give Act Now Search Find your Giving Opportunity Find your Giving Opportunity Your gift to support students through financial aid initiatives will strengthen the Dartmouth experience for all students, now and in the future. You’ll help ensure that Dartmouth can continue to attract and retain the next generation of adaptable leaders—no matter their financial circumstances. Together, let’s seize this moment and answer our call to lead. Featured Opportunities Dartmouth College Fund: The Full Dartmouth Experience Your support makes the full Dartmouth experience possible for deserving students. Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model Wise Leaders Dartmouth Undergraduate Scholarships for International Students Help Dartmouth bring together students from all lands and backgrounds to learn in a thriving environment. Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model Wise Leaders Dartmouth Hall 250th Anniversary Alumnae Scholarship Fund Help attract the most talented students to Dartmouth based on their abilities—not their ability to pay. Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model Wise Leaders Koop Scholars in Prevention Science Support student research aimed at the marketing of e-cigarettes, alcohol, and processed foods Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model Big Bets on Discovery Wise Leaders Faculty Excellence in the Arts and Humanities Support the scholarship and teaching of current and future faculty through a gift to this endowment. Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model Big Bets on Discovery 51% funded $100K goal Support Undergraduate Research Give the gift of life-changing, faculty-mentored research to Dartmouth undergraduates. Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model 73% funded $150K goal How to Give by Check Give via check made payable to Trustees of Dartmouth College with the intended purpose included in the memo section or accompanying correspondence. Checks should be mailed to: Gift Recording Office 6066 Development Office Hanover, NH 03755-4400 More Ways to Give Focus Your Gift From faculty-led research to leadership development to outdoor experiences—find your passion and make an impact. Explore the possibilities! Search by keywords Priority Cause Area Priority Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model Leadership in Action Big Bets on Discovery Wise Leaders Cause Arts Athletics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Entrepreneurship Financial Aid & Access Global Issues Health Care Leadership & Policy Research & Teaching Residential Life Student Experience Area Arctic Institute Arts & Sciences Arts District Dickey Center Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Irving Institute Norris Cotton Cancer Center Rockefeller Center Thayer School of Engineering The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice The West End Tuck School of Business View All You searched for giving opportunities matching these criteria: Sort by Title % Complete Results: 162 Opportunities Academic Enrichment Fund for Asian American and Pacific Islander Communities Support teaching and research on Asian American and Pacific Islander Communities to expand cultural understanding and support across campus. Give Now Academic Enrichment Fund for the Study of Race, Ethnicity, and Migration Support teaching and research on Race, Ethnicity, and Migration to advance understanding and support of a more equitable environment. Give Now African and African American Academic Enrichment Fund Help support a diverse and inclusive campus—and world. Give Now Arctic Experiential Learning Fund Help make hands-on learning possible for tomorrow's Arctic scholars. Give Now Arctic Special Collections Fund Support the digitizing and maintenance of Dartmouth's Stefansson Collection on Polar Exploration. Give Now Athletic Director's Fund for Excellence Strengthen Dartmouth's sports programs to provide a winning experience for our students. Give Now Athletic Sponsor Program Together, we can ensure that Big Green teams will be as competitive as possible. Give Now Athletics Coaching and Support Positions Support DP2 positions to help our student-athletes achieve their full potential. Give Now The Baker Main Hall campaign is fully funded Baker Main Hall Baker Library's Main Hall is the crossroads of campus. Please help preserve this historic space. Give Now Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Give Now Support the Dartmouth College Fund Give Now View All Opportunities Home</svg></a>
      </div>

      Copyright © 2021 Dartmouth College All rights reserved About Contact Us Privacy Hanover, NH 03755 USA calltolead@dartmouth.edu (603) 646-1904 Facebook Twitter Instagram