Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Dartmouth Campaign Logo About Strategic Priorities Campaign Leadership Campaign Events Campaign Goals Dartmouth’s Distinctive Educational Model Discoveries to Benefit Humankind Educating Wise Leaders Giving Opportunities Ways to Give Your Impact Stories Why I Give Act Now Search Dartmouth’s Distinctive Educational Model Dartmouth is a fusion of the very best liberal arts college and highest-quality research university. Your investment will make it the preeminent institution for teachers and scholars. Dartmouth's commitment to an incomparable student experience begins by placing topflight teacher-scholars in the classroom. These teachers are the drivers behind our educational preeminence. They lead innovative, challenging, and creative classes—and they are readily available to their students outside of classroom hours. They are outstanding scholars who bring new research-based knowledge back to their students. "I'm able to bring my research into the classroom and share it... we explore together." - Lisa Baldez, Professor of Government Dartmouth is committed to being the preeminent institution for this distinctive educational model. Through The Call to Lead campaign, we will provide powerful support to current and prospective faculty who strive to embody the teacher-scholar model: We’ll bolster programs in the humanities, sciences, and social sciences where Dartmouth is poised to be a national leader, and will strengthen our ability to attract highly sought-after scholars—and expand support for all of our faculty throughout their careers. With additional support, the Center for Undergraduate Research will double the number of undergraduates who publish or present original research by their senior year. The Dartmouth Center for the Advancement of Learning will partner with faculty to incorporate new teaching methodologies, create new courses, and develop avenues to get undergraduates into their labs—and we intend to offer even more professional development opportunities to our faculty. As the distance between the classroom and the frontiers of knowledge diminishes, students are also integrated into more experiential learning opportunities—where they begin making their own contributions during their undergraduate years. The Call to Lead campaign will support and accelerate this intensive, time-consuming, and incredibly rewarding educational model. Faculty Excellence Fund Help provide the highest levels of support for our outstanding teacher-scholars. Give Now Support Dartmouth's Commitment to Extraordinary Teaching and ResearchView All Koop Scholars in Prevention Science Support student research aimed at the marketing of e-cigarettes, alcohol, and processed foods Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model Big Bets on Discovery Wise Leaders Give Now Support Undergraduate Research Give the gift of life-changing, faculty-mentored research to Dartmouth undergraduates. Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model 73% funded $150K goal Give Now Create New Courses Support innovation in the liberal arts by underwriting new courses in evolving fields of study. Dartmouth's Distinct Educational Model Give Now "Real and Rewarding" Five Thayer students immerse themselves in a week of on-site, real-time engineering.Read More Inaugural Rassias Award Celebrates Lifelong Learning May 25, 2017 Professors Steve Swayne and Don Pease accept inaugural Professor John Rassias Award for Faculty Commitment to Lifelong LearningLearn More Archaeology Students Probe Dartmouth's Underground History Mar 16, 2018 Professor Jesse Casana's class uses remote sensing tools to search for old buildings beneath Baker lawn.Learn More Professor Recalls His Year at Google Mar 16, 2018 Andrew Campbell gained a sense of how Dartmouth training stacks up against industry needs.Learn More Give Now Support the Dartmouth College Fund Give Now View All Opportunities Home</svg></a>
      </div>

      Copyright © 2021 Dartmouth College All rights reserved About Contact Us Privacy Hanover, NH 03755 USA calltolead@dartmouth.edu (603) 646-1904 Facebook Twitter Instagram