Skip to main content UC Berkeley Cal Parents & Families Toggle navigation Visit CampanileView468 Ready to see Berkeley for yourself? Find information about campus tours and highlights, planning your day and traveling to campus. Visit submenu 1 Visitor Services Directions & parking Campus map Visiting the Campanile Campus museums Lodging & dining Academics Academics468 At Berkeley, the greatest minds come together to address the world’s most pertinent challenges. Explore academic departments, interdisciplinary research units and academic resources to help your student. Schools & colleges Departments & programs Advising & tutoring Finances FinAid468 Find the facts, forms and resources you need to estimate and apply for aid from our financial aid and scholarships office. Cost of attendance Estimate financial aid Apply for aid Campus life CampusLife468 Our students come from different places and backgrounds, but together they create a diverse and kinetic community. Explore campus services to help your student feel at home at Berkeley. Health & safety Housing & dining Equity & inclusion Events & attractions Student organizations Cal athletics Get Involved StudentsSather_1200_Zhukova Ready to get involved? Find out about opportunities to become an advocate and representative of the campus community. Cal Parents & Families ambassadors Cal Parents & Families board Update Parent Info Give When you give to Berkeley, you help support the entire campus community. Choose a particular program to support or make an unrestricted gift. Give now Annual giving Leadership giving Recognition programs Letter Home Letter Home is a newsletter for parents and families of Cal students Letter Home Get started cp-get-started Welcome new Cal Parents! Your family’s Berkeley experience has just begun. Your student is now responsible for all of their tasks and deadlines, however, to give parents peace of mind, we are offering parents an insight into their new responsibilities. The links on the right provide you with an understanding of what and when students take care of their assigned tasks. Go Bears! Getting started Golden Bear advising Golden Bear prep Golden Bear Orientation for Parents and Supporters Keegan Houser Welcome, Cal Parents & Families UC Berkeley is a community like no other. It’s energized by a daily flood of new ideas, and enriched by a diverse student body. It’s enlivened by art, culture, sports and by the best minds anywhere. Your student helps make Berkeley what it is — the world’s premier public university. And we’re here to help you discover all that Berkeley has to offer. Important dates May30 Academic and Administrative Holiday Jun06 Summer Session B - 10-Week Session Begins Jun21 Summer Session C - 8-Week Session Begins More events New Golden Bears Start Here Messages from campus In rollicking ceremony, UC Berkeley graduates cap a challenging college education (5/17/2022) In times of crisis, 2022 University Medal finalists summoned resilience, hope (5/10/2022) In top graduating senior, East Coast grit meets Berkeley utopianism (5/9/2022) Read more > People's Park Housing A Renewed People's Park Discover the Cal Parents & Families program Play Discover the Cal Parents & Families program Video Press ESC to close video dialog × Discover the Cal Parents & Families program Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on https://calparents.berkeley.edu: Discover the Cal Parents & Families program Close Berkeley News Latest news from campus How to Pay Your Student's Bill Payment Options Resource Guide For Cal Parents & Families A resource guide to help guide your student (English, Spanish and Chinese) Cal Central – Delegate Access for Finances and Enrollment Play Cal Central – Delegate Access for Finances and Enrollment Video Press ESC to close video dialog × Cal Central – Delegate Access for Finances and Enrollment Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on https://calparents.berkeley.edu: Cal Central – Delegate Access for Finances and Enrollment Close Browse Berkeley news Campus events calendar Follow us Cal Parents & Families on Facebook Resources Campus directory Campus map About us Cal Parents & Families staff Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Notice - The latest updates on the evolving COVID-19 policies and resources for the campus community. View Details. [X] Close