Skip to main content Cornell Cooperative Extension is a collaboration between The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and The College of Human Ecology. Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Main navigation Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices About People News & Stories Extension Out Loud Podcast Navigation Main mobile navigation Our Work Our Work Overview Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Join Us Overview Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices Local Offices Overview About About Overview People News & Stories News & Stories Overview Extension Out Loud Podcast Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants CCE Summer Internship Program Breadcrumb Home CCE Join Us Faculty and staff from the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) and the College of Human Ecology (CHE) along with extension educators from Cornell Cooperative Extension (CCE) local offices engage undergraduate students in extension projects in New York state communities. From research to education to outreach, interns are involved in a wide spectrum of activities which they document through detailed, personalized student journals. Summer findings and experiences are presented in the fall semester at the CCE Summer Internship Reception with campus and CCE association leaders, faculty and CCE Extension Administration staff in attendance. The deadline to submit applications is March 1, 2022. Please contact aad78 [at] cornell.edu (Alyssa Dray) with questions. Play CCE 2019 Interns | Their Own Voice 2022 Summer Internships CALS Summer Projects Developing Commercial Guidelines for Pawpaw NetZero: Dairy Sustainability Key Performance Indicators New York State Tick Blitz Growing Relevant and Outstanding Work Skills (GROWS) for Unemployed Young Adults from Underserved Neighborhoods Impacted by Gun Violence Through an Urban Farm Meeting Program NYS Dept. of Ag and Markets, Division of Food Safety and Inspection Digital Agriculture Exploration for 4-H Youth: Geospatial Connections Plant-rich Eating Plan of Work Developing a Picture of Solar Development Needs Assessment for Mobile Farmers Markets Effects of implementing optimal sampling and diet reformulation practices in milk production and profitability of NYS dairy farms Integrated Pest Management tactics to reduce the impact of the invasive Spotted lanternfly in grapes in the Hudson Valley Conservation Biocontrol on Urban Farms in NYC Helping Grape Growers Trial Mycorrhizal Inoculants Association of Food & Drug Officials and NYS Department of Ag and Markets Division of Food Safety Internship Back to list of careers Developing Commercial Guidelines for Pawpaw The goal of this project is to help develop a growing guide for New York's Pawpaw farmers. Read more about the Developing Commercial Guidelines for Pawpaw, a Novel Commercial Tree Fruit internship. Back to list of careers NetZero: Dairy Sustainability Key Performance Indicators The NetZero: Dairy Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Internship project aims to provide dairy farmers with practical, whole-farm solutions that help to reduce their environmental footprint while improving farm efficiency and economics. Read more about the NetZero: Dairy Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Internship opportunity. Back to list of careers New York State Tick Blitz For this project, the summer intern will help to organize a "tick blitz" in the southern Hudson Valley region of New York state to determine the presence and distribution of the newly invasive Asian longhorned tick and the Lonestar tick. Read more and apply for the intern blog for the New York State Tick Blitz project. Back to list of careers Growing Relevant and Outstanding Work Skills (GROWS) for Unemployed Young Adults from Underserved Neighborhoods Impacted by Gun Violence Through an Urban Farm Meeting Program Recruiting participants through our many nonprofit partners and Rochester Works, we will enroll 5 young adults, who come from neighborhoods where gun violence has been an issue and who are unemployed. The program will include basic horticulture education, utilizing our outdoor classroom area, and hands-on experiential learning from prepping vegetable beds, planting seeds and starter plants, maintaining those plants, building compost in our compost bins, harvesting produce, and sowing cover crops as we put the farm to bed for the winter... Read more about the project and apply. Back to list of careers NYS Dept. of Ag and Markets, Division of Food Safety and Inspection For this project, the selected student will assist in the review of data in support of improvements to the Food Safety regulatory, compliance and educational outreach programs provided to the NYS food manufacturing and retail industry in NYS. Read more about the NYS Dept. of Ag and Markets, Division of Food Safety and Inspection internship and apply. Back to list of careers Digital Agriculture Exploration for 4-H Youth: Geospatial Connections The 2022 CCE Summer Intern would work with Cornell faculty to research and identify key concepts of digital agriculture and working with county educators integrate them into hands-on activities for youth and suitable for use in camps, clubs, and afterschool programs. Read more and apply for the Digital Agriculture Exploration for 4-H Youth: Geospatial Connections internship. Back to list of careers Plant-rich Eating Plan of Work The goal of this internship is to further educational and applied research activities consistent with the CCE Plant-Rich Eating plan of work. Read more about the project and apply for the internship. Back to list of careers Developing a Picture of Solar Development The goal of this internship will be to compile a series of case studies that detail the landowner’s experience when they develop agricultural land for solar. Read more and apply for the Developing a Picture of Solar Development internship. Back to list of careers Needs Assessment for Mobile Farmers Markets This intern will assist with our Mobile Farmers Markets to help identify community needs via a needs assessment. The needs assessment primary goal would be to seek additional locations needing to be served. Read more about the project and apply for the internship. Back to list of careers Effects of implementing optimal sampling and diet reformulation practices in milk production and profitability of NYS dairy farms This project involves measuring the production and economic impacts of implementing our proposed protocol on 4 NYS commercial dairy farms. Read more about the project and apply for the internship. Back to list of careers Integrated Pest Management tactics to reduce the impact of the invasive Spotted lanternfly in grapes in the Hudson Valley This project supports ongoing efforts on early detection and rapid response, the development of management tactics to reduce the impact of SLF in grapes in the Hudson Valley, and implementation of educational efforts to farmers and spanish-speaking farm workers. Read more about the Integrated Pest Management tactics to reduce the impact of the invasive Spotted lanternfly in grapes in the Hudson Valley project and apply! Back to list of careers Conservation Biocontrol on Urban Farms in NYC The goal of this 3-year project is to help urban NYC growers improve their management of arthropod pests by attracting and conserving natural enemies. Read more about the Conservation Biocontrol on Urban Farms in NYC project and apply! Back to list of careers Helping Grape Growers Trial Mycorrhizal Inoculants With guidance from mentors, this intern will work with three North Fork growers to help them trial and evaluate the impact of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi inoculation on a small portion of their vines via nonreplicated comparisons. Learn more about the Helping Grape Growers Trial Mycorrhizal Inoculants internship opportunity and apply. Back to list of careers Association of Food & Drug Officials and NYS Department of Ag and Markets Division of Food Safety Internship During the summer internship, the intern will work with the Division of Food Safety and Inspection on the development of a virtual inspection program framework. This work may require the intern to conduct online research, schedule and hold webinars and/or phone calls with other regulatory programs to gather information, review existing policies and procedures, and write procedures for the implementation of a virtual inspection program in New York State. Read more about the Association of Food & Drug Officials and NYS Department of Ag and Markets Division of Food Safety Internship. CHE Summer Projects 4-H Viticulture Program Development Choose Health Action Teen Mentors Two-Generation Program "PS: It Works!" Empowering Parents Through Play Exploring Youth’s Concerns About Climate Change Family support for families of gender diverse children Farmers Market Nutrition Program Internship Flus and Floods: Getting the Gist of Natural Disaster Risks Playful Plants II Using Mobile Brain-Body Imaging to Develop an Evidence-based Cognitive Agent Framework (EBCAF) for Computational Spatial Navigation Simulation Back to list of careers 4-H Viticulture Program Development The purpose of the internship is to utilize a newly developed 4-H Viticulture curriculum in the 4-H program in NYS, directly connect 4-H to CCE regional viticulture, generate a database of viticulture network and educational resources specifically for youth, and build a model for 4-H programming. Read more and apply for the 4-H Viticulture Program Development internship. Back to list of careers Choose Health Action Teen Mentors During the summer of 2022, in addition to training and supporting the teen leaders, we wish to focus on further building the capacity of agency leaders to support the CHAT project at their sites by strengthening their knowledge about CHFFF and CHAT, providing orientation sessions for the site leaders, and engaging the CHE intern in the process of developing strategies to support this goal. Read more and apply to be part of the Choose Health Action Teens (CHAT): Community-Extension Collaboration with Cornell Students Engaged as Teen Mentors project. Back to list of careers Two-Generation Program "PS: It Works!" The "PS: It Works!" curriculum is originally designed for adults, specifically parents or caregivers of children. CCE parent educators are in the process of adapting the program to a two-generation approach, developing adaptations to the curriculum so youth will be able to participate in the workshop in conjunction with their parent/caregiver. Read more and apply to the Two-Generation Program "PS: It Works!" project. Back to list of careers Empowering Parents Through Play The Empowering Parents through Play Project aims to implement and evaluate the delivery of parenting education workshops designed to improve early child language acquisition and spatial skills development and to address achievement gaps experienced by children in marginalized communities. Read more and apply to the Empowering Parents Through Play project. Back to list of careers Exploring Youth’s Concerns About Climate Change This project aims to learn from children and youth living in New York City and across New York State about how they feel about climate change. Read more about the Exploring Youth's Concerns About Climate Change project and apply. Back to list of careers Family support for families of gender diverse children This project will fill a perceived need that CCE Suffolk has in parent education programming. The intern will research and develop a program and related materials that support families with gender diverse children. Read more and apply for the Family Support: Educational Resources for Families of Gender Diverse Children project. Back to list of careers Farmers Market Nutrition Program Internship The intern will work collaboratively with campus and CCE Wayne FMNP staff to revise and update the FMNP nutrition curriculum, assess reactions to lessons and materials, document customer reaction and knowledge change, and assist in the revision of these materials and tools. Read more and apply for the Farmers Market Nutrition Program Internship. Back to list of careers Flus and Floods: Getting the Gist of Natural Disaster Risks This project will investigate people’s perceptions of risk for two kinds of natural disasters, infectious disease, and natural hazards, specifically, flu outbreaks and flooding. Read more and apply for the Flus and Floods: Getting the Gist of Natural Disaster Risks Internship. Back to list of careers Playful Plants II This is the second year of the continuing "Playful Plants" project, whose objective is to provide resources and awareness to encourage children’s engagement with nature in both playspaces and public gardens. Read more about the Playful Plants II project. Back to list of careers Using Mobile Brain-Body Imaging to Develop an Evidence-based Cognitive Agent Framework (EBCAF) for Computational Spatial Navigation Simulation The overarching goal of this research is to design technologies that improve the relationship between people and their created environment. The proposed research will develop and apply new methods for collecting rigorous data about human behaviors during navigational tasks in complex buildings. Read more about the Using Mobile Brain-Body Imaging to Develop an Evidence-based Cognitive Agent Framework (EBCAF) for Computational Spatial Navigation Simulation Internship. Einhorn Center Summer Projects Illustrating Botanicals for Wild Edibles Curriculum Move forward upstate New York: Building knowledge from poverty research Student Resource Navigator Program Supporting SHINE (Solar Horizons Informed Network of Educators) Growing Sustainable 4-H Clubs and Experiences Creating Our Futures: A Resilient Communities Knowledge-to-Action Network Back to list of careers Illustrating Botanicals for Wild Edibles Curriculum The projected outcomes of participation in this project will be a collaboration with First Nations knowledge, practical knowledge of wild edible botanicals, the ability to be part of addressing food insecurity, increased knowledge of the structure of wild edible botanicals, and the ability to have a byline in the curriculum and deliverables for the created art. Read more and apply to the Illustrating Botanicals for Wild Edibles Curriculum project. Back to list of careers Move forward upstate New York: Building knowledge from poverty research The interns will analyze data for the eleven study counties, including interviews gathered by eleven CCE associations, including Chemung, Tioga, Steuben, Tompkins, Cortland, Columbia-Greene, Hamilton, Jefferson, Suffolk, Wayne, and Monroe. The conclusions from this analysis will then be articulated in bulleted form and shared with the staff who gathered the data. Read more and apply to the Move Forward Upstate New York: Building Knowledge from Poverty Research internship. Back to list of careers Student Resource Navigator Program Cornell Cooperative Extension Tompkins County is launching a new health equity project in partnership with Cayuga Health Partners that will build the capacity of health care providers to address patients' social needs. The Student Resource Navigator Program will deploy students as navigators in health care settings to initiate and track referrals to community resources that improve health and well-being. Read more and apply to the Student Resource Navigator Program internship. Back to list of careers Supporting SHINE (Solar Horizons Informed Network of Educators) The student would work closely with the CCE educator and faculty contact to conduct a kind of snowball sample survey of key contacts involved in LSR research and education. The purpose would be to assess and record the contacts' work on solar, their interest in SHINE participation, resources they might recommend, etc. The student would similarly conduct an online search for contact, programs and resources that could be made accessible to SHINE participants in a shared online database. Read more and apply to the Supporting SHINE (Solar Horizons Informed Network of Educators) project. Back to list of careers Growing Sustainable 4-H Clubs and Experiences This project will support youth mental health and social emotional learning by creating sustainable 4-H experiences for youth who attend Eugenio Maria de Hostos Charter School in Rochester, New York. The 4-H Program at CCE-Monroe has a strong relationship with students at the middle school through a 4-H UNITY (Urban Neighborhoods Improved Through Youth) project and would like to bridge that relationship to high school to offer opportunities. By creating this opportunity, 4-H participants will benefit from the continued interaction with adults, feel a continued sense of belonging to 4-H, develop life skills, and be able to give to others. Read more and apply to the Growing Sustainable 4-H Clubs and Experiences project. Back to list of careers Creating Our Futures: A Resilient Communities Knowledge-to-Action Network This internship will support the development of the Creating Our Futures Network by working with three pilot site communities involved with the Network to identify: existing development initiatives, including those in the planning and implementation phases; resources within communities that are being, or could be, mobilized for development purposes; local, regional, state, and federal funding opportunities; networking platform models that might be adopted for the purposes of this project; prospective network members; case studies of university-community partnerships centering locally-driven community development initiatives; and projects involving Cornell faculty and students working on community development initiatives. Learn more and apply for the Creating Our Futures: A Resilient Communities Knowledge-to-Action Network project. Projects by Year 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2021 CALS Summer Projects Agriculture in the city Building a horse farm improvement program for New York state equine farms Comparing feeding schemes for lambs of grazing ewes Conservation biocontrol on urban farms in NYC Dairy sustainability key performance indicators Developing a brand strategy for Cortland County agricultural food products Implementation of quality management system software (Qualtrax®) Management of ticks in the northeast: surveillance and control product ARENA trials New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets’ Division of Food Safety and Inspection New York state tick blitz Understanding opportunities and barriers to colocation of solar and agricultural land use in Tioga County CHE Summer Projects 4-H sustainable food systems resource management Children and climate change Developing a two-generation approach to parenting a second time around Empowering parents through play Exploring school-community partnerships to support family resilience Farmers market nutrition program Playful plants: development of a guide for the effective integration of nature into children’s outdoor play spaces in the New York climatic zone Spreading the right message: how gist can flatten the COVID-19 curve Understanding effectiveness of textiles as virus prevention facemasks Using a nature-based virtual reality cognitive engagement environment for improving mood and stress states in older adults with mild cognitive impairment OEI Summer Projects Act for Change Anti-Racism Program Designing our Futures New York State 4-H Geospatial Science and Technology 2020 CALS Student Internships The following projects were carried out in the summer of 2020 by CALS students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. 4-H horse program development Internship Location: Cornell Cooperative Extension Chemung County Faculty: Lindsay Goodale, Department of Animal Science Student: Katie Callero Katie's Journal Project Summary Chemung County 4-H historically had a strong horse program with regional connections, but in recent years the horse program has waned, in part due to staff changes. Recently there has been an increased interest in the renewal of the regional horse program, and the region now has an opportunity to develop a strong equine educational program based on subject matter expertise at the county level. We are looking to provide education to both youth and club leaders, especially on current and emerging topics such as infectious disease epidemics in NYS, helmet safety, and concussion management. We are interested in developing training opportunities for equine volunteers to strengthen our volunteer base and enhance community participation. The two goals of the intern’s work in the county will be: 1) to implement a regional equine volunteer training day; and 2) to reinstate the inter-county youth educational and experiential equine experience, formerly called the "Inter-County Show." Agricultural weed identification for 4-H communities Internship Location: CCE Erie office Faculty: Antonio DiTommaso, SIPS - Soil and Crop Sciences Student: Bethany Schulteis Bethany's Journal Project Summary The purpose of the internship is to work with Cornell's Agricultural Weed ID Network to develop training and outreach materials on weed identification and management for 4-H youth and families. Weeds are a growing problem for New York farmers, particularly with the arrival of two aggressive herbicide-resistant weeds, Palmer amaranth and waterhemp. Weed identification is a great way to teach detailed observation skills and critical thinking, and can significantly benefit 4-H families. This project would extend the weed identification information being developed by the Weed ID Network into the 4-H realm through survey of existing materials, survey of current weed knowledge of 4-H youth and families, and development of training courses/games and outreach materials for use throughout the New York 4-H network. The materials will be tested at 2020 county fairs in coordination with the Erie and surrounding county 4-H programs, and presented to the 4-H PWT. The student will be fully supported from both campus and county collaborators. The campus mentor will meet weekly or bi-weekly with the student and county collaborator, and will attend one of the county fair events. The county collaborator and 4-H educator will guide the student through the data collection process, and both county and campus mentors will provide advice and feedback on material development. The intended outcome is a 4-H short course curriculum for weed identification with supporting outreach materials, tailored to New York's problem agricultural weeds and difficult-to-identify weed complexes. Field crops nutrient management applied research and extension internship Internship Location: CCE of Livingston County and NWNY Team Faculty: Quirine Ketterings, Department of Animal Science Student: Jacob Stanyard Jacob's Journal Project Summary Cornell Cooperative Extension NWNY Team Field Crops Specialists Jodi Putman and Mike Stanyard collaborate with the Nutrient Management Spear Program and other faculty programs at Cornell University on applied research and extension that aims to benefit field crop and dairy producers in a 9-county region of western New York. The CCE intern will help plan, conduct, analyze, and evaluate on-farm research with the team and participate in farmer education events focused on use of cover crops, nutrient management, and integrated pest management in field crop rotations. Cover cropping is increasingly done in the region, as farmers recognize the numerous benefits that cover crops can offer, but additional work is ongoing. A current study aims to determine: the most effective fall cover crop planting rate to enable planting into the established cover crop the following spring, and cover crop seed mixtures that minimize cost while maximizing beneficial impacts on soil health and farm productivity. In addition to the research, the intern will be involved in a series of farmer discussion group meetings and Tactical Agriculture Team (TAg) meetings for producers concerning the acceleration and adoption of cover crops and soil health related beneficial management practices in New York. 4-H program development: From farm to city – youth programming establishment in the city of Cortland Internship Location: City of Cortland and CCE Cortland County Faculty: Sarah Giroux, Global Development Student: Susan Armstrong Project Summary For many years, the 4-H Program of Cornell Cooperative Extension of Cortland County has been based primarily on the traditional rural 4-H club model. While 4-H has always had a strong presence in rural areas, it has not had much of a presence within the county’s largest city-Cortland. To better serve a more diverse youth population in the city of Cortland, the 2019 internship will be a research project to determine programmatic needs and access points where 4-H can strengthen opportunities for youth development within the city. The research will include consideration of projects from across other regions, within New York State, and a needs assessment for the City of Cortland. The goal is to increase opportunities for growth to youth populations who may not be familiar with, or have access to, traditional 4-H. This will include a review of the available opportunities of the Cortland Jr Fair as a showcase for youth development and approaches to increase relevance and interaction with youth housed within the city limits. Evaluating the Poverty Stoplight program Internship Location: CCE-Chemung County Faculty: Thomas A Hirschl, Global Development Student: Ayesha Mohammed Project Summary The intern will gather interview data from Poverty Stoplight program participants and case-control subjects, and analyze the data to determine if there are program effects. The experimental design is case-control where each participant is matched by a demographically (age, race, gender) comparable subject from a nonparticipating census tract, all within the city of Elmira. The outcomes will be comparisons on "poverty-free readiness" across the control and treatment groups, and analysis for a peer-reviewed research journal. Second, the analysis will be used to produce an extension bulletin on "new methods for fighting poverty in your local community." Evaluation and enhancement of farm and farm market engagement in Chemung County Internship Location: CCE Chemung County Faculty: Todd Schmit, Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Student: Alyssa Rhorda Project Summary CCE Chemung is involved in area farm market managing, promotion and by providing EBT support. Over the past years the markets have seen a decrease in overall participation on both sides of the table. Staff, with the assistance of this intern, will be working to assess the health of the farm market system by developing methods for meaningful evaluation and platforms for participant feedback. CCE would like to reach out to market managers, agriculture businesses and organizations to create collaborative effort in agriculture marketing in Chemung County. Through this effort, CCE hopes to determine the barriers preventing farmer engagement, strengthen networks and develop best practices in reaching consumers. 4-H in Chemung County has seen the same stagnant participation in buyers at the 4-H Livestock Sale. 4-H is interested in developing auction best practices, to improve education for potential buyers and increase marketing for overall sale improvement. Through the work done in this internship CCE Chemung hopes to asses the overall health of farm market and agriculture purchasing opportunities in Chemung County and develop best practices that bring local community buyers to agriculture purchasing opportunities. Growth, health and efficiency of early-weaned lambs fed in the barn compared with lambs grown with their dams on pasture Internship Location: CCE Lawrence County, Extension Learning Farm - 2043B State Highway 68, Canton, NY 13617 Faculty: Michael L. Thonney, Department of Animal Science Student: Lindsey McKernan Project Summary The ewes in the Extension Learning Farm flock lamb at the end of April/early May and then are put on pasture with their lambs. Normally the lambs are left with the ewes until they are 100 days old, but infection with internal parasites often slows growth or causes severe anemia unless the lambs are dewormed frequently. This experiment will compare profitability of weaning half the lambs by about 60 days of age, dewormed based on their degree of infection with Haemonchus contortus by FAMACHA scoring, and self-feeding them in the barn compared with the other half left on their mothers on pasture. Growth rates, health, lamb losses, labor and feed contributing to cost of gain, market price, and overhead cost of keeping the lambs on pasture longer will be compared to provide recommendations to lamb producers. Linking farm management practices, whole farm phosphorus balances and soil phosphorus trends Internship Location: CCE Delaware County, Watershed Agricultural Program Office Faculty: Karl Czymmek, Senior Extension Associate, PRODAIRY Program, Department of Animal Science Student: Mikala Anderson Mikala's Journal Project Summary The New York City Watershed Agricultural Program works closely with over 200 farms on implementing best management practices. The CCE staff coordinates efforts in nutrient management, addressing both animal feeding, the source of most nutrients managed in the watershed, and management of manure and fertilizers. Over the course of time the program has amassed a large volume of soil test phosphorus data, as well as information on manure application to fields and animal feed rations. The CCE Delaware Team has been collaborating with the Nutrient Management Spear Program at Cornell for several years collecting whole farm Nutrient Mass Balance (NMB) data. This project involves collecting additional NMBs for farms in the watershed, and evaluating if trends in soil test phosphorus results and field manure management records, align with NMB data. This analysis will support the advancement in on-farm management decision tools like the New York Phosphorus Index used for nutrient management planning in the state Management of ticks in the northeast: Control product ARENA trials Internship Location: Suffolk County Faculty: Laura Harrington, Department of Entomology Student: Elyssa Pergola Elyssa's Journal Project Summary The Suffolk County Department of Public Works (SC DPW) Division of Vector Control is in the third year of field efficacy trials of tick control products and development of their tick surveillance program. The surveillance program is intended to inform the County’s and others’ responses to growing tick populations, incidence of tick-borne disease, and the expanding presence of the invasive Asian longhorned tick. In addition to efficacy assessments of specific tick control products, field trials will provide additional data following a standardized protocol to more accurately determine control and best tick management strategies based upon objective comparisons among products, application rates and other variables such as timing and environmental conditions. Around the Northeast, most effort has focused on deer (blacklegged) tick; work on Long Island also includes studies on lone star ticks, which are now abundant in eastern Suffolk County. As the range of this species has now expanded to western Long Island, parts of CT, RI and MA, this work is expected to be of particular interest as human encounters in other areas increase. In CCE of Suffolk County staff are cooperating with the Suffolk County Dept. of Public Works (SC DPW) Tick Entomologist on tick-related work where there is very strong interest from residents and commercial landscape care professionals. Optimizing vegetable production in New York's breadbasket Internship Location: Albion, Orleans County Faculty: Thomas Björkman Student: Taran Bauer Taran's Journal Project Summary The project has two goals. The first is to better understand new broccoli hybrids that are better adapted to the New York climate. This project will evaluate how they perform in commercial production relative to the current best, as part of a multistate Eastern Broccoli Project. The second component involves field trials optimizing onion production, particularly on highly fertile muck soils in the face of weed, insect and disease pressure. Precision agriculture educational curriculum development for field crops Internship Location: Ithaca, NY Faculty: Jeff Perry, Global Development Student: Stephen Robertshaw Stephen's Journal Project Summary In February of 2018, the staff of the Cornell Nutrient Management Spear Program in collaboration with counterparts at the University of Missouri and the Iowa Soybean Association developed a protocol for yield monitor data cleaning. The protocol was needed as raw yield monitor data contain errors related to the technology and its use in the field, and without data cleaning, reported yields can be off by 1-2 tons/acre and 5-10 bu/acre. When data cannot be trusted, farmers are unlikely to base management decisions on such data, so implementation of a data cleaning protocol is essential. Training sessions with professionals this past year have illustrated the need for curriculum development for teaching of the protocol. In addition, we have been approached by a high school agriculture teacher for a curriculum that would allow their students to learn about yield data collection and cleaning. Thus, the proposed CCE internship project is to develop a high school and extension curriculum for corn yield data collection and processing, as well as the generation of farm-specific yield summaries. The 2019 internship allows the student to learn about field-crop based precision agriculture in general, understand yield monitoring equipment, data collection, and data cleaning, and learn about and implement educational approaches that facilitate learning for students and certified crop advisors. In addition to working on the project, the student will also get exposed to all other aspects of precision agriculture research in our team including data collection with active crop sensors, unmanned aerial systems (UAS or drones), satellite imagery, and field-based soil and plant sampling and analyses, and get greater insights in teaching an agricultural curriculum at a high school through collaboration with two high schools, one in western and one in central NY. The internship, based in Ithaca, will include travel to meet with field crop educators and certified crop advisors statewide with more frequent travel to western and central NY for work with CCE and local high school agriculture teachers. Roadside ditch mapping projects: Building a 4-H model for field data collection and civic engagement Internship Location: Primary worksite: CCE Broome, Binghamton, NY Field work will take place in Broome County towns and neighboring counties Faculty: Susan B. Hoskins, Soil and Crop Sciences Students: Alex Ding and Robert Sanchez Alex's Journal Robert's Journal Project Summary The 4-H Geospatial Science and Technology Program trains educators and youth leaders to use tools of mapmaking: GPS collected data, Geographic Information System software and remotely sensed aerial and satellite images. Using these skills, 4-H educators guide youth in undertaking community mapping projects. One of the focus areas of the Program is Roadside Ditch Mapping for watershed management. The 4-H Geospatial team in Section of Soil and Crop Sciences is partnering with Natural Resources and Biological and Environmental Engineering Departments to develop a 4-H curriculum consisting of activities that will culminate in local roadside ditch maps. Research indicates that rural towns in New York lack access to roadside ditch condition data; information that is essential for making stewardship decisions. Through roadside ditch mapping projects, youth learn about watershed science and management, demonstrate the value of citizen science generated data to local decision makers, and become familiar with their local government officials and highway services. Schuyler CCE Garden-Based Learning (Horticulture and Local Foods Community Education) Internship Location: CCE Schuyler office at 323 Owego St; Montour Falls, NY Faculty: John Losey, Department of Entomology Student: Ben DeMoras Ben's Journal Project Summary Beneficial insects including predators that keep pests in check and pollinators that help plants make fruits and seeds are essential for healthy, productive gardens. The broad objectives of this project will be to work with a summer intern to develop and disseminate a diverse set of tools for gardeners, that will help them effectively release, and/or attract and sustain beneficial insects, especially one key group of predators, ladybugs. A particular focus will be nine-spotted ladybug, our New York state insect that is listed as a “species of greatest conservation concern” by the NYDEC. In addition to release of ladybugs, best practices for attracting and sustaining ladybugs through provision of preferred plant species, and the utilization of “ladybug food” and “ladybug houses” will be evaluated. This project will build on the success of a summer internship program from 2017 and complement efforts of an ongoing Smith-Lever project. This project will address the growing Interest in gardening throughout New York working through CCE to explore the most innovative avenues through which to educate and inspire citizens. Demonstration Gardens have proven to be successful arenas for a number of types of learning opportunities. Schuyler CCE has identified the need for continuing a strengthened approach to a local demonstration garden as a way to help hundreds of local residents learn more about horticulture, and area educators learn from our success. The summer intern will, educate adult and youth gardeners on how to release and attract more ladybugs and other beneficial insects to their gardens through garden events, workshops, garden tours, cultivate communication skills among our Master Gardeners to facilitate youth engagement in ladybug garden projects plant, maintain, and assess a ladybug habitat at the CCE Schuyler Teaching Garden. To support these activities, the intern will write articles on the LLP and beneficial in the landscape for sending to media outlets and produce educational flyers and handouts developed for the teaching garden and beyond. Finally, the intern will share the results of the approach through diverse documentation which will include a web-based success story, to be distributed through CCE News and the Cornell Garden-Based Learning Blog; and potentially host a regional workshop to share with other CCE educators. More information on the Schuyler CCE Teaching Garden Succession Planning for Dairy Farms: Managing Human, Financial and Legal Risks Internship Location: Broome, Chemung, Cortland, Onondaga, Tioga and Tompkins Counties Faculty: Jennifer Ifft, Department of Applied Economics and Management Student: Carolyn Wright Carolyn's Journal Program Summary When farm operators fail to plan for the transfer of business assets and management to the next generation, it exposes their business to human, financial and legal risks that can threaten farm viability. However, less than one third of U.S. farms have a succession plan in place (Harris and Mishra, 2016). Despite survey data and anecdotal evidence documenting a need for succession planning, our South Central NY Dairy and Field Crops Team was not able to generate enough farmer demand to run a Succession Planning Workshop in 2019. This project will identify educational priorities and strategies to equip farmers with knowledge and skills to navigate the succession planning process. The CALS Summer Intern will play a lead role in gathering information from dairy farmers and evaluating producer demand for specific educational content and delivery strategies, including online learning. Short-term project outcomes will include a written report and a presentation summarizing key findings and recommendations. Impacts of this project will continue beyond the scope of the internship, as CCE staff will draw on the needs assessment to develop an Extension Risk Management Education grant proposal and to inform future program development. The Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program (FMNP) with New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets (NYSDAM) Internship Location: Albany, NY Student: Oluwafunke Akinkouolie Oluwafunke's Journal Program Summary The project will assist the Farmers Market Nutrition Program for the 2020 season. The Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program (FMNP) is a federal nutrition program administered by the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets (NYSDAM) with the goals to 1) increase access to select New York State (“local”) produce items by eligible seniors and participants of the Women Infants and Children supplemental nutrition program (WIC) and 2) expand awareness and use of farmers’ markets. As there are different target populations of FMNP, there are therefore two funding streams. The FMNP is comprised of the Senior FMNP (SFMNP) and WIC FMNP. The intended outcome for the student is to work with the team to ensure a successful benefits program season for the most extensive Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program in the country. Wyoming County Farmland Protection Plan – Characterizing Agriculture in Wyoming County Internship Location: Cornell Cooperative Extension of Wyoming County Faculty: Jennifer Ifft, Department of Applied Economics and Management Student: Emily Boldt Emily's Journal Project Summary Wyoming County New York is updating their Agriculture and Farmland Protection Plan, originally created in 2005. The plan is used by the County’s Agriculture and Farmland Protection Board and the Board of Supervisors as they consider policy to support agriculture’s contribution to the local economy and landscape. As part of that process, data will be gathered from farmers, agricultural landowners, and support businesses to identify the threats to and opportunities for a vibrant agriculture in the community. This data will be summarized along with historical information about agriculture’s contribution to Wyoming County. Focus groups will be conducted with agricultural stakeholders to review the data gathered and identify actions to stabilize and strengthen agricultural businesses in the county. Lastly, the Farmland Protection Steering Committee will identify priority actions to support farmland protection and the agricultural community in Wyoming County. CHE Student Internships The following projects were carried out in the summer of 2020 by CHE students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. Development of a culturally tailored, technology-enhanced nutrition education intervention for Latina mothers with young children Internship Location: New York City (NYC), Cornell University Cooperative Extension-NYC Faculty: Tashara M. Leak, PhD, RD, Division of Nutritional Sciences Student: Vidushi Tripathi Vidushi's Journal Program Summary Culturally tailored nutrition interventions can significantly improve health outcomes but have largely focused on Mexican American populations, leaving other Latino groups, prevalent in urban areas like New York City (NYC), understudied. Existing nutrition education curricula (e.g., Eating Smart * Being Active; Health Children, Healthy Families; or others frequently used by Cornell Cooperative Extension nutrition educators) could be translated and modified to meet the cultural needs of NYC Latinos. Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), such as smartphone applications, could provide additional informational and social support; they are accepted and effective in delivering nutrition education to diverse audiences and their use continues to increase among Latinos. Formative work determining factors that impact diet quality and weight status among Latina mothers of young children in NYC is critical to inform the development of a culturally tailored, ICT enhanced intervention. To achieve this, qualitative interviews and surveys will be conducted with Latina women (18-49 years old) who have young children (0-3 years old) and community members who engage with this group (e.g., nutrition educators, clinicians, social workers). For example, mothers will be asked about what types of ICTs they would be open to use and features of the application that would encourage their engagement. The results of the interviews will be corroborated through surveys conducted with the same aforementioned individuals, which will determine the most prevalent nutrition-related issues and needs of this group. The qualitative interviews and surveys will be executed June 1 through July 31, 2020. Results will inform the development of a culturally tailored nutrition education intervention, enhanced with ICTs that aims to improve diet quality and weight status of Latina mothers and their young children in NYC. Choose Health Action Teens (CHAT): Refining the Model of Community Programs as Partners, not Just Recipients Internship Location: CUCE-NYC Office Faculty: Wendy Wolfe, Division of Nutritional Sciences Student: Dylan Ratnarajah Dylan's Journal Program Summary The Family & Youth Development and Nutrition & Health program areas of Cornell University Cooperative Extension in NYC (CUCE-NYC), in collaboration with Dr. Wendy Wolfe at Cornell University, would like to build upon the dynamic Choose Health Action Teen (CHAT) initiative that was implemented in NYC in the summers of 2018 and 2019, with CHE Summer Interns playing a key role. In 2018, interns helped train 6 teens from throughout the city to teach Cornell’s Choose Health: Food, Fun and Fitness (CHFFF) curriculum to 150 children at 7 different sites, most not in the teens’ own communities. Developing a Biometric Testing Platform to Enhance Design Effectiveness in Workplace Internship Location: New York City Faculty: Saleh Kalantari, Department of Design and Environmental Analysis Student: Joanna Moon Joanna's Journal Program Summary Workspaces have been associated with significant negative health impacts, primarily mediated by increased levels of stress, physical inactivity, mood disruption, and poor diet. In addition to the unnecessary human suffering resulting from these impacts, the financial costs are staggering, both in terms of healthcare expenses, and a decrease in job satisfaction and productivity. There is some evidence that improved office designs can alleviate these effects, promoting greater worker health, satisfaction, and productivity. However, as is the case with nearly all architectural design research, the evidence for these findings rests primarily on small-scale studies using methods of self-reporting through surveys and interviews. Obtaining more rigorous, objective information about the human impacts of specific office-design variables (i.e., comparative biometric data about stress levels and mental focus in different office designs) can therefore make a strong contribution to improving human health and economic outcomes, and alter the future of work for design professionals and their customers. Our mobile wearable technology will streamline the process of obtaining more rigorous human-response data, and will thus support stronger scientific approaches in the field of design evaluation. Our testing platform incorporates noninvasive scalp electroencephalography (EEG), head motion, electrocardiography (ECG), and measurements of galvanic skin response (GSR), blood pressure, and body temperature, along with integrated video recording of participant behaviors. We will conduct two studies to investigate human responses to common design variables such as different workstation layout conditions (Study A) and different lighting and window view conditions (Study B). Does play count as learning? Exploring parental beliefs about the role of play in young children's learning Internship Location: Cornell University Cooperative Extension New York City (CUCE) Faculty: Marianella Casasola, Dept. of Human Development Student: Radiah Khandokar Radiah's Journal Program Summary Our project combines a research study and a parent education training. Our research team has been studying parental beliefs about young children's learning and the role of play in this learning. The study is designed to document how parental beliefs about learning during play may contribute to cognitive outcomes and later academic achievement. In particular, we explore if parental beliefs shape their choice of play materials and the educational value parents place on these toys. We study if these beliefs vary with parent education and socio-economic status (SES). As an intended outcome, our team is working with CUCE-NYC on disseminating the research findings to develop an 8-week parent education curriculum about the role of play in early childhood learning. The curriculum is designed for parents and caregivers of children 2-5 years old. Evaluating Efforts to Cultivate Resilience in Orange County Internship Location: Orange County/Orange County Cooperative Extension Faculty: Laura Tach, Department of Policy Analysis and Management Student: Esther Akapo Esther's Journal Project Summary A substantial body of literature documents strong correlations between Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) and negative outcomes across the life course. Research also points toward several strategies for cultivating resilience as a means of mitigating some of these negative effects. The Orange County Resilience Working Group, led by Cornell Cooperative Extension Orange County, is a team of diverse stakeholders working throughout Orange County to raise awareness about ACEs and create more trauma-sensitive institutions and services that foster resilience in their community. The goal of our summer project is to help Orange County evaluate the success of these efforts. More specifically, the CHE-CCE intern would help stakeholders evaluate how effective outreach and education efforts are at increasing community awareness about ACEs and whether specific trauma-sensitive reforms in education, health, and social service sectors generate positive outcomes for community members. OMG or GMO – To Vax or Not to Vax: A Fuzzy Trace Theory Approach to Risk Perception Internship Location: The interns will be in residence in Ithaca and will coordinate with CCE of Tompkins County to develop local program delivery sites. Faculty: Valerie Reyna, Human Development Professor and Department Extension Leader Students: Theodora Kouloglou and Courtney Landis Courtney's Journal Project Summary Cooperative Extension educates the public more about food safety than any other organization and their educators work to improve public awareness of quality, safe, and affordable agricultural products. However, efforts to expand awareness, acceptance and adoption of foods grown and/or processed with modern food safety technology, often face consumer apprehension and resistance. Our research aims to show how differences in information representation can alter perception, understanding, and acceptance of modern foods grown and/or treated by modern food safety technologies, including pasteurized and unpasteurized dairy and genetically engineered (GMO) foods. Understanding factors that influence decision-making processes in assessing potential risks for a given food will result in more effective economic decision-making for food purchases, increased skills and knowledge for healthy, accessible, and affordable food choices that assure greater food security. We have been studying how people perceive vaccination risk and we want to compare these perceptions to risk perceptions of GMO foods. The intern will help us develop a survey, recruit community groups and give them a survey measuring memory for presented information and other knowledge and attitude tests, plus fuzzy trace theory concepts. Also, the intern will work with our CCE partner to identify community engagement strategies for our outreach goals. The Cornell Family Reconciliation Project Internship Location: Jefferson, CUCE-NYC, Orange, and Tompkins Faculty: Karl Pillemer, Department of Human Development Student: Rohit Agarwal Rohit's Journal Program Summary The intern will work with the Cornell Family Reconciliation Project. This outreach program is developing and testing ways to help families overcome estrangement. We will work with the Cooperative Extension system to conduct applied research and develop interventions around family estrangement, building around other CE program experience around stressful family relationships. The project will create evidence-based programs for overcoming estrangement, which in turn is likely to reduce the suffering of affected relatives and contribute to building stronger families in NYS and nationwide. OEI Summer Projects The following projects, offered though by OEI, were carried out during the summer of 2020 by Cornell students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. Assessing the understanding and educating beachgoers on Long Island about rip currents Internship Location: New York Sea Grant; Stony Brook University, Suffolk County Student: Pierson Ohr Pierson's Journal Project Summary Rip currents are considered to be the deadliest hazard to users at ocean beaches. Although many beachgoers have heard the term rip current, not many understand the physical processes occurring and how to escape the grip and return safely to shore. The goal of this project would be to gain an understanding of beachgoer’s knowledge of rip currents on New York's ocean beaches, educate stakeholders about the dangers, and provide safety information. This project will utilize survey materials, educational materials, and virtual reality simulations. Certifying Roosevelt Island (NYC) as a Climate Smart Community Internship Location: CUCE-NYC Office Student: Camilla Bacolod Camilla's Journal Project Summary This undergraduate summer internship will focus on completing and submitting Roosevelt Island’s application to be certified as a NYS Climate Smart Community. The student will work in close collaboration with a community engagement committee brought together in response to a OEI planning grant submitted by CUCE-NYC and Cornell Tech that includes Cornell Tech students, leaders of community organizations committed to sustainability, staff from the Roosevelt Island Operating Corporation (RIOC), and other partners. Community Energy Engagement Program Internship Location: CCE Dutchess County Student: Tien Vo Tien's Journal Project Summary New York State’s targets for emissions reductions are ambitious and fast-approaching. Passed in 2019, the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act (CLCPA) mandates 100% economy-wide net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. Meeting these targets will require a rapid scaling-up and increase in productivity of existing energy efficiency and clean energy programs in each sector. Thus the CLCPA also mandates a 35% minimum allocation of investments from clean energy and energy efficiency funds directed towards disadvantaged communities. To service the full scope of eligible populations, a variety of targeted outreach and marketing strategies are needed to grow awareness and adoption of available programs. In this context, the Mid-Hudson Community Energy Engagement Program (CEEP) is looking to engage one or more interns to research social determinants to participation in energy efficiency and clean energy programs, test marketing/outreach strategies for program uptake, and make recommendations that the Mid-Hudson CEEP program can implement and disseminate. Cultural Humility in Parenting Education Internship Location: CCE Tompkins County Faculty: Laura Tach, Department of Policy Analysis and Management Student: Matthew Sheen Matthew's Journal Project Summary Parenting education programs are primarily developed from a dominant culture lens, which disregards unique needs of racially/ethnically diverse families. This may leave parenting programs inaccessible to families of color, the most rapidly growing population in the U.S. The goals of this project include the following: - Analyze research-based parenting education programs, assessing for cultural humility, unconscious bias, and inclusivity for diverse populations, particularly people of color. - Develop briefs to help CCE educators across New York (and beyond) increase their ability to critically assess parenting education programs through a lens of cultural humility. DeAngelis Master Plan Internship Location: CCE Ontario Student: Andrew Nkubito Andrew's Journal Project Summary CCE Ontario owns and operates 4-H Camp Bristol Hills, which has 123 acres. 80 of these acres were obtained through a gift from a neighbor that are primarily undeveloped. The property currently contains a one acre leach field, two barns, and an archery range. We are interested in developing a master plan on how best to use the property to enhance the educational programs offered by Cornell Cooperative Extension of Ontario County. Nutrition: Sustainability, Food Security, and Public Health Internship Location: Cornell Cooperative Extension of Warren County Faculty: Heather Kolakowski, Hotel Administration Student: Emily Lasher Emily's Journal Project Summary The nutrition sustainability program in Warren County is a hands-on, kinesthetic learning opportunity that combines evidence-based research with practical application. The county in which our office resides is primarily rural, with a high percentage of low-income residents. As the rural landscape lends well to providing food, if an individual has the knowledge of how to do so, our program focuses on the farm and field to table model. We instruct community members in several vegetable gardening techniques, including planning, planting, weeding, and harvesting, as well as what to do with that produce once it is harvested. Other associative programs include food preservation and cooking classes, with an emphasis on hands-on techniques that can empower people to safely store and consume their produce. Another facet of this is the incorporation of wild game and fish into an individual’s diet, so we offer classes that help to bring people into the outdoors, and then provide the information as to what they should do once they acquire wild game or fish. As education is useless unless the learner is engaged enough to implement what they have learned, these programs also include many fun, hands-on, interactive games. Renewable Energy Use and Decarbonization Opportunities on Roosevelt Island, NYC Internship Location: CUCE-NYC Office Student: Yosief Kidane and Stefan Engquist Stefan's Journal Project Summary The summer intern will work with stakeholders on Roosevelt Island, NYC, to explore and address one of the key questions surfaced by the “Engaged Roosevelt Island” working group: What is the potential capacity to expand Roosevelt Island’s use of renewable energy (solar, wind, geothermal and tidal)? The student will work in close collaboration with the community engagement committee (“Engaged Roosevelt Island” working group) brought together in response to a OEI planning grant submitted by CUCE-NYC and Cornell Tech that includes Cornell Tech students, leaders of community organizations committed to sustainability, staff from the Roosevelt Island Operating Corporation (RIOC), and other partners. Rural Storytelling Project Internship Location: CCE Ulster County, CCE Columbia-Greene, CCE Dutchess County Students: Madison Albano, Wendy Lau, and Seth Bollinger Madison's Journal Wendy's Journal Seth's Journal Project Summary Within Ulster County, the rural-urban divide is deeply felt. The ecological, historical, agricultural and cultural history and diversity of Ulster and surrounding counties offers a fascinating window in to this divide. Our region is experiencing another uptick in interest, including the Catskills being named as the #2 destination to visit in the world by Lonely Planet in 2019. With this increased interest comes deepening divisions and new possibilities. The Rural Humanities project can help us to make sure multi-faceted stories are told about the latest chapter in our region’s history, together with all its antecedents. Ulster County 4-H and surrounding counties are very motivated to create new partnerships within Cornell that tell the untold stories of our region and communicate commonalities that bridge this divide. 2019 CALS Student Internships The following projects were carried out in the summer of 2019 by CALS students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. 4-H Curriculum Assessment Internship Location: Monroe County Faculty: Bryan Duff Student: Karina Villarroel Student Journal Building a New York State Equine Facility and Horse Management Evaluation Program Internship Location: CCE Madison County Faculty: Lindsay Goodale Student: Harlee Price Student Journal Communicating about Farming and Local Food Systems through Immersive Video Internship Location: Tompkins County Faculty: Anu Rangarajan, Horticulture-SIPs and Andrea Stevenson Won, Communications Student: Michael Schwartz Student Journal Developing an IPM Approach to Reduce Damage from the Allium Leafminer (Phytomyza gymnostoma Loew) in Commercial Allium Production Internship Location: Hudson Valley, NY (Eastern New York Commercial Horticulture Program) Faculty: Dr. Brian Nault Student: Olivia Matteo Developing UAS Imaging for Crop Management and Phenotyping Internship Location: CCE Genesee County Faculty: Larry Smart Emerging Geospatial Technology Skill-Building in 4-H Summer Programs in Steuben County – Developing a Model Internship Location: CCE Steuben and Steuben County sites Faculty: Susan B. Hoskins Student: Matthew Kwok Student Journal Erie CCE Seed to Supper (S2S) Garden-Based Learning Internship Location: CCE Erie County Faculty: Marcia Eames-Sheavly Student: Clara Stilwell Student Journal Estimating Impact of Road Side Stands on Wayne County Direct Sales of Produce Internship Location: Newark, NY, CCE Wayne County Faculty: Todd M. Schmit Student: Stephanie Neitlich Student Journal Growing Opportunity for Urban Agriculture in New York City Internship Location: CCE Harvest NY, Urban Agriculture Program, Brooklyn, NY Faculty: Dr. Anu Rangarajan Student: Jesse Corona Student Journal Management of soil insects with persistent biocontrol nematodes in organic vegetable production Internship Location: Hudson Valley and ENY Faculty: Elson Shields Management of Ticks in the Northeast Internship Location: Suffolk County Faculty: Laura Harrington Student: Ariana Stephen Student Journal Onboarding Farm Employees: Improving Human Resource Management at the Beginning Internship Location: CCE Ontario County Faculty: Richard Stup Student: Lucas Smith Student Journal Pest Pressures and Cultural Practices on Hemp Farms in Southeastern NY Internship Location: Primarily, Orange County. But may also be in Ulster, Sullivan & Dutchess, Putnam, Westchester & Rockland if hemp production occurs in these counties in ’19. Faculty: Christine Smart Student: Johanna Gertin Student Journal Plant Industry Summer Internship with New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets Internship Location: NYS Ag & Markets, Albany, NY Precision Agriculture in Nutrient Management for Field Crops Internship Location: Project is statewide. Given the intern will work with extension in western and northern NY and travel to farms in central and eastern NY as well, the worksite location is in Ithaca, New York, with frequent trips to especially western and northern NY. Faculty: Quirine Ketterings Student: Ben Lehman Student Journal Telling a story: measuring the impact of commercial urban agriculture in NYC Internship Location: Cornell Cooperative Extension- Harvest NY Urban Agriculture Program (Fort Greene, Brooklyn) 55 Hanson Place Suite 350 Brooklyn, NY 11217 Faculty: Anu Rangarajan Student: Yahnah Woodby Student Journal Vector-Borne Disease Prevention and Education in At-Risk Communities Internship Location: CCE of Schuyler County and CCE Hidden Valley Camp Faculty: Laura Harrington Student: Hannah Rosenthal Student Journal CHE Student Internships The following projects were carried out in the summer of 2019 by CHE students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. Building a Community Legacy Together (BCLT) program Internship Location: Rockland County CCE; Chautauqua County CCE Faculty: Karl Pillemer Student: Micaela Moravek Student Journal Healthy Gist Messaging Through Social Media Internship Location: Tompkins County/CCE Tompkins office Faculty: Valerie Reyna Student: Nnamdi Igwe Student Journal Assessing Dietary Quality of Farmers' Market Shoppers Internship Location: CCE Wayne County Faculty: Rebecca Seguin Student: Ciara Roche Student Journal Community Programs as Partners, not Just Recipients: A New Model for Choose Health Action Teens Internship Location: CUCE-NYC Office Faculty: Wendy Wolfe Student: Emma Dhimitri Student Journal Community Programs as Partners, not Just Recipients: A New Model for Choose Health Action Teens Internship Location: CUCE-NYC Office Faculty: Wendy Wolfe Student: Adjoa Fosuhema-Kordie Student Journal Designing for Digital Assembly with a Construction Team of Mobile Robots Internship Location: Ithaca Faculty: Saleh Kalantari Student: Vidushi Tripathi Student Journal Evaluating and Optimizing Wayfinding in Healthcare Settings through Biometric Data and Virtual Response Testing Internship Location: NYC Faculty: Saleh Kalantari Student: Julia Kan Student Journal Exploring the Benefits of Unstructured and Scaffolded Play Internship Location: NYC Faculty: Marianella Casasola Student: Tatiana Blechman Student Journal Incorporating a 2Gen (Two Generation) Approach to CCE Parent Education Programs Internship Location: CU Campus and CCE County offices Faculty: Kimberly Kopko Student: Jessica Lindenstraus Student Journal School Partnerships to Support Communities Internship Location: Work may be undertaken anywhere, with site visits to selected County offices such as Chenango, Broome, Tioga, Schoharie and Allegany. Faculty: Sharon Tennyson Student: Molly Bergin Student Journal Supporting Families amidst the Opioid Epidemic: Connecting Campus and Extension Efforts across New York Internship Location: Tompkins and Ulster Counties Faculty: Laura Tach Student: Rose Ippolito Student Journal OEI Summer Projects The following projects, offered though by OEI, were carried out during the summer of 2019 by Cornell students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. Breaking Down Language Barriers To Promote Quality Early Childhood Care and Education Internship Location: CCE Oneida County Faculty: Abigail Cohn, Department of Linguistics, The College of Arts & Sciences Student: Lauren Kessler Lauren's Journal CCE Rockland Garden Projects Internship Location: CCE Rockland County Faculty: Valerie Aymer, Department of Landscape and Architecture Student: Tingyue Tan Tingyue's Journal Nutrition Sustainability Program Internship Location: CCE Warren County Faculty: Heather Kolakowski, Operations, Technology and Information Management, The Hotel School Student: Jianxin Huo Jianxin's Journal Poverty Stoplight Internship Location: CCE Chemung County Faculty: Rachel Weil Student: Jack Mahoney Jack's Journal 2018 CALS Student Internships The following projects were carried out in the summer of 2018 by CALS students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. Community Health Equity Internship Location: Cornell University with focus on community resources in Tompkins County and surrounding regions. Faculty: Rebecca Seguin, PhD, Division of Nutritional Sciences Student: Drew Valentine Student Journal Animal Disease Information and Movement Data Tracking Internship Location: New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets, Division of Animal Industry, Albany, NY Building a New York State Equine Facility and Horse Management Evaluation Program Internship Location: CCE Madison Faculty: Lindsay Goodale, DVM CCE Climate Smart Farming Intern: Research and Outreach to Help Rural Farmers (including in the Plain community) Respond to Climate Change in New York State Internship Location: CCE Madison County (Morrisville, NY) Faculty: Allison Chatrchyan Student: Tyler Brewer Student Journal Community Food Systems Development Framework for Change Pilot Internship Location: CCE Chemung County and CCE Tioga County Faculty: Todd Schmit Student: Hailey Pipher Student Journal Community Food Systems Development Framework for Change Pilot Internship Location: CCE Chemung County and CCE Tioga County Faculty: Todd Schmit Student: Anna Birn Student Journal Craft Beverage Industry Establishment Cost Internship Location: CCE Clinton Faculty: Miguel Gomez Student: Tyler Baisi Student Journal Diagnosis, Assessment and Mapping Critical Diseases and Pests of Field Crops in Northern New York Internship Location: TBD Faculty: Dr. Gary Bergstrom Student: Amanda Bond Student Journal Garden-Based Learning Programming for Children, Youth, Families and Adults with CCE Nassau County and the Horticulture Center Demonstration & Community Gardens at East Meadow Farm Internship Location: CCE Nassau County, Horticulture Center Demonstration & Community Gardens at East Meadow Farm Faculty: Lori Brewer Student: Martha Williams Student Journal Hemlock Conservation in the Capital Mohawk PRISM and Warren County Internship Location: CCE Saratoga County/ CapMo PRISM Faculty: Mark Whitmore Student: Lily-Anne Trainor Student Journal High Tunnel Pest Management with Biocontrols Internship Location: Essex County Faculty: John Sanderson Increasing productivity of vegetable production by improving soil nutrition and pest management Internship Location: CCE Nassau Dorthy P. Flint 4-H Camp, Long Island Horticulture Research and Extension Center Faculty: Dr. Anu Rangarajan and Dr. Mark Bridgen Student: Raul Campo-Lizama Student Journal Is Sulfur is a Limiting Nutrient for Soybean Production? Internship Location: Work will be conducted primarily in the 10 county region of the NWNY CCE Team. Faculty: Quirine Ketterings Student: Madeline Kinnear Student Journal Land-And-Sea: Using a Seafood Ambassador to Promote Local Seafood @ LI Taste NY Internship Location: Long Island Welcome Center/Taste of NY Market Place Faculty: Eugene Won Student: Susanna Oskinski Student Journal Local Food Communications Internship Location: Tompkins County Faculty: Anu Rangarajan, Horticulture Section, School of Integrated Plant Science Student: Jane Kim Student Journal Management of Ticks in the Northeast Internship Location: CCE Suffolk, Suffolk County Dept. of Public Works Vector Control Faculty: Laura Harrington Student: Bailey Willett Student Journal Mapping Opioid Resources and Services in Tompkins County Internship Location: Cornell University with focus on community resources in Tompkins County and surrounding regions Faculty: Kimberly Kopko, PhD, Policy Analysis and Management, John Sipple, PhD, Department of Development Sociology Student: Spencer Kendall & Kaitlyn Sbrollini Student Journal Promoting youth entrepreneurship and STEM learning through hydroponics, aquaponics new aquaculture programs in New York City Internship Location: CUCE-NYC Faculty: Michael Timmons Student: Bronte Zhang Student Journal Supporting Controlled Environment Agriculture in New York City Internship Location: New York City Faculty: Anu Rangarajan, Horticulture Section, School of Integrated Plant Science Student: Katherine Rogers Student Journal Student: Christian Kanlian Student Journal Student: Brian Byun Student Journal Student: Mason Leist Student Journal Survey of the insects attacking Industrial Hemp across NYS Internship Location: TBD (NNY, CNY, WNY) Centrally located in Ithaca, Shields Laboratory Faculty: Elson Shields Student: Matt Chartrand Student Journal CHE Student Internships The following projects were carried out in the summer of 2018 by CHE students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. Children's Economic Decision Making Internship Location: CCE Cortland County, CCE Albany County, CCE Jefferson County Faculty: Gary Evans and David Just Student: Lucie Fan Student Journal Choose Health: Food, Fun, and Fitness (CHFFF) and Choose Health Action Teens (CHAT) Health & Fitness Project Internship Location: CUCE-NYC Office Faculty: Wendy Wolfe Student: Rythika Francis Student Journal Concussion and the Developing Brain Neuroscience Outreach Internship Location: Mainly Ithaca, with work in Watkins Glen (4-H Camp Hidden Valley), CCE Schuyler County and CCE Tompkins County Faculty: Valerie Reyna Student: James Kim Student Journal Cornell Cooperative Extension Outreach for Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program (FMNP) Internship Location: CCE Madison County and CCE Wayne County offices Faculty: Rebecca Seguin Student: Erin Kehoe Student Journal Examining the Affordability and Availability of Diverse Produce in New York City Bodegas Internship Location: CUCE-NYC Office Faculty: Tashara Leak Student: Athena Wong Student Journal Managing Changing Parenting Education Needs for Jefferson County Families Internship Location: CCE Jefferson County Faculty: Kimberly Kopko Student: Rosaleen Morgan Student Journal Shaping up: Exploring how spatial language promotes children's spatial thinking Internship Location: New York City, CUCE-NYC Office Faculty: Marianella Casasola Student: Johanna O'Reilly Student Journal 2017 CALS Student Internships The following projects were carried out in the summer of 2017 by CALS students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. 4-H STEM/Library Partnership Best Practices for Engaging Youth Internship Location: CCE Ontario County Faculty: Susan B. Hoskins, Soil and Crops Sciences Student: Emily Boedo Student Journal Biological Control of Insects Pests in Small Fruit, Vegetable and Apple Cropping Systems Using a Native Persistent Nematode Complex Internship Location: Hudson Valley Research Laboratory (Ulster County) with onsite experience in Dutchess, Columbia, Orange Counties. Faculty: Peter J. Jentsch, Entomology Student: Cameron Fuhr Student Journal Breeding Downy Mildew Resistance in Impatiens Internship Location: Riverhead, NYCU's Long Island Horticulture Research & Extension Center Faculty: Dr. Mark Bridgen, SIPS, Horticulture Section Student: Yuqi Chen Student Journal CCE Climate Smart Farming Intern: Extension, Education, and Research to Help Farmers Respond to Climate Change in New York State Internship Location: CICSS Offices, Cornell University Faculty: Allison Chatrchyan Student: Emma Bankier Student Journal Student: Jake Pero Student Journal Connecting Farmers to Business: At the Hub of the Matter Internship Location: CCE Jefferson County Faculty: Miguel Gomez, Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Student: Angela Lee Student Journal Eat Smart NY Internship Location: CCE Broome County Faculty: Tom Hirschl Student: Joshua Sanders and Anne Brenna Student Journal Eat Smart NY Garden-Based Learning Programming for Children, Youth, Families and Adults with CCE Nassau County and the Horticulture Center Demonstration & Community Gardens at East Meadow Farm Internship Location: CCE Nassau County, Horticulture Center Demonstration & Community Gardens at East Meadow Farm Faculty: Lori Brewer Student: Martha Williams Student Journal It’s a mystery! Why are some apple trees declining in Eastern New York? Internship Location: Cornell Hudson Valley Research Laboratory (Highland, NY) Faculty: Dr. Kerik Cox, Plant Pathology Section of Integrated Plant Science Student: Kevin Li Student Journal New York State Seed Testing Laboratory Internship Internship Location: State Office Building Campus, 6 Harriman Campus Road, Albany, NY 12206 Faculty: Kyle Arvin Student: Skylyr Crow Student Journal Precision Agriculture in Nutrient Management for Field Crops Internship Location: Ithaca, New York, with weekly trips to Cayuga County and 3-4 trips to Western New York. Faculty: Quirine Kettterings, Animal Science Student: Brady Rogers Student Journal Schuyler CCE Garden-Based Learning (Horticulture and Local Foods Community Education) Internship Location: CCE Schuyler County Faculty: Dr. John Losey, Entomology Student: Danielle Wolleman Student Journal Survey and Needs Assessment of Controlled Environment Agriculture in New York City Internship Location: CUCE NYC, New York, NY Faculty: Neil Mattson, Horticulture Student: Christian Kanlian Student Journal The Inclusion of Hispanic Immigrant Parents To 4-H Clubs in Rural New York Internship Location: CCE Wayne County, CCE Sullivan County, CCE Orange County Faculty: Pilar Parra, Nutritional Sciences Student: Alex Gordon Student Journal Winery Establishment and Expansion in Northern New York Internship Location: CCE Clinton County Faculty: Miguel Gomez, Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Student: Ryan Graff Student Journal Youth Farmed and Fished Seafood Education Program Internship Location: Suffolk County Stony Brook, NY Faculty: Eugene Won, Animal Science Student: Jack Novak Student Journal CHE Student Internships The following projects were carried out in the summer of 2017 by CHE students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. Cornell Cooperative Extension Outreach for Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program (FMNP) Internship Location: CCE Madison County, CCE Wayne County Faculty: Rebecca Seguin, PhD., Division of Nutritional Sciences Student: Finn McFarland Student Journal Disadvantage and Economic Decision Making in Children Internship Location: CCE Cortland County Faculty: Gary Evans, Department of Design and Environmental Analysis; David Just, Dyson School Student: Piragash Swargaloganathan Student Journal Enhancing Children’s Play and Parent’s Knowledge in Suffolk County Internship Location: CCE Suffolk County Faculty: Marianella Casasola, Department of Human Development Student: Elizabeth Cavic Student Journal Healthy Children, Healthy Families: Parents Making a Difference! (HCHF) Internship Location: Cornell University Cooperative Extension- New York City ( CUCE-NYC) Faculty: Jamie Dollahite, Division of Nutritional Sciences Student: Maya Matunis Student Journal Older Volunteers for the Environment: An Intervention Study Internship Location: Cornell University Cooperative Extension - New York City ( CUCE-NYC) Faculty: Karl Pillemer, Director Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research, Hazel E. Reed Professor in the Department of Human Development, Professor of Gerontology in Medicine at the Weill Cornell Medical College Student: Monica Wassel Student Journal Qualitative Assessment of Summer 4-H Programming Internship Location: CCE Franklin County Faculty: Andrew Turner, BCTR Student: Leah Moore Student Journal Teaching Trauma Sensitive Care: A Training Workshop for the Extended Learning Network Internship Location: CCE Broome County Faculty: Jane Mendle, Human Development Student: Julia Lesnick Student Journal Two-Generation Approaches to Family Well-Being and Child Development Internship Location: CCE Tompkins County Faculty: Laura Tach, Department of Policy Analysis and Management Student: Sharon Glick Student Journal Yates County Historical Costume Collection Stewardship and Evaluation Internship Location: CCE Yates County Faculty: Denise N. Green, Fiber Science & Apparel Design Student: Chukwuka Okoro Student Journal 2016 CALS Student Internships The following projects were carried out in the summer of 2016 by CALS students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. 4-H and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles New York Connections for Curriculum Development Internship Location: CCE Oneida County Faculty: Susan Hoskins, Senior Extension Associate, Soil and Crop Sciences Student: James Jiang Student Journal Beating Beet Diseases Internship Location: CCE Ontario (Primary), Genesee and Livingston Counties Faculty: Sarah Pethybridge, Assistant Professor, Plant Pathology Student: Gavriela Carver Student Journal Bilingual Dairy Education Internship Location: CCE Ontario County (Intern will be required to travel within the Team's 10-county region to visit farms.) Faculty: Thomas Maloney, Senior Extension Associate, Applied Economics and Management Student: Brooke Ryan Biological Control of the Root Weevil Complex Impacting Berry Production in Eastern New York Internship Location: CCE Columbia, Greene, Ulster, Dutchess, Orange and Putnam Counties, but work may also be conducted in CCE Albany, Schenectady, Washington, Rensselaer, Schoharie, Montgomery and Saratoga Counties. Faculty: Elson Shields, Professor, Entomology Student: Anita Minniefield Student Journal Building the Agriculture Intellect of the Finger Lakes: Support for Agricultural Career Development Internship Location: CCE Ontario County Faculty: Christine Smart, Professor, Integrative Plant Science Student: Riley Abrahamson Student Journal CCE Nassau County 4-H Youth Development Internship Location: CCE Nassau County Faculty: Mark Bridgen, Professor Director, Long Island Horticulture Research and Extension Center Student: Samuel Williams Student Journal Children of Immigrant Families and 4-H: The Process for Inclusion and Integration Internship Location: CCE Wayne, Sullivan and Orange Counties Faculty: Pilar Parra, Research Associate/Senior Lecturer, Nutritional Science Student: Tara Hammonds Student Journal Evaluating Availability and Barriers of Farmland to New and Beginning Farmers Internship Location: CCE Cayuga County (with the ability to drive within NYS) Faculty: Jenny Ifft, Assistant Professor, Applied Economics and Management Student: Colin Gates Student Journal Evaluating Cherry Tomato Varieties for Brown Leaf Mold Resistance in High Tunnels Internship Location: CCE Clinton and Essex Counties Faculty: Christine Smart, Professor, Integrative Plant Science Student: Lauren Fessler Student Journal Exploring the Opportunity for Rapid Price Adjustments by Farmers during the Growing Season Internship Location: CCE Ulster, Columbia, Greene, Albany, Rensselaer, Saratoga and Washington Counties Faculty: Anusuya Rangarajan, Senior Extension Associate, Horticulture Student: Lindsey McMahon Student Journal Flood Awareness Outreach Internship Location: CCE Dutchess County Faculty: Todd Walter, Professor, Biological and Environmental Engineering Student: Stephanie Lin Student Journal Food Systems: Developing a Regional Food Hub in Northern New York Internship Location: Cornell Cooperative Extension of Jefferson County Faculty: Lindsey Pashow, Harvest NY Marketing Student: Cassandra Kiechle Student Journal Improving Workplace Communications: Training and Advancement Opportunities for Farmworkers Internship Location: CCE Cortland County South Central New York Dairy & Field Crops Faculty: Mary Jo Dudley, Senior Extension Associate, Development Sociology/ Director, Cornell Farmworker Program Student: Elizabeth Dean Student Journal Precision Agriculture in Nutrient Management for Field Crops Internship Location: Ithaca, New York, with weekly trips to Western New York. Faculty: Quirine Ketterings, Professor, Animal Science Student: Lindsay Chamberlain Student Journal Schuyler CCE garden-Based Learning Internship Location: CCE Schuyler County Faculty: Marcia Eames-Sheavly, Senior Extension Associate/Senior Lecturer, Horticulture Student: Megan Dodge Student Journal Survey and Needs Assessment of Controlled Environment Agriculture in New York City Internship Location: CUCE-NYC Programs, New York City Faculty: Neil Mattson, Associate Professor, Horticulture Urban Agriculture/Nutrition: Providing community education to youth and adults through hands on Master Garden and Nutritional Programming Internship Location: Onondaga County Faculty: Marcia Eames-Sheavly, Senior Extension Associate/Senior Lecturer, Horticulture Student: Denisse Gayosso-Lucano Student Journal Using Estrous Synchronization and Artificial Insemination to Increase the Competitiveness and Profitability of Beef Farms Internship Location: CCE Yates County Northwest New York (NWNY) Dairy, Livestock and Field Crops Team Faculty: Michael Baker, Senior Extension Associate, Animal Science Student: Dennis Atiyeh Student Journal CHE Student Internships The following projects were carried out in the summer of 2016 by CHE students through the CCE Summer Internship Program. Adopting Healthy Habits (AHH) Best Practices: Documenting Efforts and Outcomes Internship Location: CCE Jefferson County Faculty: Jamie Dollahite, Professor, Nutritional Science Student: Maya George Student Journal Assessing Youth Perspectives on the Use of Technology Mediated Sexual Affordance in the Digital Age Internship Location: Cornell University, with onsite visits to CCE Tompkins County, New York City and other sites in New York Faculty: Janis Whitlock, Research Scientist, Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research Student: Hannah Light-Olson Student Journal Children of Immigrant Families and 4-H: Processes of Inclusion and Integration Internship Location: CCE Wayne, Sullivan and Orange Counties Faculty: Jeffery Sobal, Professor, Nutritional Science Student: Alexis Rosenbaum Student Journal Children's Economic Decision Making Internship Location: CCE Cortland County, and possibly, CCE Seneca and Broome Counties. Faculty: Gary Evans, Professor, Design and Environmental Analysis; David Just, Professor, Applied Economics and Management Student: Hailey Brace Student Journal Determining Needs and Benefits of Cornell Cooperative Extension Nutrition and Consumer Science Programming Internship Location: CCE Warren County Faculty: Gary Evans, Professor, Design and Environmental Analysis Student: Deirdre O'Hanlon Student Journal Health and the Brain Neuroscience Outreach Internship Location: CCE Ontario; Camp Bristol Hills Faculty: Valerie Reyna, Professor and Department Extension Leader, Human Development Student: Allison Franz Student Journal Multi-Stage Evaluation and Follow-up of the HEART Clubs' Civic Engagement Projects to Improve Heathy Eating and Physical Activity Opportunities in Rural Communities Internship Location: Cornell University Faculty: Rebecca Seguin, Assistant Professor, Nutritional Science Student: Ashley Silver Student Journal Parent Education Community Assessment Tool and Resource Development Internship Location: CCE Jefferson County Faculty: Kimberly Kopko, Senior Extension Associate, Policy Analysis and Management Student: Sahiba Kahai Student Journal Playing Hard: The Role of Language and Play in Promoting Children's Spatial Skills Internship Location: CUCE New York City Faculty: Marianella Casasola, Associate Professor, Human Development Student: Deborah Seok Student Journal Simple Interactions: A Method for Enhancing Relational Skill and Improving the Quality of Adult-Youth Relationships Internship Location: CCE Ontario County; 4-H Camp Bristol Hills Faculty: Deborah Sellers, Senior Research Associate, Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research Student: Joy Gage Student Journal Innovation, Action, Impact. Local Offices About CCE CCE News and Stories Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Get Connected CCE Directory Contact Us Jobs with CCE Summer Internships Work Teams Follow Us Facebook Youtube Channel Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Footer CCE CCE Privacy Policy CCE Staff Site Equal Opportunity Web Accessibility