Skip to main content Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Cornell University Home College of Agriculture & Life Sciences Home Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Animal Science Main navigation Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Collaborations Outreach & Extension Extension Publications, Resources & Software Youth Extension Events Cornell Nutrition Conference Feed Dealers Seminars Advanced Dairy Nutrition Shortcourse Basic Dairy Nutrition Shortcourse Dale E. Bauman Lecture About Contact Animal Science Diversity & Inclusion Facilities History Kudos & Awards News People Navigation Main mobile navigation Degrees & Programs Degrees & Programs Overview Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Research Overview Collaborations Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview Extension Publications, Resources & Software Youth Extension Events Events Overview Cornell Nutrition Conference Feed Dealers Seminars Advanced Dairy Nutrition Shortcourse Basic Dairy Nutrition Shortcourse Dale E. Bauman Lecture About About Overview Contact Animal Science Diversity & Inclusion Facilities History Kudos & Awards News People Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Animal Science Advancing understanding of animal biology and addressing the animal industries' most pressing problems. Welcome to the Department of Animal Science The Department of Animal Science offers undergraduate and graduate programs on the biology and management of food, laboratory and companion animal species. Our research programs advance our understanding of animal biology and address local and global issues facing animal industries today. Our goals are to discover and develop new techniques and information to benefit animals, agriculture and human health. Our internationally recognized faculty have diverse interests in animal management, breeding, genetics, physiology, nutrition, growth biology and microbiology. About Animal Science Learn our History Explore our Facilities Follow Animal Science on Twitter! See What is Happening on Instagram Major in Animal Science Animal science majors learn from internationally recognized professors in all aspects of domestic animal biology: breeding, genetics, nutrition, physiology, growth, behavior and management. Animal Science Major Learn more about what an animal science major can do for you. Undergraduate Studies International Opportunities Check out the international opportunities available with the animal science major. Learn more about undergraduate opportunities Graduate Studies Approximately 40 graduate students from a variety of disciplines belong to the Department of Animal Science, most of them in the field of animal science. Graduate field of animal science Upcoming Animal Science Events Has taxonomy terms (with depth) Article Type (field_article_type) CALS MagazineReportField NoteFutureCastMultimediaNewsSpotlight Event Type (field_event_type) ClassConferenceExhibitFairFestivalField DayLectureMeetingSeminarWebinarWorkshop Offset Conference 2022 Advanced Dairy Nutrition and Management Shortcourse Presented as a partnership between Cornell University Animal Science and Miner Institute, the Advanced Dairy Nutrition and Management Shortcourse is conducted in even calendar years at Cornell University. This shortcourse is designed primarily... Animal Science Dairy Workshop May 7, 2022 4-H Animal Crackers Quick View Animal Crackers 2022 “All Creatures Great and Small” to take place in-person on the Cornell Campus on Saturday, May 7, 2022. This year’s program will highlight the following species: equine, bovine, goat, and dog. The annual Animal Crackers... New York State 4-H Animal Science Youth and Families Exhibit April 22, 2022 Art of Agriculture Quick View Join Sigma Alpha, professional agricultural sorority, on the Arts Quad to learn more about agriculture! Experience student groups, research labs, and agricultural outreach organizations representing a wide array of opportunities and careers in... Animal Science Dairy Animals Workshop March 26, 2022 Youth Dairy Discovery Workshop Quick View We are excited to offer a hands-on in-person Dairy Discovery this year! Please note that this year’s program will be one day, March 26th, at Cornell University in Morrison Hall. We will be taking a whole-farm approach to the workshops in 2022... New York State 4-H Animal Science PRO-DAIRY Workshop March 22, 2022 Understanding and Mitigating Lameness Quick View Registration This program is available at no cost to participants thanks to the generous support of our industry sponsors. Pre-registration is required. After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing instructions and links... PRO-DAIRY CCE Dairy Load More News Has taxonomy terms (with depth) Article Type (field_article_type) CALS MagazineReportField NoteFutureCastMultimediaNewsSpotlight Event Type (field_event_type) ClassConferenceExhibitFairFestivalField DayLectureMeetingSeminarWebinarWorkshop Spotlight Details Solar grazing project combines renewable energy and agriculture Solar energy developers and farmers need land to operate, and a Cornell research project aims to demonstrate how co-locating solar arrays on farmland can be an environmentally friendly way to benefit both the renewable energy and agriculture industries. Cornell Atkinson Cornell Cooperative Extension Animal Science Field Note May 27, 2022 Quick View Digital agriculture internships spark interdisciplinary insights Benjamin Yeh ’22 is a Statistics major with a minor in Computer Science and Celia Walden ’22 is a Biometry and Statistics major. What do they have in common? Having no prior experience with agriculture, Yeh and Walden spent the last year working with the Cornell Nutrient Management Spear Program (NMSP) where they dove into the rapidly expanding field of digital agriculture. Animal Science Agriculture Digital Agriculture News May 20, 2022 Quick View Celebrating the CALS Class of 2022 With the end of another academic year in sight, we’d like to recognize both the CALS undergraduate and graduate classes of 2022. Cornell AgriTech Office of Undergraduate Biology Animal Science Animal Science Kudos & Awards Brianna Tate was inducted into the Cornell Chapter of the prestigious Edward A. Bouchet Graduate Student Honor Society in recognition of her outstanding work as a scientist as well as a leader in the Cornell and scientific communities. Learn more about Brianna Tate! Image Caption Button Brianna Tate feeds a calf as part of her research trials. Alina Galyon ’22 awarded NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Quick View Close quick view Alina Galyon ’22 awarded NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Animal Science undergraduate, Alina Galyon '22, was recently awarded a fellowship through the National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP). Subhashree Srinivasagan awarded Cornell Atkinson Postdoctoral Fellowship Quick View Close quick view Subhashree Srinivasagan awarded Cornell Atkinson Postdoctoral Fellowship Subhashree Navaneetha Srinivasagan was recently awarded one of four Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability Postdoctoral Fellowships. Giulianna Kukor ’23 to serve as Agriculture Future of America Ambassador Quick View Close quick view Giulianna Kukor ’23 to serve as Agriculture Future of America Ambassador Giulianna Kukor ’23 to serve as Agriculture Future of America Ambassador Contact us for more information Thank you for your interest in Animal Science at Cornell University's College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Reach out through the information below, or find a more direct point of contact for your inquiries. 149 Morrison Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-4801 Phone: (607) 255-2862 Fax: (607) 255-9829 E-mail: anscinfo [at] cornell.edu Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information