Skip to main content Agricultural Institute Menu Close Home About Spend a Day at State Faculty and Staff News Contact Us Students Admissions Student Interest Form Majors Certificates For Parents Student Life Student Opportunities Internships For Employers View Map Careers For Employers Alumni and Friends Give Now Home Home About About Spend a Day at State Faculty and Staff News Contact Us Students Students Admissions Student Interest Form Majors Certificates For Parents Student Life Student Opportunities Internships Internships For Employers View Map Careers Careers For Employers For Employers Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Give Now Agricultural Institute Two years. One degree. Endless possibilities. Hit the Ground Running In just two years, the Agricultural Institute will prepare you for a meaningful career in agriculture. Our faculty are among the best in the country. Our facilities are unparalleled. And our hands-on curriculum keeps students up to date with rapidly changing technology and industry demands. Above all, we are dedicated to one thing: your success. Spend-A-Day with AGI Are you interested in learning more about the Agricultural Institute? Register to attend one of our Spend-A-Day-At-State visits this Spring! Introducing a New Generation to Agriculture AGI recently brought on alumna Kaylee Gabriel whose role focuses on enhancing recruitment efforts and boosting student enrollment at the institute. Read the story aylee Gabriel worked in the Lake Wheeler Road Field Laboratory in the swine education unit, managing the nursery and finishing barns. latest news More News How TJ Jones Transformed from Naval Cook to Future Turfgrass Manager Set to graduate in December 2022, TJ Jones’s journey reveals a hopeful message that following your inner compass can lead to a greater sense of purpose and fulfillment. AGI Student Max Jeffers Forges His Pathway at CALS Max Jeffers is completing the AGI program and graduating with an associate’s degree in general agriculture in May 2022. We had the chance to chat with Jeffers about his journey into the agricultural field. Scientists Find Previously Unknown Jumping Behavior in Insects There is evidence that this jumping behavior is occurring in a range of species – we just haven’t noticed it before. Why Choose AGI Play Video Connect with us Get the AGI Newsletter Sign up to receive news every fall and spring about AGI alumni and important policy and program updates. Subscribe Now Agricultural Institute Home 100 Patterson Hall Campus Box 7642 Raleigh, NC 27695-7642 NC State is an equal opportunity institution. Campus Map About Agricultural Institute Majors and Curriculum Admissions Parents Veterans Contact Agricultural Institute Alumni and Friends Faculty and Staff Resources Accessibility Connect With Us Facebook Twitter YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.