Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Agricultural and Resource Economics Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About News Subscribe to ARE Newsletter Events Alumni and Giving Contact Us Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificate Programs Agricultural Entrepreneurship Program Job Shadowing Student Resources Study Abroad Careers People Leadership Faculty Faculty by Expertise Adjunct and Associated Faculty Emeriti Faculty Staff Extension and Research Professionals Graduate Students Research Graduate Programs Faculty by Expertise Seminars and Workshops Extension Animal Agriculture Business Planning and Operations Crops, Marketing and Logistics Enterprise Budgets Policy and Regulation Regional Economies and Outlook Publications NC State Economist ARE Resource Subscriptions CEnREP Employee Portal Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About Students People Research Extension CEnREP Employee Portal Full Site Navigation About News Subscribe to ARE Newsletter Events Alumni and Giving Contact Us Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificate Programs Agricultural Entrepreneurship Program Job Shadowing Student Resources Study Abroad Careers People Leadership Faculty Faculty by Expertise Adjunct and Associated Faculty Emeriti Faculty Staff Extension and Research Professionals Graduate Students Research Graduate Programs Faculty by Expertise Seminars and Workshops Extension Animal Agriculture Business Planning and Operations Crops, Marketing and Logistics Enterprise Budgets Policy and Regulation Regional Economies and Outlook Publications NC State Economist ARE Resource Subscriptions Growing Ag Leaders and Operations Farm operations grow with solid economic, business, law and policy knowledge. We'll teach you how to run a thriving operation. Ready for Tomorrow 21st-century agriculture demands a broad knowledge base. We equip students with the business savvy required to become successful professionals. Management, marketing and finance aren’t abstract concepts. Our faculty and students apply them to real-world challenges, so our graduates can take on managerial roles in ag-related businesses – or start one of their own. Explore Agricultural and Resource Economics Our department is growing. We are recruiting for several new positions created to address relevant issues in the field of agricultural and recource economics, extension and teaching. Join Our Team Watch Student Researcher: Feifei Liang Our graduate program helps students become problem solvers. Learn how Feifei Liang studies consumer health data to measure the impact of varying nutrition labels on consumer health and financial decisions. Department News More News May 20, 2022 You Decide: How Will the Hospitality Industry Change? The hospitality industry in North Carolina has had to adapt in recent years. How has it changed, and what could it look like in the future? Read More May 6, 2022 You Decide: Do We Live in the Most Uncertain of Times? The year 2022 has already contained numerous events that directly impacted our society. What are they and what impacts are they having? Read More Apr 22, 2022 You Decide: How Well Has North Carolina Dealt With COVID-19? The National Bureau of Economic Research recently published a study on how individual states have dealt with the challenges of the pandemic. How did North Carolina measure up to the others? Read More Connect With Us Connect On Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube ARE Newsletter Keep up with the lastest news from the Department of Agricultural and Resource Economics by subscribing to our monthly newsletter. Subscribe Agricultural and Resource Economics Nelson Hall Campus Box 8109 2801 Founders Drive Raleigh, NC 27695 NC State is an equal opportunity institution. Contact Us News Subscribe to ARE News Subscribe to NC State Economist Department Directory ARE Internal Resources Emergency Copyright Accessibility Diversity Login Sitemap Families First Coronavirus Response Act Campus Map Have feedback on our site? Need technical support? Email our technicians © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy