Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Image Caption Button Hungry customers outside the West Hertel Academy place their orders at the new Buffalo Public Schools’ food truck, developed with input from Cornell Cooperative Extension. Photo by R.J. Andersen Multimedia News CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling October 15, 2020 | By R.J. Anderson Share Cornell Cooperative Extension Food Health + Nutrition Rolling up to the parking lot of West Hertel Academy in Buffalo on Oct. 7, the Buffalo Public Schools’ (BPS) brand new food truck brought eye-popping style and hot, wholesome local food to students and families in the West Buffalo inner city neighborhood. With a splashy paint scheme designed by a local artist, the “Farm to School to You” food truck – developed with input from Cornell Cooperative Extension (CCE) Cornell Cooperative Extension Putting knowledge to work in pursuit of economic vitality, ecological sustainability and social well-being across New York state. About CCE – will visit sites throughout the city to bring free meals to families in need, regardless of whether they have children enrolled in the district. BPS is currently offering online only instruction due to COVID-19 pandemic. “We want to provide an opportunity for families to help meet their budget needs,” said Bridget O’Brien-Wood, BPS food service director. “Seventy-six percent of our students qualify for a free meal, so we know families are facing big challenges right now. We are determined to get this farm-to-school food truck out on the road to offer our families a hot, nutritious lunch.” When BPS students return to in-person instruction, the food truck will rotate through the district’s 16 high schools and its various child nutrition programs, including afterschool and summer food service programs. BPS food service workers will serve hot lunches made with locally grown ingredients, and teachers and staff will provide educational opportunities linked to the district’s farm-to-school programming. Buffalo Public Schools Food service worker Monique Martin served up free, hot, wholesome lunches featuring local ingredients out of the district’s new “Farm to School to You” food truck on Oct. 7 at West Hertel Academy in Buffalo. Photo by R.J. Anderson. One of those opportunities: experiential learning for culinary arts students in Buffalo. They’ll develop farm-to-table menus, then serve locally sourced items from the food truck at Buffalo-area child and adult care program sites. “Food trucks have become an integral part of the nation’s culinary fabric, and we are excited to be able to offer our students this amazing opportunity,” said Katie Schuta, principal at Buffalo School of Culinary Arts and Hospitality Management. “We want to keep our students abreast of the current trends in the culinary industry and this combines two of the industry’s hottest movements: food trucks and farm-to-table.” CCE’s Harvest New York agricultural economic development team has been helping to pave the way for the “Farm to School to You” food truck. Specialist Cheryl Thayer and farm-to-institution coordinator Becky O’Connor are heavily involved in the district’s farm-to-school program, and helped BPS conceptualize the project. Thayer and O’Connor worked with local farmers to procure fresh produce, dairy and meat products for the entire BPS farm-to -school program. “The Buffalo farm-to-school team saw the food truck as a literal and figurative vehicle to address persistent challenges in their farm-to-school program, which include forging a deeper connection to the classroom, providing a more effective means to engage the community, and offering a solution to expand the program beyond just the school lunch program,” Thayer said. “It also amplifies the district’s ability to use and purchase more locally grown and produced food.” Play CCE Helps Launch Buffalo Farm to School to You Food Truck During the 2019-20 school year, the Buffalo farm to school program spent more than $2 million – more than 40% of its lunch expenditures – on New York produce, juice, dairy and beef products. Meals from the food truck include nachos, hot dogs and rice bowls, which use beef raised by Empire State Farms and beans grown by Genesee Valley Bean Co. The tomatoes, lettuce and bell peppers used in these menu items are from Eden Valley Growers, a vegetable cooperative in Eden, New York, and Groundwork Market Garden, an urban farm in Buffalo. “The district’s commitment to support beginner and urban farmers is an important one,” Thayer said. “Those types of operations typically struggle to enter institutional markets because they can’t meet volume and distribution needs. Yet, they are located in the district’s backyard and are critically important members of our community food system.” R.J. Anderson is a writer, photographer and communications team leader for Cornell Cooperative Extension. Header image: Hungry customers outside the West Hertel Academy place their orders at the new Buffalo Public Schools’ food truck, developed with input from Cornell Cooperative Extension. Photo by R.J. Anderson. This article also appeared in the Cornell Chronicle. Keep Exploring News May 31, 2022 Quick View Higher dengue rates found near public transit in low-income areas In Medellin, Colombia, low-income residents who lived in close proximity to new public transit stations had increased rates of mosquito-transmitted dengue fever, according to a new study. Department of Entomology Entomology Global Development News May 24, 2022 Quick View Three students win Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards Matthew Borinshteyn ’25, Jennifer Lee ’23 and Avery MacLean ’22 received the 2022 Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards in recognition of their significant involvement in community service. Agriculture Sciences Major Natural Resources and the Environment School of Integrative Plant Science Explore All Stories We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information