Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Applied Ecology Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About Contact Us Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Alumni and Giving News International Programs Seminars Employment Opportunities Students Undergraduate Graduate Courses Careers in Ecology People Faculty Staff Leadership Graduate Students Research Facilities Programs and Centers NC State University Agromedicine Program Center for Applied Aquatic Ecology NC Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit SE Climate Adaption Science Center Extension Aquaculture Fisheries and Pond Management Fish Consumption Toxicology and Agromedicine Employee Portal Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About Students People Research Programs and Centers Extension Employee Portal Full Site Navigation About Contact Us Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Alumni and Giving News International Programs Seminars Employment Opportunities Students Undergraduate Graduate Courses Careers in Ecology People Faculty Staff Leadership Graduate Students Research Facilities Programs and Centers NC State University Agromedicine Program Center for Applied Aquatic Ecology NC Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit SE Climate Adaption Science Center Extension Aquaculture Fisheries and Pond Management Fish Consumption Toxicology and Agromedicine Ecosystem Experts Advancing and sharing fundamental and novel discoveries in ecology and applying them to the greatest environmental challenges. The Department of Applied Ecology welcomes students, collaborators, and colleagues regardless of race, religion, gender identification, sexual orientation, age or disability status. The more diverse our department is the better we are; only diverse research teams are capable of solving the global environmental challenges faced by a diverse society. We are committed to self-evaluation, encouraging ongoing conversations and building an inclusive community, and have programs in place to produce meaningful outcomes. We also believe that actions speak louder than words, and we hope that you will be a part of our process to identify and undo structural racism in our institutions and research fields, and our progress towards anti-racism and equality. Understanding Our Planet Working at the intersection of basic and applied life sciences, our researchers utilize ecological approaches to solve local and global environmental challenges. Our topics of interest and levels of analysis range from single species mechanisms to ecosystem-wide fundamentals. Whether studying sunflower pollen to entire landscape functions, we are passionate about understanding the living world in order to serve the greater good. Together, we advance and share fundamental and novel discoveries in ecology and apply them to our greatest environmental challenges. Learn More Read our strategic plan Our 2019-2024 plan outlines three goals that collectively further our mission. 40,000+ Citations Our team aquatic research, entomology, fisheries, and theoretical ecology publications contribute to global environmental change. Browse our Library Preparing Leaders Our students get first-hand experiences that make our alumni top influencers in research, management, and education. Explore Student Pathways Cultivating Collaboration We work in partnership with research sites and programs across North Carolina, the United States, and the world. Find A Program Latest News Read More May 26, 2022 Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Longtime CALS professor Bob Franks looks forward to serving as the interim department head for Applied Ecology while the college and department search for a permanent department head. Read More May 21, 2022 Bee the Solution David talks about his work in apiculture through NC State’s Extension networks. Read More May 20, 2022 Keep Those Bee Hotels Buzzing Farms, Food and You sat with Elsa Youngsteadt to learn more about North Carolina’s bee populations for World Bee Day. Read More Subscribe to our newsletter Applied Ecology Campus Box 7617 NC State University Campus Raleigh, NC 27695-7617 NC State is an equal opportunity institution. Home Academics Research Extension News Programs and Centers Faculty Emergency Copyright Accessibility Diversity Subscribe to CALS Weekly Families First Coronavirus Response Act Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy