Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants News CCE connects local farms, foodies through Taste NY Image Caption Button John and Dawn Alfano, owners of JADA Hill Farm in Deposit, New York, with some of their Nigerian dwarf dairy goats. The Alfanos’ sales at Taste NY stores of hand-made goat’s milk soaps and creams, and other products, have offset the cost of running the farm. Photo by Jason Koski/Cornell University October 28, 2019 | By James Dean Cornell AgriTech Cornell Cooperative Extension Agriculture Food Share On a recent morning at JADA Hill Farm in Deposit, New York, Ziggy, a 5-month-old Nigerian dwarf goat, playfully head-butted a sister goat from her perch on a sun-drenched slab of rock. Owners John and Dawn Alfano have fed their 19 dairy goats a breakfast of sweet feed mixed with black sunflower seeds before releasing them to a hillside paddock, where they sunned themselves in dappled grass, snacked on crispy golden maple leaves and hopped on rocks or wooden spools. Several goats will mate this winter to help grow the small herd, and by next June the Alfanos will resume milking the females for the key ingredient in their handcrafted soaps and creams. “This is the real deal,” John says of the small-batch soaps that Dawn makes in their kitchen during evenings. “From goat to bathtub.” Before the tub, many JADA Hill products will make one important stop: shelves at five Taste NY retail stores across the state, whose robust sales have helped make the farm a self-sustaining enterprise. “It’s way beyond what we ever would have expected,” Dawn said of the business. Started in 2013 by New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and overseen by the state Department of Agriculture and Markets, Taste NY promotes food, beverages and gifts made by New York farmers, processors and artisans. The state has partnered with Cornell Cooperative Extension (CCE), which operates a dozen of the stores, including eight at high-traffic welcome centers. Richard Ball, state commissioner of Agriculture and Markets, said CCE’s statewide presence has provided valuable “boots on the ground” connecting growers and producers with customers craving local food. “People care about who grew their food, where they grew it and how they did it, and here’s a mechanism to connect the two, because extension is in every county,” Ball said. “They know the farmers, they know the regions, they know their needs.” Last year, Taste NY reported sales of $17.8 million, up from $1.5 million in 2014. The program has a retail presence in more than 70 locations, including concessions and carts in state parks, airports and train stations, and pop-up sites. More than 1,100 vendors rotate through Taste NY stores, selling goods such as syrup, honey, coffee, jam, cheese, beef jerky and spiedie sauce, in addition to soaps, shampoos, creams and pottery. Markets offer grab-and-go sandwiches or make them to order. Some are licensed to sell craft beer and cider. Taste NY helps advance CCE’s mission to grow the state’s agriculture and agritourism industries, said Victoria Giarratano, executive director at CCE in Broome County and the state extension specialist for food system projects. “Through the Taste NY project, extension has a platform to provide education and support. We are seeing an increase in small business development and farmers are expanding their production,” Giarratano said. “They’re aggregating more land use and extending their growing season, creating a need for additional infrastructure and jobs.” Extension educators might assist producers with jarring, labeling or packaging. Food safety and nutrition experts ensure products are shelf-stable and retail-ready, sometimes collaborating with Cornell AgriTech in Geneva. Economic development specialists connect products to the Taste NY retail network, where clerks encourage customers to visit farms and websites. Image Caption Button JADA Hill Farm’s goat’s milk soap and creams on a Taste NY store shelf. Farm owners John and Dawn Alfano said Taste NY business has far exceeded their expectations. Photo by Jason Koski/Cornell University Image Caption Button Shoppers explore made-in-New York food and gifts at the Taste NY store at the Cornell Cooperative Extension-Broome County office in Binghamton, New York. Photo by Jason Koski/Cornell University Image Caption Button Dana Putnam, owner with his wife, Laura, of Finding Home Farms in Middletown, New York, makes a batch of certified organic maple syrup. Sales grew significantly after partnering with the Taste NY store run by CCE-Dutchess County at the Taconic State Parkway’s Todd Hill Rest area. Photo by Finding Home Farms/Provided Finding Home credits the exposure and credibility gained there in part for helping it break into stores in and around New York City, including Fairway Market, which opened the door to new distributors. Now, instead of delivering a case of syrup here or there, Putnam could load pallets onto a semitractor-trailer. “Those sorts of efficiencies are super-important as you’re trying to leverage out your fixed costs and get to the point that you can become profitable,” Putnam said. Sales have increased seventeenfold since Finding Home began working with the Todd Hill store (and since expanding to five other Taste NY sites), Putnam said, growing more than 80% in both of the past two years. The Putnams built a 6,200-square-foot facility including a new maple sugarhouse, and their staff has grown from one part-time employee to 14 full- or part-time positions in 2018. “Taste NY absolutely has helped create some local jobs, and helped solidify our business with the kind of growth that we really needed to justify the investment we had made,” said Putnam. Back in Deposit, about a half-hour east of Binghamton, the Alfanos had been skeptical when CCE staff in Broome County first approached them about Taste NY. Insurance and bar coding requirements looked like too much trouble and expense for their small business, and the program seemed geared more toward food producers. But after CCE resolved those concerns, business with Taste NY took off, starting at the Southern Tier Welcome Center on Interstate 81. JADA Hill’s top sellers are goat’s milk soaps and creams featuring a “signature scent” – a fruity aroma humorously branded with a name suggested by a granddaughter and now trademarked: “Goat farts.” Dawn said she regularly receives calls, visits and online orders from people who have found their products at Taste NY. Retired from careers in construction and hair styling, respectively, John and Dawn Alfano have invested their profits in more goats, a larger store and other improvements at JADA Hill, where they host community events including a recent “Pumpkin Palooza.” “I’m so glad we did it,” Dawn said of the Taste NY partnership. “This is what pays for the farm.” It wasn’t obvious at first that CCE’s expertise might include running retail stores, Ball said. In hindsight, the Taste NY partnership was “a natural fit,” opening modern outlets for CCE’s mission that tap into the local food movement. “Growers are looking to extension again,” he said, “not only to educate them about growing their crops, but how to market their crops and about food safety and all the things that go along with it. It’s been a huge success.” This article also appeared in the Cornell Chronicle. Image Caption Button Taste NY has a presence in 71 welcome centers, markets, cafés, bars, concessions and product displays across the state. Photo from Taste NY Keep Exploring Field Note May 27, 2022 Quick View Digital agriculture internships spark interdisciplinary insights Benjamin Yeh ’22 is a Statistics major with a minor in Computer Science and Celia Walden ’22 is a Biometry and Statistics major. What do they have in common? Having no prior experience with agriculture, Yeh and Walden spent the last year working with the Cornell Nutrient Management Spear Program (NMSP) where they dove into the rapidly expanding field of digital agriculture. Animal Science Agriculture Digital Agriculture News May 24, 2022 Quick View Three students win Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards Matthew Borinshteyn ’25, Jennifer Lee ’23 and Avery MacLean ’22 received the 2022 Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards in recognition of their significant involvement in community service. Agriculture Sciences Major Natural Resources and the Environment School of Integrative Plant Science Explore All Stories We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information