Skip to main content Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Cornell University Home College of Agriculture & Life Sciences Home Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Global Development Main navigation Education & Training Undergraduate MPS Ph.D. Engaged Learning Professional Development & Training Our Work Research Outreach & Extension Our Initiatives Publications Our Impact News & Events News Events About People Diversity & Inclusion Navigation Main mobile navigation Education & Training Education & Training Overview Undergraduate MPS Ph.D. Engaged Learning Professional Development & Training Our Work Our Work Overview Research Outreach & Extension Our Initiatives Publications Our Impact Our Impact Overview News & Events News & Events Overview News Events About About Overview People Diversity & Inclusion Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Global Development For a flourishing world We confront the most urgent and complex challenges facing people and the planet. By uniting critical scholarship and practice at the intersections of agricultural, environmental, life, and social sciences, we advance a more equitable, sustainable, and food-secure world for all. Side-by-side with our diverse network of global and community partners, we engage in education with impact and create a flourishing world now and for future generations. With a focus on education with impact, our transdisciplinary approach emphasizes real-world engagement on a global scale — with communities in New York State, across the United States, and around the world. Our dynamic learning atmosphere and academic culture goes beyond purely technical work to provide a balance of skill-building and analytical coursework toward transformative solutions. Catalyzing change to build a more just world. Students in Global Development engage with life-changing research and social impact through our two majors, four minors, innovative graduate programs, impact-driven professional development and projects spanning 30+ countries. Learn more about degrees & programs in Global Development 60+ Faculty and academic staff 200+ Undergraduate students 70+ Graduate students New undergraduate major in Global Development Engage in critical scholarship and global field training while exploring some of the most urgent challenges facing people and the planet Discover more about the major A multidisciplinary approach The world is complex. But we believe understanding is possible. Our signature strengths We take an integrated and holistic approach to development. With a mission to advance a more equitable, sustainable, and food-secure world for all, we engage at the intersections of development to create a flourishing world now and for future generations. Explore our signature strengths Image Caption Button Warren Hall and the Ag Quad. Photo by Lindsay France Wellbeing and inclusion “A World that Leaves No One Behind” Studying the causes, manifestations and consequences of poverty and inequality in the global political economy, the histories and legacies of development projects, and alternative models to promote wellbeing Environmental sustainability “A Greener World and Greener Economies” Addressing strategies to mitigate or reverse the effects of climate change, helping people and communities adapt to new environmental realities, and researching the social and political dimensions of human-environment interactions Food and nutritional security “Sustainable and Sustaining Food Systems” Identifying pathways to sustainable food systems while investigating the social and political dynamics of these systems across the cycle from cultivation to distribution, consumption, and recycling Confronting global challenges We collaborate with partners in New York state and around the globe to make a difference. Explore some of our recent research, initiatives and student experiences: World ContinentsMap of the World Social Justice Community Development Food Systems Climate Change Environment Food Security Refresh Switch to New York State Map North America South America Africa Europe Asia Australia Social Justice Students capture oral histories of Ithaca leaders in new book Community Development How Fernando Galeana Rodriguez, Ph.D. '21 advocates for indigenous communities … Food Systems A farmer-led approach to food justice with Professor Rachel Bezner Kerr Climate Change Getting climate smart in Armenia Environment Human behavior and the reshaping of the world with Professor Jack Zinda Food Security Borlaug Global Rust Initiative story map documents dozen years of impact Confronting global challenges We collaborate with partners in New York state and around the globe to make a difference. Explore some of our recent research, initiatives and student experiences: Farmworkers Extension Engaged Learning Environment Community Building Rural Education Leadership Agriculture Refresh Switch to World Map Farmworkers Cooperative Extension project aims to vaccinate NYS’ vulnerable Extension A conversation with Professor Scott Peters on the history of extension systems Engaged Learning Students capture oral histories of Ithaca leaders in new book Environment Local planners play key role in conserving biodiversity Community Building New York rural schools respond as classrooms reopen Leadership The business case for investing in leadership training Agriculture Innovative Cornell program offers experiential learning on NYS farms On the international stage A home of global thought leaders. We work to build an equitable, environmentally sustainable world through boots-on-the-ground practice, cutting edge research, innovative teaching and community-based extension. Explore our 27 programs and projects. Engaged research Quick View Close quick view Engaged research We seek to understand before we seek to be understood. Our experts and students collaborate directly with individuals and communities to learn and develop new insights, policies and practices that make a direct impact. Play Jump Start your Career in International Agriculture with IARD 6020 - Global Development at Cornell Experiential learning Quick View Close quick view Experiential learning Students in Global Development are encouraged to pursue hands-on learning opportunities right here in local communities and across the globe, such as the international agriculture and rural development learning experience in India. 54+ Visiting scientists & fellows from over 20 countries Land acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York State and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. Making a sustainable impact Recent insights, news and events in the Department of Global Development Has taxonomy terms (with depth) Article Type (field_article_type) CALS MagazineReportField NoteFutureCastMultimediaNewsSpotlight Event Type (field_event_type) ClassConferenceExhibitFairFestivalField DayLectureMeetingSeminarWebinarWorkshop Spotlight Details Hale Ann Tufan: At the nexus of gender equality and agricultural research As a young researcher working with plant breeders to develop improved wheat varieties for smallholder farmers, Hale Ann Tufan confronted a profound dilemma. It wasn’t an issue of gnarly plant genetics or unruly research fields — commonplace... Department of Global Development School of Integrative Plant Science Plant Breeding and Genetics Section News May 25, 2022 Quick View SUNY Chancellor honors Global Development faculty member for teaching excellence Terry Tucker, Ph.D. ‘98 earned the 2022 SUNY Chancellor's Award for Excellence in Teaching in recognition of innovative instruction that brought global education to generations of students at Cornell and beyond. Tucker, professor of the practice... Department of Global Development Global Development News May 23, 2022 Quick View Target CO2 and non-carbon pollutants to slow climate change Mitigation strategies must target carbon dioxide alongside other largely neglected climate pollutants in order to stay below catastrophic climate tipping points. Department of Global Development Climate Change Environment Explore More News Connect with us. Follow us on social media to get the latest updates on our students, experts and programs. Follow us on Twitter Like us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Check us out on YouTube Follow us on Instagram Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information