Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Education Degrees & Programs Atmospheric Science Major Atmospheric Science Major Join top, passion-driven minds in weather and climate Cornell is the only Ivy League university offering an undergraduate program in Atmospheric Science. Major Minor Transfer Major in Atmospheric Science Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Students in Atmospheric Science study the behavior of weather and climate while gaining experience in the analysis, interpretation and forecasting of meteorological events. In addition to a great education, Cornell offers great experiences as well. Membership in our meteorology club, the Cornell Chapter of the American Meteorological Society (CCAMS), is open to all atmospheric science majors and other interested students. Many students in this program have won the American Meteorological Society’s prestigious Father James B. Macelwane award for outstanding undergraduate research in Atmospheric Science. Program Overview The curriculum is designed with two goals in mind. The basic curriculum meets the guidelines of the American Meteorological Society (AMS), and the requirements for employment in meteorology with the National Weather Service (NWS) and a variety of consulting and professional meteorological services. Students who are considering an advanced degree will also be well-prepared for graduate school, and typically add additional mathematics, physics and atmospheric science courses to the basic curriculum. Students who wish to broaden their studies of the environment may also choose from courses in the separate earth and atmospheric sciences major, which may be completed in conjunction with the atmospheric sciences major. Admissions Requirements CALS seeks students who maintain a rigorous high school curriculum and demonstrate an outstanding record of academic achievement. Admissions requirements include: 4 Units of English 4 Units of Mathematics, including calculus (BC Calculus recommended) 3 Units of Science (biology, chemistry and physics recommended, with emphasis on physics) Also recommended: an additional unit of science Major Requirements For a list of requirements for this major, please visit the B.S. Atmospheric Sciences program page. Sample Classes EAS 1340 – Weather Analysis and Forecasting Serves as an extension of the EAS 1330 first-year majors lab. The course provides an opportunity for formal weather briefings and explores specific atmospheric storms (synoptic and mesoscale, including the climatology of each storm type) through assigned readings, map analysis and weather discussions. EAS 2500 – Meteorological Observations and Instruments Demonstrates methods and principles of meteorological measurements and observations including surface, free-air and remote systems. Also presents information regarding instrument siting, mounting and protection; instrument response characteristics, calibration and standardization; and recorders and data logging systems. Laboratory exercises are in observation and data analysis. EAS 2680 – Climate and Global Warming Familiarizes students from a range of disciplines with such contemporary issues in climatology as global warming and El Niño. Introduces the natural greenhouse effect, past climates, and observed and projected climate changes and impacts. Also covers natural climate variations (e.g., El Niño) and their consequences and predictability. Learning Outcomes Function successfully in laboratory and field settings, including use of basic equipment and techniques and putting into practice the basic steps of the research process. Apply the scientific method using real-world data, including formulation of hypotheses, the use of varied approaches (experimental and observational) for testing hypotheses and appropriate interpretation of data encountered in class, lab, and the literature. Develop, apply, integrate and generate knowledge to analyze and solve problems in Atmospheric Science. Collect, organize, analyze and interpret quantitative information meaningfully, using mathematical and/or statistical tools and computer applications as appropriate to the discipline of Atmospheric Science. Conduct literature reviews to obtain information, including accessing all forms of literature to investigate topics, critiquing sources and organizing information in a meaningful way. Synthesize a cogent argument in language appropriate to the field of study, including written and oral communication skills and presentation of results using graphs and equations, when appropriate. Convey atmospheric science concepts, processes, weather forecasts (short to medium range), images and numerical weather model outputs to a diverse audience. Minor in Atmospheric Science A student may minor in Atmospheric Science by completing: Two of the following core courses: EAS 3410: Atmospheric Thermodynamics and Hydrostatics EAS 3420: Atmospheric Dynamics EAS 4470: Physical Meteorology And two of the following Earth and Atmospheric Science courses: EAS 1310: Basic Principles of Meteorology EAS 2500: Meteorological Observations and Instruments EAS 2680: Climate and Global Warming EAS 3050: Climate Dynamics EAS 3340: Microclimatology EAS 4350: Statistics in Meteorology and Climatology EAS 4510: Synoptic Meteorology II EAS 4560: Mesoscale Meteorology EAS 4570: Atmospheric Air Pollution EAS 4700: Advanced Weather Forecasting and Analysis EAS 6520: Advanced Atmospheric Dynamics Note: All courses must be taken at Cornell. Learn more about requirements for the Atmospheric Science minor Transfer Student Admissions Examine the behavior of weather and climate, and gain experience in the analysis, interpretation and forecasting of meteorological events. Academic Record Required: Strong academic record at the college level. Competitive applicants have at least a 3.0 (B) average. CALS Required Coursework should be completed or in-progress with a “B” or better before applying. The most competitive applicants are full-time students who have met the GPA and course requirements. For Transfers Entering as Sophomores (Or transfers with two full-time college semesters of study (post-high school) completed or in progress at time of application): Required: Two College Writing/English Composition courses or one writing/composition and Public Speaking Calculus I & II Introductory Biology I with lab For Transfers Entering as Juniors (Or transfers with four full-time college semesters of study (post-high school) completed or in progress at time of application). Required: Two College Writing/English Composition courses or one writing/composition and Public Speaking Calculus I & II Differential Equations, equivalent to MATH 2930 Statistics or Linear Algebra, equivalent to MATH 2940 Computer Programming at the level of CS 1110 (Python) Introductory Biology I with lab Physics I & II (calculus-based) with labs, at the content level of PHYS 1112 (Mechanics) and PHYS 2213 (Electromagnetism) Strongly Encouraged (Not Required): One semester of General (Inorganic) Chemistry at content level of CHEM 2070. Courses that meet the CALS social science and humanities requirements in Cultural Analysis, Historical Analysis, Knowledge, Cognition and Moral Reasoning, Literature and the Arts, Social and Behavioral Analysis and Foreign Language. Apply More about Atmospheric Science Careers in Atmospheric Science Atmospheric Sciences Meteorology More Back to list of careers Atmospheric Sciences Broadcast meteorologist Flight risk management Risk management consultant Weekend broadcast meteorologist Back to list of careers Meteorology Broadcast meteorologist and reporter Climate forecast meteorologist Meteorology consultant Risk communications analyst Back to list of careers More City Year teacher Data analyst Registered nurse NEWS SPOTLIGHT Cornell Climate Center at Front Line of Drought Response During the worst drought since the 1960s, irrigated farms in the Northeast suffered crop losses of up to 35 percent; for unirrigated farms, field crops and pasturage losses hit as high as 90 percent across the 12 states in the region. Explore your opportunities A CALS education goes beyond the classroom and gives students frequent opportunities to apply what they learn in real-world settings. Additional Programs Student Organizations Graduate Programs Study Abroad Research Research Overview Areas of Research EAS Global Research Map Department Resources Faculty & Experts Facilities Tools & Resources We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information