Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Education Degrees & Programs Global Development Global Development Major Working to improve lives, reduce inequality and protect the environment The world is complex, and the challenges can seem overwhelming. Here in the Department of Global Development, we unlock the energies and talents of experts from a range of disciplines to address some of the biggest problems facing humanity. With a focus on education with impact, our transdisciplinary approach emphasizes real-world engagement with communities in New York state and around the globe. Our dynamic learning atmosphere and academic culture goes beyond purely technical work to provide deep analysis and transformative solutions. We develop next-generation leaders through engaged and active learning that connects students with field experiences. We are committed to justice, to science, to people and we never stop striving to make direct social impact all around the globe. Major Transfer Major in Global Development Bachelor of Science (B.S.) The Global Development (GDEV) major responds to the need for innovative and critical thinking on the concept and practice of development. It prepares students to interpret problems, clarify solutions, develop leadership and foster positive social change. Students receive comprehensive training in the key ideas, issues, and debates central to global development. All GDEV students take a breadth of interdisciplinary coursework in development scholarship and practice and gain depth in a concentration of their choice, selecting from social and economic development, agriculture and food systems or environment and development. As a Global Development major, students are required to spend at least eight weeks in a field-based internship. In their field experience, students work with and learn from innovative development practitioners and community leaders, crafting cutting-edge strategies to address some of the world’s most significant challenges and advance the well-being of people and the planet. Admission requirements CALS seeks students who maintain a rigorous high school curriculum and demonstrate an outstanding record of academic achievement. 4 units of English 4 units of mathematics (including pre-calculus) 3 units of science (biology, chemistry and physics recommended) Also recommended: social science coursework; statistics Sample courses DSOC/IARD 1102: Introduction to Global Development This course introduces students to the history of the idea of development and to key definitions, theories, measures and debates in the study and practice of Global Development. We draw upon a variety of disciplines to address some of the “big questions” of this field: What is development? How do we measure development? Why are some countries (and people) poorer than others? Who are the key actors in the field of Global Development and how have they changed over time? What are some promising development interventions? How should we think about our own role in development? In exploring these questions, we will draw upon a variety of social science perspectives and approaches. DSOC/PLSCI 1300: Just Food This course provides a comprehensive review of the modern food system from the green revolution to the industrialized model of today. It offers a critical perspective on existing paradigms and insights into alternative approaches for producing food security, environmental stewardship, and equity in an era of climate change. The course is taught by an interdisciplinary team of instructors who bring insights from both the biophysical and social sciences and will ask students to consider their food using a systems-thinking lens. NTRES 2010: Environmental Conservation Our lives are touched increasingly by questions about environmental degradation at local, regional and global scales. Business-as-usual is being challenged. This course stimulates students to go beyond the often-simplistic portraits of environmental dilemmas offered by the mass media to gain a firmer basis for responsible stewardship and informed action on environmental issues. Students will practice and apply critical thinking skills. DSOC/IARD 2070: Social and Economic Dimensions of Development In this course, we will use a variety of active learning methods to map and explore the social and economic dimensions of development. Together we will examine leading edges of theory and practice, as well as long-standing and newly emerging lines of disagreement and difference. Our collective aim will be to support each other as we work to achieve critical as well as appreciative understandings of key ideas, theories, approaches, frameworks, models, tools and practices. Learning outcomes The following learning outcomes are general learning outcomes for the Global Development major. By the completion of the program, students will be able to: Describe, critique and debate competing global development paradigms, and craft and defend a personal philosophy of development. Demonstrate an ability to apply systems perspectives to analyses of current and future development problems, and to draw upon multiple disciplines for supporting evidence. Exhibit basic skills appropriate to development practice, including group facilitation, team building, multi-stakeholder problem assessment and priority setting, and participatory learning and action. Demonstrate proficiency in applying at least one research or program evaluation approach (quantitative, qualitative, participatory learning and action, etc.) in a real-world situation. Propose, plan, secure and carry out an approved summer or semester-long internship or professional practice activity. As part of that experience, demonstrate skill in reflective writing and cross-cultural communication. Exhibit attitudes of tolerance, humility and respect in interactions with others, including those who hold different perspectives and world views, or who differ along lines of race, ethnicity, nationality, gender, sexual identity, socioeconomic class or political or religious affiliation. Major requirements For a full list of core and concentration requirements, please visit the Global Development requirements page. Internships & engaged learning Reflecting the overall vision of the Department of Global Development as a unit that marries the study of development with experiential learning and active engagement with development practice, students are afforded opportunities to participate in progressively advanced engaged and experiential learning opportunities over the course of the major, including a required internship with an organization, agency, or business. The internship experience — whether domestic or international, and focused on policy, research or action — is intended to provide students with an opportunity to deepen their understanding of development while enhancing their skills as critical thinkers, communicators, collaborators, problem solvers and leaders. As the internship is designed to complement classroom-based learning, enabling students to deepen and expand their understanding of and skills for advancing development, it is supported through preparation and learning in and across several core courses and related assignments. Examples of experiences include: A semester abroad with the Cornell SIT program in Ghana that involves an internship with a local organization supporting women entrepreneurs. A summer internship with Cornell Cooperative Extension focused on understanding barriers and opportunities for colocation of solar installations and agriculture. A CALS Global Fellows placement conducting research with Soils, Food, and Healthy Communities (SFHC), a farmer-led organization that uses agroecological methods to improve food security and nutrition in Malawi. A summer internship with The Cornell Farmworker Program working with farmworkers to develop educational materials designed to prevent the spread of COVID-19 within farmworker housing. A summer research assistantship with a Global Development faculty member examining circular economies in upstate New York communities. An existing or self-designed summer internship opportunity, or study abroad program involving independent study or an internship, that is independent of Cornell and approved by the Department of Global Development (e.g., work with the World Bank, a community food security project; or a research institute examining climate change adaptation, etc.) Cornell offers several excellent domestic and international development-focused, internship opportunities through its rich array of study abroad programs, institutes, centers, and faculty-led research and outreach projects. There are also several external educational organizations that offer semester-based and summer internships. Regardless of which internship is ultimately chosen, it must be approved by the department through the required internship registration process. Explore our experiential learning opportunities. Transfer Learn about the challenges and opportunities within the field of global development, with concentrations in social and economic development, agriculture and food Systems and environment and development. Engaged and experiential learning opportunities are a key feature of this major. Transfer requirements Academic record Strong academic record at the college level. In general, competitive applicants have at least a 3.0 (B) average. CALS required coursework should be completed or in-progress with a “B” or better before applying. The most competitive applicants are full-time students who have met the GPA and course requirements. For transfers entering as sophomores (Or transfers with two full-time college semesters of study (post-high school) completed or in progress at time of application). Rising sophomore applicants (i.e., those who apply in their freshman year) are eligible to transfer. Due to our curriculum structure, we only accept Fall transfers. Current sophomores, juniors and seniors are not eligible to transfer into the Global Development major but may want to consider our one-year Master of Professional Studies (MPS) program offered in the Global Development. Transfer applicants must meet (or complete during the semester in which they apply) the following requirements to be considered for admission: One College Writing/English Composition course or one Public Speaking course One semester of Introductory Biology (lab strongly encouraged) One semester of Introductory Environmental Science/Conservation Statistics Apply More about Global Development Field-based learning experience In addition to the core and concentration requirements, all students participate in an 8-week field-based learning experience. For a full list of core and concentration requirements, please visit the Global Development major requirements page. Concentrations This major is designed for students who are interested in tackling the unique and interdisciplinary challenges facing the world. All students take a set of core foundational courses in development scholarship and practice, and then choose to deepen their studies in one of three concentrations: Social & economic development Agriculture & food systems Environment & development Back to list of careers Social & economic development The social and economic development concentration provides students an opportunity to explore global development issues, theories, policies and practices in greater depth using the theories, approaches and analytical frameworks of multiple social science disciplines. Students can develop individualized pathways through the concentration in consultation with their academic advisors. In addition, this concentration provides students planning to pursue graduate study in economics or sociology an opportunity to take advanced undergraduate coursework in those disciplines. Back to list of careers Agriculture & food systems This concentration is built on an integrative systems perspective that melds the biophysical, socio-economic and nutritional sciences towards the sustainable development of inclusive agriculture and food systems. Students will learn about how food is produced, significant trends and drivers of change and how to assess systems from an interdisciplinary perspective across cultural contexts. Critical contemporary debates about the future of food systems, such as sustainability, social justice and resilience, will be examined from various perspectives. Students will also gain foundational skills in agriculture and food systems, including analytics for decision-making, monitoring and evaluation and project management. This major is designed to support a range of career paths, including development practice, food policy, agricultural extension and academia. Back to list of careers Environment & development Students in this concentration will build their capacity to analyze how development affects the environment and how the environment shapes development. Through a range of courses, students will explore how society makes difficult choices concerning the control, use and long-term management of land, freshwater and marine resources. In engaging with these ethically complex and politically laden issues, students also examine how these topics are inextricably intertwined with issues of global food security and health, culture and identity, livelihood security and intergenerational environmental justice. Undergraduate program We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information