Skip to main content AIISP is a CALS-based unit that provides Indigenous-related academic, student support and outreach services to Cornell University. Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program Main navigation About Land Acknowledgment History News Community Partners People Events Academics & Research AIISP Funding Research AIIS Undergraduate Minor AIIS Graduate Minor AIIS Courses Resources Student Life Leadership & Professional Development Student Organizations Caldwell Hall Resources Akwe:kon About Akwe:kon Programming & Events Engagement & Community Outreach House Resources Apply Future Students Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Navigation Main mobile navigation About About Overview Land Acknowledgment History News Community Partners People Events Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview AIISP Funding Research AIIS Undergraduate Minor AIIS Graduate Minor AIIS Courses Resources Student Life Student Life Overview Leadership & Professional Development Student Organizations Caldwell Hall Resources Akwe:kon Akwe:kon Overview About Akwe:kon Programming & Events Engagement & Community Outreach House Resources Apply Future Students Future Students Overview Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Akwe:kon The first residential program house in the nation founded to celebrate North American Indigenous cultures. Breadcrumb Home AIISP A unique sense of community Akwe:kon (pronounced "ah-GWAY'-gohn") is the first university residence hall in the country purposely built to celebrate North American Indigenous heritage. In the Mohawk language, Akwe:kon means "all of us." The spirit of this Haudenosaunee (Iroquois) word is reflected in the inclusiveness that Akwe:kon offers to its residents and the wider community. Akwe:kon's presence on campus goes beyond the beauty of its architecture, acting as a center for activities and events that emphasize the philosophies, values and traditions of many Indigenous cultures. Explore Akwe:kon Programming & events At Akwe:kon, we host many programs and activities throughout the year. Most of our programs are student initiated and led, with planning assistance from faculty and staff. Akwe:kon offers off-campus programs and events, such as visits to Indigenous communities in the region to supplement our on-campus programming. Our programming is always evolving based on student interest. Explore the wide array of events offered each year at Akwe:kon! Engagement & community outreach We are committed to provide opportunities for our community members to display and gain leadership experience, as well as teach students the importance of reciprocity. House resources Along with community engagement and programming on campus, Akwe:kon offers a number of resources for live-in students as well as to its community of out-of-house members. Interested in living at Akwe:kon? Any student at Cornell can apply to live at Akwe:kon. All first-year students are required to live on North Campus, and Akwe:kon is a great option to jump-start your connection to the Cornell community. Interested students are encouraged to learn more about Akwe:kon, including the history of the program house. Apply to live at Akwe:kon. Also in this section About Akwe:kon History Contact us here Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information