Skip to main content Agricultural and Human Sciences Menu Close About Welcome to AHS Alumni and Giving News Eloise S. Cofer Family Living Lecture Series Annual Reports Contact Us Undergraduate Agricultural Education Agricultural Science Minors Student Opportunities Graduate Start Your YFCS Journey YFCS Graduate Programs AEE Graduate Programs Career Opportunities Professional Development Teaching Opportunities in Ag Education LEAP Teaching Licensure Program People Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff State Ag Ed and FFA Faculty and Staff Resources Research Dinah E. Gore Teaching and Research Kitchens Extension Give Now About About Welcome to AHS Alumni and Giving News Eloise S. Cofer Family Living Lecture Series Annual Reports Contact Us Undergraduate Undergraduate Agricultural Education Agricultural Science Minors Student Opportunities Graduate Graduate Start Your YFCS Journey YFCS Graduate Programs AEE Graduate Programs Career Opportunities Career Opportunities Professional Development Teaching Opportunities in Ag Education LEAP Teaching Licensure Program People People Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff State Ag Ed and FFA Faculty and Staff Resources Research Research Dinah E. Gore Teaching and Research Kitchens Extension Extension Give Now Empowering People and Communities In the Department of Agricultural and Human Sciences, we nurture strong and healthy families, communities and agriculture. We educate students in agriculture and human sciences, find solutions to problems and extend knowledge to create healthy communities for youth and families. Our academic programs prepare students for in-demand careers where they can nurture strong and healthy families, communities, and agriculture. Our faculty develop programs and conduct applied research that leads to healthy and informed families and communities. Our Extension agents and specialists translate the best available science and evidence to change the lives of youth and families. Department news More Stories Agriculture, Leadership, and Goats: Kaena Wallace Prince’s NC State and Career Journey AEE Alumni, Kaena Wallace Prince, her path to NC State, working as an agent and owning a goat farm. Three AHS Department Members Present at the National Health Outreach Conference Three members of the AHS department recently presented at the 2022 National Health Outreach Conference, which was recently held in Kansas City, MO. The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. ahs newsletter Connect with Us Stay current on the latest department news by subscribing to our email newsletter. Subscribe Now Upcoming Events All Events Jun 01 Wednesday Agricultural Institute Fall Admission Application Deadline Jun 01 Wednesday Crop and Soil Sciences Feeds the Pack Jun 21 Tuesday3:00 PM Changing Narratives To Better Support Native American Students Agricultural and Human Sciences Home 4101 Beryl Road Raleigh, NC 27695-7606 NC State is an equal opportunity institution. Campus Map - 4101 Beryl Road Apply Undergraduate Graduate Research Extension People Faculty and Staff Resources Accessibility Diversity Give News Subscribe to CALS Weekly CALS Communications Families First Coronavirus Response Act Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.