Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Education Degrees & Programs Communication Major & Minor Communication Major & Minor Tackle challenges as diverse as the world itself Communication, in one form or another, has been a core part of the social sciences at Cornell since its founding. Students in the Department of Communication learn to understand audiences, shape messages and interact with individuals and technologies. Through the study of science, media and technology, you’ll develop essential skills for leading in the rapidly changing communication landscape. Communication is a process engaged in by people, between people and with the aim of influencing people. It happens inside of real social contexts: communities, organizations, teams, nations, societies. It happens with the aid of information technologies that are themselves a product of the social world. As a Communication student, you’ll gain the theoretical strength and methodological rigor of the social sciences, and get to learn—even take part in—grounded, empirical research about some of the most pressing social issues of the day. Major Minor Transfer Major in Communication Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Communication majors at Cornell learn how communication interacts with media, science, and technology, while developing skills to succeed in complex work environments. The communication curriculum offers students opportunities to experience the breadth of the field and to develop a depth of understanding in a chosen focus area. Specific topics that Communication majors study are as diverse as the faculty and students who explore these areas in Communication research projects and courses. Program Overview The core curriculum provides majors with a foundation in fundamental communication theories and concepts, allows them to develop oral and written communication skills and instructs them in common communication research methods. After completing the core curriculum, all majors must complete an additional eighteen credits in communication courses distributed among advanced writing and presentation courses, electives and focus area requirements. Students must also complete three credits of introductory-level statistics outside of the department as part of the major requirement. Communication majors participate in academic internships and other hands on experiences, including the Interaction Design Lab where students learn how technology can help to enable healthier, more socially connected and reflective living. Focus Areas Communication, Environment, Science and Health Communication Media Studies Communication and Information Technologies Communication and Social Influence Admission Requirements CALS seeks students who maintain a rigorous high school curriculum and demonstrate an outstanding record of academic achievement. 4 Units of English 4 Units of Mathematics* (including pre-calculus) 3 Units of Science (biology, chemistry and physics recommended) Also recommended: an additional unit of science; statistics Major Requirements Communication Major Requirements A. Core Courses (15 Credits) B. Focus Area Introductory Courses (6 Credits) C. Focus Area Upper Level Courses (6 Credits) D. Upper-Level Electives (9 Credits) E. Communication Practica (3 Credits) F. Additional COMM Major Requirements A. Core Courses (15 credits) COMM 1101 - Introduction to Communication (fall only) COMM 1300 - Visual Communication (winter, spring, summer) COMM 2010 - Oral Communication (fall, spring, summer) COMM 2310 - Writing About Communication (fall, spring, summer) COMM 2820 - Research Methods in Communication Studies (fall only) B. Focus Area (6 credits) COMM 2200 - Media Communication (fall, summer) COMM 2450 - Communication and Technology (fall, summer) COMM 2760 - Persuasion and Social Influence (spring only) COMM 2850 - Communication, Environment, Science and Health (spring only) C. Focus Area Upper Level (6 credits) Students must take six credits (two courses) of coursework within their declared Focus Area at the 3100+ level. D. Upper-Level COMM (9 credits) Students must complete 9 additional credit hours at the 3100+ level. Electives can come from any of the focus area lists. A student may elect to fulfill 3 of these credit hours by taking a third focus area introductory course. A maximum of 6 credits can be counted for 4970 or 4990 (combined). Refer to the Course and Time Roster for the most up-to-date offerings. ANTHR/COGST/STS 4330 - How Do We Know Nature? Language, Knowledge and the Environment - CESH COML/ENG/MUSIC/PMA 2703 - Thinking Media - CMS COMM 3100 Communication and Decision Making in Groups - CSI COMM 3110 Educational Psychology - CSI COMM 3150 Organizational Communication: Theory and Practice - CSI COMM 3189 Taking America’s Pulse - CSI COMM 3200 New Media and Society - CAT, CMS COMM 3210 Communication and the Environment - CESH, CMS COMM 3300 Media and Human Development - CESH, CAT, CMS, CSI COMM 3400 Personal Relationships and Technology - CAT, CSI COMM 3450 Human Computer Interaction Design - CAT COMM 3460 Crowds, Communities, and Technology - CAT, CSI COMM 3560 Computing Cultures - CSI, CAT COMM 3710 Crossing Cultures Through Film - CSI COMM 3720 Intercultural Communication - CSI COMM 3760 Planning Communication Campaigns - CSI, CMS, CESH COMM 4200 Public Opinion and Social Processes - CMS, CSI, CESH COMM 4201 Information Policy: Research, Analysis, and Design - CSI COMM 4220 Psychology of Entertainment Media - CAT, CESH, CMS COMM 4250 Sports and the Media - CMS COMM 4260 Gender & the Media - CMS COMM 4280 Communication Law - CMS, CSI COMM 4292 Sexual Identities and the Media - CMS COMM 4300 Ethics in New Media, Technology and Communication - CESH, CAT, CMS, CSI COMM 4350 Communicating Leadership and Ethics - CSI COMM 4360 Communication Networks and Social Capital - CAT, CMS COMM 4380 Communication in Virtual Worlds - CAT COMM 4400 Advanced Human-Computer Interaction Design - CAT COMM 4410 Communicating Self in Social Media - CAT COMM 4450 Computer-Mediated Communication - CAT COMM 4560 Community Involvement in Decision Making - CESH COMM 4650 Mobile Communication in Public Life - CAT, CMS COMM 4660 Public Communication of Science and Technology - CESH COMM 4760 Population Health Communication - CESH, CSI COMM 4860 Risk Communication - CESH, CSI COMM 4940 COMM Special Topics count ONLY if they are 3 credits (may be repeated if different topics) COMM 4970 COMM Individual Study COMM 4990 COMM Independent Research * More 31XX+ courses may be added. Students may not use the following courses to complete this area: COMM 2990 (Research – Freshman/Sophomore level) Courses ranging from COMM 3000 through 3099 COMM 4580 (The Science of Behavior) COMM 4950-4952 (NYCOMM, LACOMM and SiliCOMM) COMM 4960 (Communication Internship - only 2 credits, one per internship, may count towards graduation) COMM 4980 (TA - only 6 credits may count towards graduation) E. Communication Practica (3 credits) COMM 3010: Narrative for Digital Media COMM 3020: Science Writing for the Media COMM 3030: Organizational Writing COMM 3040: Writing and Editing for the Media COMM 3060: Creating a Personal Brand COMM 3070: Communicating for Impact: Developing Strategic Messages COMM 3080: Environmental & Sustainability Communication COMM 3090: Experiential Writing in the Yucatan * All courses in the 30XX range count as a Practica E. Additional COMM Major Requirements One First-Year Writing Workshop (FWS). (A score of 5 on the AP English Language exam is accepted.) Students must take an introductory statistics class, such as PAM 2100, AEM 2100, ILRST 2100, etc. A transfer credit or a score of 5 in AP statistics is also acceptable as credit for this requirement. Students should consult with CALS Student Services to ensure they have the appropriate credit for this requirement. Program Goals Develop familiarity with ideas fundamental to scholarship in the social sciences, with mastery of principles of key communication theories. Demonstrate understanding of how processes of social influence operate in communication contexts including science, media and technology. Apply systematic analytic skills to pressing social and policy issues. Develop communication knowledge and skills to enter into and succeed in complex social organizations. Recognize the foundations, assumptions, and methods of communication research, and be able to apply a wide range of empirical research methods to diverse intellectual questions. Write and speak lucidly, logically, and intelligently. Sample Classes COMM 2450 – Communication and Technology This course steps back from the bewildering changes in information technology and social media, to ask some fundamental questions about technology and its role in human behavior and society. Topics include the psychological aspects of computer-mediated communication; how design plays a role in the way we interface with technology and collaborate with each other; and the ways in which communication technology is situated inside social and institutional structures and cultural formations. COMM 2760 – Persuasion and Social Influence Social influence and persuasion are the most basic and important functions of communication. The course covers characteristics of persuasive messages, message sources, and targets; interpersonal influence; and influence in groups. Special emphasis is given to topics in health, science, risk. This course features interactive lectures, assignments that apply principles of persuasion to real world contexts, and an applied group research project. COMM 2850 – Communication, Environment, Science, & Health Environmental problems, public health issues, scientific research— in each of these areas, communication plays a fundamental role. From the media to individual conversations, from technical journals to textbooks, from lab notes to the web, communication helps define scientifically-based social issues and research findings. This course examines the institutional and intellectual contexts, processes, and practical constraints on communication in the sciences. COMM 2200 – Media Communication This course will provide an introductory understanding of media content, industries, policies, research and effects. Topics include the history of mediated communication, how the media operate, how they affect you and others, how society influences the creation of mediated messages, how messages are psychologically processed, who owns/controls the media, research to date on media content and effects and an overview of media policy. These topics will be examined through current theoretical and empirical research on mediated communication. In this sense, the course is designed to introduce you to topics that will be covered in depth in the media-related Communication courses here at Cornell. Learning Outcomes • Emerge educated to approach the world in analytical and critical ways. • Develop familiarity with ideas fundamental to scholarship in the social sciences, with mastery of principles of key communication theories. • Demonstrate understanding of how processes of social influence operate in communication contexts including science, media and technology. • Apply systematic analytic skills to pressing social and policy issues. • Develop communication knowledge and skills to enter into and succeed in complex social organizations. • Recognize the foundations, assumptions and methods of communication research, and be able to apply a wide range of empirical research methods to diverse intellectual questions. • Write and speak lucidly, logically and intelligently. Minor in Communication The Minor Program of Study in Communication gives students a balanced background in communication theory and practice. The broad applications of our curriculum will contribute and advance your understanding of a broad range of disciplines. The minor consists of 21 credit hours. Minor Requirements The minor consists of 21 credit hours. Students must complete: COMM 1101: Introduction to Communication – Fall only Two courses from the following, only one of which can be a writing course (2310 or 3000-3099): COMM 1300: Visual Communication – Spring only COMM 2010: Oral Communication COMM 2310: Writing about Communication (Very limited spots for non-majors) COMM 2820: Research Methods in Communication Studies – Fall only COMM 3010: Writing and Producing the Narrative for Digital Media COMM 3020: Science Writing for the Media COMM 3030: Organizational Writing COMM 3040: Writing and Editing for the Media COMM 3060: Connecting Experience: Creating a Personal Brand and Implementing an ePortfolio COMM 3070: Communicating Today: Creating Strategic Messages Across Media COMM 3080: Environmental & Sustainability Communication COMM 3090: Experiential Writing in the Yucatan: Environmental and Cultural Communication One Focus Area Introductory Course from the following: COMM 2200: Media Communication – Fall & Summer only COMM 2450: Communication and Technology – Fall & Summer only COMM 2760: Persuasion and Social Influence – Spring only COMM 2850: Communication, Environment, Science and Health – Spring only Three courses of upper-level Communication from the following: ANTHR/COGST/STS 4330 - How Do We Know Nature? Language, Knowledge and the Environment - CESH COML/ENG/MUSIC/PMA 2703 - Thinking Media - CMS COMM 3100 Communication and Decision Making in Groups - CSI COMM 3110 Educational Psychology - CSI COMM 3150 Organizational Communication: Theory and Practice - CSI COMM 3189 Taking America’s Pulse - CSI COMM 3200 New Media and Society - CAT, CMS COMM 3210 Communication and the Environment - CESH, CMS COMM 3300 Media and Human Development - CESH, CAT, CMS, CSI COMM 3400 Personal Relationships and Technology - CAT, CSI COMM 3450 Human Computer Interaction Design - CAT COMM 3460 Crowds, Communities, and Technology - CAT, CSI COMM 3560 Computing Cultures - CSI, CAT COMM 3710 Crossing Cultures Through Film - CSI COMM 3720 Intercultural Communication - CSI COMM 3760 Planning Communication Campaigns - CSI, CMS, CESH COMM 4200 Public Opinion and Social Processes - CMS, CSI, CESH COMM 4201 Information Policy: Research, Analysis, and Design - CSI COMM 4220 Psychology of Entertainment Media - CAT, CESH, CMS COMM 4250 Sports and the Media - CMS COMM 4260 Gender & the Media - CMS COMM 4280 Communication Law - CMS, CSI COMM 4292 Sexual Identities and the Media - CMS COMM 4300 Ethics in New Media, Technology and Communication - CESH, CAT, CMS, CSI COMM 4350 Communicating Leadership and Ethics - CSI COMM 4360 Communication Networks and Social Capital - CAT, CMS COMM 4380 Communication in Virtual Worlds - CAT COMM 4400 Advanced Human-Computer Interaction Design - CAT COMM 4410 Communicating Self in Social Media - CAT COMM 4450 Computer-Mediated Communication - CAT COMM 4560 Community Involvement in Decision Making - CESH COMM 4650 Mobile Communication in Public Life - CAT, CMS COMM 4660 Public Communication of Science and Technology - CESH COMM 4760 Population Health Communication - CESH, CSI COMM 4860 Risk Communication - CESH, CSI COMM 4940 COMM Special Topics count ONLY if they are 3 credits (may be repeated if different topics) COMM 4970 COMM Individual Study COMM 4990 COMM Independent Research * There may be additional COMM Upper Level courses that are not listed. If you have a question about a particular course, contact program coordinator hec58 [at] cornell.edu (subject: Transfer%20Credit%20for%20COMM%20Minor) (Heather Crespin). Upper-Level Communication courses must be between COMM 3100 and 4990 (excluding COMM 4950-4952, 4960, and 4980). Only certain COMM 4940 Special Topics course will count in this area; please ask hec58 [at] cornell.edu (subject: Transfer%20Credit%20for%20COMM%20Minor) (Heather Crespin). Students may also use an additional Focus Area Intro Course or COMM 2840 in this area. Minor Transfer Credit Policy: Students can transfer up to 6 credits toward the 21 credits required for the minor. Only course equivalencies will count toward minor. To determine whether a course will be counted as an equivalent, please email hec58 [at] cornell.edu (subject: Transfer%20Credit%20for%20COMM%20Minor) (Heather Crespin )with a copy of the syllabus of the course in question. Enrollment Acceptance is automatic to the minor. If you complete the form, you are a listed a pursuing the minor until you let us know that you are no longer completing it. There is no penalty for lack of completion. Declare the Communication Minor Transfer requirements Study communication processes and put theory to use in understanding audiences, shaping messages, and interacting with individuals and technologies. Focus areas include: environmental, science and health, media studies, information technologies and social influence. Academic Record Strong academic record at the college level. In general, competitive applicants have at least a 3.0 (B) average. CALS Required Coursework should be completed or in-progress with a “B” or better before applying. The most competitive applicants are full-time students who have met the GPA and course requirements. For Transfers Entering as Sophomores Required: Two College Writing/English Composition courses or one writing/composition and Public Speaking Statistics Psychology or Sociology Strongly encouraged (but not required): One full year of Introductory Biology (labs recommended) One course in either General (Inorganic) Chemistry I or Physics I (labs recommended) For Transfers Entering as Juniors (Or transfers with four full-time college semesters of study (post-high school) completed or in progress at time of application). Required: Two College Writing/English Composition courses or one writing/composition and Public Speaking Statistics Psychology Sociology General (Inorganic) Chemistry I or Physics I (labs recommended) Strongly encouraged (but not required): One full year of Introductory Biology (labs recommended) Courses that meet the CALS social science and humanities requirements in Cultural Analysis, Historical Analysis, Knowledge, Cognition and Moral Reasoning, Literature and the Arts, Social and Behavioral Analysis and Foreign Language Transfer Credit All courses must be approved by CALS for transfer to the College before they can be considered for counting toward the Communication major. The following only applies to the Communication major: Up to 12 credits of coursework may be counted towards Cornell Communication major, if approved, from transfer coursework. Students may transfer communication credits that are course equivalencies; that is, courses which are taught in our department. Students may transfer in one 3-credit communication practica course. Students may transfer in one 3-credit upper level elective (from a study abroad or an institution of higher education) that is communication-related, even if it is not necessarily equivalent. This must be approved by the advisor. Petitions for coursework outside of these parameters should be sent to the hec58 [at] cornell.edu (Undergraduate Program Coordinator, Heather Crespin.) In addition to the 12 Communication credits, students may also transfer up to 12 credits toward their Outside Concentration, and 3 statistics credits, which are required for the Communication major. All questions regarding communication transfer credits should be sent to the hec58 [at] cornell.edu (Undergraduate Program Coordinator, Heather Crespin.) For students looking to transfer Communication courses toward the major, please include a copy of the syllabus (which includes required readings, assignments and course work) in your email to Heather. Apply More about Communication Careers in Communication Business Communication Education/Research Entertainment More Back to list of careers Business Marketing manager Gallery assistant Business analyst Product buyer Social media customer care Supply chain analyst Business development coordinator Wine sales and marketing manager Back to list of careers Communication Social media coordinator Public relations associate Advertising analyst Film production assistant Web designer Digital designer Journalism staff writer Digital marketing specialist Marketing manager Back to list of careers Education/Research Leadership coach Numeracy interventionist English instructor Elementary teacher Bilingual teacher Communication assistant Research aid UX researcher Research analyst Back to list of careers Entertainment Marketing coordinator Talent agent Non-scripted television assistant Creative artist assistant Professional hockey player Client service representative Back to list of careers More Law officer Harm reduction specialist Nonprofit marketing and communication manager Interaction Design Lab Discover research on social and technical issues in mobile computing, social networking, affective computing and design theory. The Department of Communication’s Interaction Design Lab’s goal is to understand how technology can help to enable healthier, more socially connected and reflective living. Explore the lab 35% of students joined an off-campus experience, such as Cornell Abroad, Urban Semester and Cornell in Hollywood. 20 Countries represented The Department of Communication includes students from 27 states and 20 countries. Student Organizations Student groups are a great way for students to explore their interest in many areas. Communication-related groups include: The Cornell Daily Sun Slope Media Centrally Isolated Film Festival The Thread Magazine The Big Red Sports Network Cornell Media Guild - WVBR Radio Explore your opportunities A CALS education goes beyond the classroom and gives students frequent opportunities to apply what they learn in real-world settings. Additional Programs COMM Honors Research Program Internship Opportunities Off-Campus Programs Communication Graduate Programs Student Organizations Extension & Outreach Outreach Programs Groups, Organizations & Communities Health Communication Career Connections Technology & Social Behavior Department Resources Communication Research Faculty & Experts Department Map Student Advisory Board News & Events We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information