Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants About Cornell CALS is a premier institution of scientific learning, tackling the complex challenges of our time through purpose-driven science. CALS researchers inspire NY's Soil Health and Climate Resiliency Act Cornell, CALS and New York farmers have been at the forefront of the soil health movement. CALS researchers inspire NY&#039;s Soil Health and Climate Resiliency Act Study takes on e-cigarette warning ‘paradox’ A team of CALS researchers is helping regulators identify the most effective health warnings to include in ads for electronic cigarettes. Study takes on e-cigarette warning ‘paradox’ With new barley variety, Cornell leads the way for brewers CALS researchers released a new variety of New York-adapted spring barley to meet industry needs created by a 2012 Farm Brewery Bill. With new barley variety, Cornell leads the way for brewers Improved CRISPR gene drive solves problems of old tech New gene drives uses genetic engineering to create a desired mutation that spreads throughout a population in fewer than 10 generations. Improved CRISPR gene drive solves problems of old tech Breadcrumb Home About You want to change the world. So do we. We are a community with an uncommon sense of a common goal: to leave the world better than we found it. Ambitious? Sure. But Cornell CALS has been changing the world for over a century and will be doing so for a century more. Founded in agriculture and focused on life, we are pioneers who have shaped contemporary science and eagerly embraced international opportunity, while always serving the people in the state of New York. The Wall Street Journal/Times of Higher Education 2020 College Rankings ranked CALS #1 in agriculture, agriculture operations and related sciences. Our purpose This is the charge that motivates us: CALS tackles the challenges of our times through purpose-driven science that advances understanding and improves life. CALS at a glance 16 Departments 7 departments shared with other Cornell colleges and schools 2 Schools The Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics & Management and the School of Integrative Plant Science $238M Total research expenditures FY 2021 3,590 Undergraduate students As of May 2021 1,022 Graduate students As of May 2021 350 Faculty As of May 2021 We seek answers in order to find the next questions. Our mission These are our objectives and how we accomplish them: As a premier institution of scientific learning, we connect the life, agricultural, environmental and social sciences to provide world-class education, spark unexpected discoveries and inspire pioneering solutions. What we do We are actively pursuing our mission to serve the public through our education, research and extension/outreach efforts. Teaching passion-driven minds Learn about a CALS education Purpose-driven science in action Explore our research Sharing knowledge with the community Learn about outreach and extension Learn more about CALS Our leadership Our locations Our values & impact Contact us Diversity & inclusion Sustainability pledge Land-Grant mission Strategic direction Our history Newsroom Robust, responsible science statement Notable CALS alumni View more Latest news, discoveries and breakthroughs Explore the work we’re doing today and discover how it’s reshaping tomorrow. Has taxonomy terms (with depth) Article Type (field_article_type) CALS MagazineReportField NoteFutureCastMultimediaNewsSpotlight Event Type (field_event_type) ClassConferenceExhibitFairFestivalField DayLectureMeetingSeminarWebinarWorkshop News Details Higher dengue rates found near public transit in low-income areas In Medellin, Colombia, low-income residents who lived in close proximity to new public transit stations had increased rates of mosquito-transmitted dengue fever, according to a new study. Department of Entomology Entomology Global Development News May 24, 2022 Quick View Startup Roundup: Antithesis Foods, Guard Medical, C2i, Bactana Cornell startup Antithesis Foods and Bactana were awarded NSF small-business grants, as Guard Medical raises $11 million in Series B investments and C2i launches a disease test in Europe. Food Science Applied Economics Food News May 23, 2022 Quick View Students want some online learning features in ‘new normal’ While they value in-person interactions, undergraduate students want to keep some of the adaptations developed during online teaching, including online assignment submission and digital question answering, survey research finds. Office of Undergraduate Biology Neurobiology and Behavior Behavior View more news & stories We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information