Skip to main content Cornell Cooperative Extension is a collaboration between The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and The College of Human Ecology. Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Main navigation Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices About People News & Stories Extension Out Loud Podcast Navigation Main mobile navigation Our Work Our Work Overview Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Join Us Overview Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices Local Offices Overview About About Overview People News & Stories News & Stories Overview Extension Out Loud Podcast Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Jobs with CCE Employment opportunities  are available throughout New York State and on the Cornell University campus in Ithaca,  New York. Breadcrumb Home CCE Join Us Apply for a position with CCE External Applicants Visit "CCE Careers" to search current opportunities. Application guidance is available here. Internal Applicants Apply via  Workday  under the "Career, Talent and Performance" section. Notice to applicants This notice contains important information about applying for a position at Cornell Cooperative Extension as well as some of your rights and responsibilities as an applicant. About us Cornell Cooperative Extension is a collaboration among Cornell University, the United States Department of Agriculture, the State of New York, and the residents of New York state. As provided in New York State County Law Article five, Section 224, the independent county and regional extension service associations are locally operated under the direction of Cornell University as agent for the State of New York. County and regional extension service association employees are employed by their association to engage in educational work and are not employees of Cornell University. Disability accommodation available for Applicants If you require an accommodation for a disability so that you may participate in the selection process, you are encouraged to contact the Cornell Cooperative Extension association. See the job posting for local contact information. Please note: if you have a hearing impairment that requires relay assistance during any part of the hiring process, please call 711 to be connected to a Telecommunication Relay Service within your local area. There is no charge to use this service. Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer and educator Cornell Cooperative Extension is an employer and educator recognized for valuing Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action, protected veterans and individuals with disabilities. Individuals who bring a diverse perspective and are supportive of diversity are strongly encouraged to apply. Cornell Cooperative Extension is a community committed to diversity, inclusiveness and a welcoming environment. Consistent with this commitment, qualified individuals are considered for employment and employees are treated during employment without regard to any legally protected status, including age, race, creed, color, ex-offender status, national origin, citizenship, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, military status, sex, disability, predisposing genetic characteristics, marital status, domestic violence victim status or protected veteran status. If you become employed at Cornell Cooperative Extension it is the expectation that you will comply with all anti-discrimination laws and support Cornell Cooperative Extension’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. If you’d like more information about your EEO rights as an applicant under the law, view: Equal Employment Opportunity is the Law (PDF) "EEO is the Law" Posters Application fraud and misrepresentation Application materials will need to be submitted through the Workday platform in order to be considered for regular CCE positions. By applying, you certify that all statements (verbal and written) made on any and all material collected during the hiring process are true, complete and accurate and understand that misrepresentation or omission of facts called for in the employment application, resume, interview process or other application material may prohibit consideration for employment at Cornell Cooperative Extension and is cause for immediate termination if employed. Reference and background checking Applying for a specific job authorizes Cornell Cooperative Extension to contact any of your schools, your current* and former employers or other references for the purpose of verifying information and/or obtaining an account of your education, work experience and skills. By applying for a job you agree to hold any and all of your reference sources harmless and free of any liability for releasing such information. Please note that for some positions a more extensive background check is part of the employment decision making process and you will need to sign any necessary disclosure and release forms. (* Please note that the point at which your prospective hiring supervisor will contact your employer may vary; however, this is most commonly done on a pre- employment basis usually after the initial interview. This practice is rarely performed on a pre-interview basis. If you have concerns about having your current employer contacted, please communicate those concerns to the person who conducts your initial interview to determine what, if any, alternatives exist.) Employment eligibility verification All offers of employment by Cornell Cooperative Extension are contingent on the provision of satisfactory proof of your identity and legal authority to work in the United States. Prior to or on your first day of employment, you must comply with the requirements of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Employment Eligibility Verification (I-9 Form). Post Offer, Pre-Employment Medical Examination/Immunization(s) For some positions, after an offer of employment is made, a pre-employment medical examination or immunization(s) may be required by the hiring department as a condition of employment only if it is relevant to the job. By applying for a specific job, you acknowledge your understanding and agreement that failure to successfully complete a required post-offer, pre-employment medical examination or immunization(s) will result in Cornell Cooperative Extension rescinding the employment offer or terminating your employment. Offers of employment Please be advised that Cornell Cooperative Extension will not be bound by offers or conditions of employment other than those made in official offer letters. Pay Transparency Act As a federal contractor we have the requirement to comply with pay transparency rules. As an applicant you have rights under the Pay Transparency Act. For more information view: Pay Transparency Nondiscrimination Provision Questions? Email the recruiter listed on the job posting or  cce.recruitment [at] cornell.edu. Innovation, Action, Impact. Local Offices About CCE CCE News and Stories Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Get Connected CCE Directory Contact Us Jobs with CCE Summer Internships Work Teams Follow Us Facebook Youtube Channel Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Footer CCE CCE Privacy Policy CCE Staff Site Equal Opportunity Web Accessibility