Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Prestage Department of Poultry Science Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About News Awards and Honors Annual Reports Alumni and Giving Women in Poultry Science Poultry Science Hall of Fame Contact Us Students Undergraduate Graduate Careers Hiring Now Clubs and Programs People Faculty/EHRA Staff/SHRA Graduate Students Emeritus Adjunct Faculty Research Animal Food & Nutrition Consortium Research Labs Teaching and Research Facilities Virtual Chicken Research Seminars Poultry Extension Employee Portal Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About Students People Research Poultry Extension Employee Portal Full Site Navigation About News Awards and Honors Annual Reports Alumni and Giving Women in Poultry Science Poultry Science Hall of Fame Contact Us Students Undergraduate Graduate Careers Hiring Now Clubs and Programs People Faculty/EHRA Staff/SHRA Graduate Students Emeritus Adjunct Faculty Research Animal Food & Nutrition Consortium Research Labs Teaching and Research Facilities Virtual Chicken Research Seminars Hatching New Opportunities Career possibilities are boundless with a poultry science degree in your hands. Are you ready to make an impact in a growing global industry? High Demand for Poultry Professionals Poultry scientists are in high demand. Especially ours. As one of only six poultry science departments in the United States – and with increasing worldwide demand for poultry – it’s our job to support the burgeoning poultry industry. We provide excellence in teaching and research to meet the industry’s growing needs, making our department a global magnet for students and faculty. While we’re not the largest, we consider ourselves one of the best – bring us your best and let’s grow together. Explore Poultry Science New Video Homegrown | How Chicken Gets to the Market Have you ever wondered where your chicken breasts or game-day wings come from? From the hatchery to processing, see what it takes to get the chicken you love where you need it, safely and consistently. The latest video from Homegrown shows shows you just how chickens go from eggs to North Carolina tables. Avian Influenza is in the United States! Avian influenza is currently in the United States. Know the warning signs and take steps to help prevent the spread among backyard chickens. Read More Featured News Read More Koci Helps Keep COVID-19 Facts Straight With Snopes Matt Koci, a professor in the Prestage Department of Poultry Science with expertise in virology and pathogens, recently weighed in on COVID-19 for two articles on Snopes.com. Read More FAI Economic Development Study This report was jointly commissioned by CALS and CVM to evaluate core competencies in the animal and poultry sciences, veterinary medicine and associated disciplines, and to study the feasibility of building upon our capabilities by establishing a Food Animal Initiative (FAI). Read More USDA Defend the Flock Newsletter: Winter Edition 2022 Read about introductions to preventing avian influenza, bird health awareness week and more! Read the Winter Newsletter Here! Department News More News May 20, 2022 Poultry Science’s Curtis Praised for Transformative Leadership After more than 30 years working in higher education, 15 of those years at North Carolina State University, Patricia Curtis, department head for the Prestage Department of Poultry Science, is retiring beginning July 1. Read More Apr 14, 2022 North Carolina Easter Eggs are Going to Washington When the White House Easter Egg Roll resumed for the first time in three years on the South Lawn, North Carolina was well represented. Read More Mar 24, 2022 How Do We Know When the Pandemic is Over? And What Will ‘Normal’ Be Like? And have our experiences with COVID improved our ability to deal with other diseases? Read More Connect With Us We like to think of the Prestage Department of Poultry Science — our students, faculty and staff, alumni and friends — as one big family. Stay tuned to all that’s happening in the department: Connect on Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram Poultry Science Bi-Monthly Newsletter Subscribe to our bi-monthly newsletter — keep up with the department and see how we think and do the extraordinary. Get our latest news and stories straight to your inbox. Subscribe Prestage Department of Poultry Science Campus Box 7608 NC State University Campus Raleigh, NC 27695-7608 NC State is an equal opportunity institution. Apply CALS Students Departments Academics Research Extension Accessibility Diversity Faculty and Staff Resources Ways to Give News Subscribe to CALS News Bulletin Families First Coronavirus Response Act Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy