Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Education Degrees & Programs Viticulture & Enology Major and Minor Viticulture & Enology Major and Minor Follow your passion from the lab to the vineyard Use your curiosity for wine, grapes and science to help advance wine-making in New York and across the globe. Our Viticulture and Enology program prepares you to be a leader in the wine industry, apply scientific knowledge to another industry or career path, or enter graduate school in a number of science fields. Our students don't just hear about science, they practice it every day. The program includes coursework in chemistry, biology, plant science, communications and statistics as well as winemaking, vineyard development, economics, and management. You’ll also gain hands-on experience with wine and grape production in the program’s vineyard and teaching lab, which feature 25 different wine grapes, including all of the famous French varietals. Major Minor Transfer Major in Viticulture and Enology Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Cornell’s Viticulture & Enology major addresses the New York region’s unique challenges—the cool climate, soils, grape varieties, pests, and markets—while also providing a strong grounding in other regions’ growing and winemaking techniques. Students work with a broad variety of grapes and vinification techniques to produce wines in a region with large variability between growing seasons. In New York, great wine comes with great challenges. Which is why our graduates can produce anywhere. Admission Requirements CALS seeks students who maintain a rigorous high school curriculum and demonstrate an outstanding record of academic achievement. 4 Units of English 4 Units of Mathematics* (including pre-calculus) 3 Units of Science (biology, chemistry and physics recommended) Also recommended: an additional unit of science Major Requirements All students are required to fulfill CALS graduation requirements, in addition to major requirements. In addition to course requirements, students are required to complete: Capstone project - capstone form The capstone project will demonstrate a student’s synthesis of knowledge across course requirements. Projects are flexible and will be determined by the student, with input from the project advisor, by the end of the junior year. Students complete a capstone course in the fall of their senior year to plan and identify resources for their project. Internship – internship learning contract Students must complete at least one internship before degree completion. A learning contract between the student, internship supervisor, and the student’s advisor must also be completed prior to beginning the internship. For more information, visit our internships page. Curriculum Our curriculum provides a solid grounding in biology and chemistry, while giving students the flexibility to pursue a wider selection of elective courses in business, plant science, food science and other areas of interest. Find a complete list of viticulture and enology courses and descriptions on the Cornell University Courses of Study website. For information on pursuing a minor in business, please see The Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management information regarding minors. Students who matriculated under the previous curriculums may choose the curriculum to complete for graduation. For reference, you can view those curriculums here: bww57 [at] cornell.edu (subject: Request%20Viticulture%20Undergrad%20Curriculum) (View Viticulture Curriculum pdf) bww57 [at] cornell.edu (subject: Request%20Enology%20Undergrad%20Curriculum) (View Enology Curriculum pdf) Internships Internships are an integral part of the program, and with New York’s nearly 1,400 vineyards and wineries, there’s no end to interesting opportunities nearby. Students may also choose to study or intern in other U.S. wine regions or abroad. Many of our students have completed two or three internships by the time they graduate, gaining valuable skills and industry contacts. Sample Classes VIEN 3440 Viticulture and Vineyard Management Course in commercial grape production with an emphasis on the problems of production in cold climates. Students examine the genetics of the vine and learn principles of vineyard establishment, propagation, pruning and training, and conservation. Laboratory exercises and field trips offer hands-on experience. VIEN 1104 Introduction to Wines and Vines This course offers students the opportunity to learn about the science of wine flavor and grape growing. Lecture topics include: flavor components in wine; wine evaluations and sensory science; terroir; and the health effects of wine. VIEN 2204 Principles and Practices of Growing Grapes and Making Wines Examines the environmental, physiological, and anatomical bases for vineyard management, plus all aspects of winemaking from harvest decisions, to fermentation, to bottling. Learning Outcomes • Demonstrate broad proficiency in oral and written communication skills. • Demonstrate the ability to evaluate and synthesize existing knowledge in enology and viticulture. • Attain detailed knowledge of chemosensory and health-related compounds in wine and grapes. • Possess both practical and conceptual knowledge of wine microbiology and modern winemaking technologies, especially in relationship to sustainability. • Demonstrate knowledge of modern viticultural practices and why they are relevant to wine production Minor in Viticulture and Enology Through a minor in Viticulture and Enology, you will learn the essential natural history and biology of wine grapes, systems, and technologies of grape and wine production, as well as the basic chemistry of grape and wine analysis. Those interested in pursuing a minor in Viticulture and Enology need to complete at least 14 credits. Students must have a minimum GPA of 2.5 and are required to complete at least one college-level course in general biology and one course in general chemistry prior to or concurrent with starting the minor coursework. All courses must be taken as a letter grade and a “C” or better in each class is required. Minor Requirements Required core courses (8 credits): VIEN 1104 – Wines and Vines Lecture (Fall/Spring, 3 credits) VIEN 1105 - Wines and Vines Lab (Spring, 2 credits) VIEN 2204 – Grapes to Wines Lecture (Fall, 3 credits) A minimum of 6 additional credits chosen from the following courses: VIEN 2205 – Grapes to Wines Lab (Fall, 2 credits) VIEN 2310 – The Science and Technology of Beer (Spring, 1 credit) VIEN 2340 - Cider Production: Apples and Fermented Juice (Spring, 1 credit) VIEN 2360 – Distillation Principles and Practices Lecture (Spring, 1 credit) VIEN 2400 – Wines and Grapes: Composition and Analysis (Fall, 3 credits) VIEN 3200 – Grape Pest Management (Fall, 3 credits) VIEN 3440 – Viticulture and Vineyard Management (Spring, 2 credits) VIEN 4310 – The Science and Technology of Beer Laboratory (Spring, 1.5 credits) VIEN 4340 - Cider Production Laboratory (Spring, 1.5 credits) VIEN 4360 – Distillation Principles and Practices Laboratory (Spring, 1.5 credits) VIEN 4400 – Wine and Grape Flavor Chemistry (Spring, 3 credits) VIEN 4500 – Winemaking Theory and Practice I (Fall, 2 credits) VIEN 4510 – Winemaking Theory and Practice I Lab (Fall, 1 credit) VIEN 4650 – Wine Microbiology (Fall, 3 credits) VIEN 4700 – Winemaking Theory and Practice II (Spring, 2 credits) VIEN 4710 – Winemaking Theory and Practice II Lab (Spring, 1 credit) Application Process Schedule a meeting with the undergraduate coordinator, to discuss minor requirements. Complete the Viticulture and Enology Minor Application. Submit a copy to the undergraduate coordinator and retain a copy for your records. Submitting this application is required for inclusion on the V&E Minor email lists and directory, and students without a submitted application will not be considered pursuing a minor in Viticulture & Enology. We encourage you to complete it as soon as you know you would like to pursue the minor. Complete the courses required for the Viticulture and Enology minor. Prior to graduating it is the student’s responsibility to meet with the undergraduate coordinator to confirm completion of the minor prior to the last day of classes in the semester he/she graduates. Transfer Student Admissions Prepare to become a leader in the wine industry. The program includes coursework in winemaking, vineyard development, economics, and management. Academic Record Strong academic record at the college level. In general, competitive applicants have at least a 3.0 (B) average. CALS Required Coursework should be completed or in-progress with a “B” or better before applying. The most competitive applicants are full-time students who have met the GPA and course requirements. For transfers entering as sophomores For transfers entering as sophomores or transfers with two full-time college semesters of study (post-high school) completed or in progress at time of application. Required: One Introductory Biology course with lab General (Inorganic) Chemistry I with lab Two College Writing/English Composition courses or one writing/composition and Public Speaking Strongly encouraged (but not required): Statistics Additional Introductory Biology course Second chemistry course, preferably Organic Chemistry For transfers entering as juniors For transfers entering as juniors or transfers with four full-time college semesters of study (post-high school) completed or in progress at time of application. Required: One full academic year of Introductory Biology; at least one must include a lab Two College Writing/English Composition courses or one writing/composition and Public Speaking General (Inorganic) Chemistry I with lab Organic Chemistry Strongly encouraged (but not required): Microbiology Plant Biology Statistics Soil Science (viticulture concentration) Courses that meet the CALS social science and humanities requirements in Cultural Analysis, Historical Analysis, Knowledge, Cognition and Moral Reasoning, Literature and the Arts, Social and Behavioral Analysis and Foreign Language. Apply More about Viticulture and Enology Play 5 reasons to study viticulture and enology at Cornell Five reasons to study viticulture and enology at Cornell Careers in Viticulture & Enology Agriculture Business Farming Food Industry Back to list of careers Agriculture Business Branding, marketing and sales ambassador New product enologist Back to list of careers Farming Hopyard manager Assistant winemaker Vineyard manager Viticulture technician Back to list of careers Food Industry Head brewer Enologist Assistant cider maker Cellar hand Harvest technician Product development specialist Viticulture technician Put your passion into practice The Viticulture and Enology department works closely with many wineries in Central New York and worldwide, providing students with internship and collaborative opportunities. Browse undergraduate opportunities Image Caption Button Need caption. 25 Wine Grape Varieties Students gain hands-on experience with wine and grape production in the program’s vineyard. NYS Wine Analytical Laboratory Quick View Close quick view NYS Wine Analytical Laboratory We offer chemical, microbiological, and sensory analyses at our facility in the Department of Food Science at Cornell AgriTech at the New York State Agricultural Experiment Station in Geneva, N.Y., for quality assurance, trouble shooting and federal regulatory compliance. Vinification & Brewing Technology Lab Quick View Close quick view Vinification & Brewing Technology Lab The Cornell Vinification & Brewing Technology Laboratory is a pilot plant dedicated to research and teaching in wine and brewing sciences. Explore your opportunities A CALS education goes beyond the classroom and gives students frequent opportunities to apply what they learn in real-world settings. Additional Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Internships Career Opportunities Enology Certification Program Extension & Outreach Brewing Grape & Wine Grape Growing Regions Analytical Laboratory Bud Hardiness Data Program Resources Faculty & Experts Facilities News & Events Newsletters We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information