Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Animal Science Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State Home About News Events Alumni and Giving International Programs Safety Training and Resources Contact Us Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Transfer Students Online Learning Careers Internships Student Opportunities Summer Programs People Advisors Faculty and Staff Faculty Emeriti EHRA Professionals Post-Docs Research Extension Employee Portal Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State Home About Students People Research Extension Employee Portal Full Site Navigation About News Events Alumni and Giving International Programs Safety Training and Resources Contact Us Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Transfer Students Online Learning Careers Internships Student Opportunities Summer Programs People Advisors Faculty and Staff Faculty Emeriti EHRA Professionals Post-Docs Working With Creatures Great and Small We train leaders in the science of domestic mammals — from veterinary bioscience to domestic livestock production and business. A Passion for Improvement From companion animal care and nutrition to the management of complex food animal systems, our students become pioneers in various animal-related fields. Our celebrated faculty provide hands-on experiences that prepare students for careers in research, care, sales, production, business and education. Explore Animal Science Department News More News May 16, 2022 ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Best friends say ‘goodbye’ to NC State in the field where they first said ‘hello’ and started a lifelong friendship. Read More May 10, 2022 Researchers Conduct First Assessment of Metabolites in African Savanna Elephants The work advances our understanding of the relationship between metabolism and health in these endangered animals. Read More May 2, 2022 Bryson Jacobs: Finding His Fit in Animal Science Upon graduation, animal science senior Bryson Jacobs will complete an internship at Select Sires in Plain City, Ohio. He will then start vet school at The Ohio State University in the fall. Read More Events Full Calendar Jun1 Wednesday Agricultural Institute Fall Admission Application Deadline Jun1 Wednesday Crop and Soil Sciences Feeds the Pack Jun21 Tuesday 3:00 PM Changing Narratives To Better Support Native American Students Connect with Us Social Media Facebook CALS Weekly Stay current on the latest department and college news by subscribing to CALS Weekly, delivered to your inbox every Thursday. Subscribe to CALS Weekly Animal Science North Carolina State University Campus Box 7621 Raleigh, NC 27695-7621 NC State is an equal opportunity institution. About Students Directory Contact Alumni and Giving News Diversity Accessibility Copyright Emergency Sitemap Login Families First Coronavirus Response Act Campus Map Have feedback on our site? Need technical support? Email our technicians © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy