Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Research Our Experts Jonathon Schuldt Jonathon Schuldt Associate Professor, Department of Communication Jonathon P. Schuldt is an associate professor in the Department of Communication and interim Executive Director of the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research at Cornell University. His research explores the social psychology of public opinion, with a special focus on the domains of the environment, health, and U.S. politics. His research has appeared in peer-reviewed journals including Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Nature Climate Change, and Journal of Environmental Psychology, and his writing has appeared in national publications including the New York Times, Los Angeles Times, and Washington Post. He holds a bachelor's degree from Cornell and a Ph.D. in Social Psychology from the University of Michigan. Research Focus My research focuses on the factors that influence judgments, decisions, and public opinion in the health and environment domains. Recent work examines the intersection of social identity and communication processes in public engagement on environmental and sustainability issues. Outreach and Extension Focus A primary goal of our lab is to apply and extend theory in ways that inform real problems facing New York State and the world. Findings from the lab are routinely shared with local and national media outlets in order to maximize the potential public benefit of the work. Teaching Focus My overarching goal in teaching (whether the class is large or small) is to create an environment in which students can engage with the course material in ways that are relevant to their everyday lives. To that end, assignments in my courses typically focus on application: whether it's a writing assignment that applies a course concept to a real-world event, an op-ed piece that students actually submit for publication, or a group project that introduces students to active and collaborative social science research. Education BS, Cornell University PhD, University of Michigan Awards & Honors 2020 NSF Decision, Risk and Management Sciences RAPID award “Understanding increased social bias during the COVID-19 crisis in the United States” 2019 American Association for Public Opinion Research (AAPOR) Student-Faculty Diversity Pipeline Award 2019 Carnegie Junior Fellowship Nominee, Cornell University 2017 Top Faculty Paper Award, Environmental Communication Division, International Communication Association 2015 CALS Young Faculty Teaching Excellence Award, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Cornell University Courses Taught COMM 2179: Survey Data in the Information Age COMM 2850: Communication, Environment, Science, and Health COMM 3189: Taking America’s Pulse COMM 4200: Public Opinion and Social Processes COMM 6210: Advanced Communication and the Environment Contact Information 465 Mann Library Building Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-1543 jps56 [at] cornell.edu Additional Links Google Scholar Roper Center for Public Opinion Research Selected Publications Journal Publications Pearson, A.R., Schuldt, J.P., Naiman, S., Bacio, G.A., & Romero-Canyas, R. (2021). Cultural determinants of climate change opinion: Familism predicts climate beliefs and policy support among U.S. Latinos. Climatic Change, 167. Sweet, S.K., Schuldt, J.P., Lehmann, J., Bossio, D.A., & Woolf, D. (2021). Perceptions of naturalness predict U.S. public support for carbon dioxide removal strategies. Climatic Change, 166. Kim, B., Kay, D.L., & Schuldt, J.P. (2021). Will I have to move because of climate change? Perceived likelihood of climate-related migration among the U.S. public. Climatic Change, 165. Song, Y., Huang, Z., Schuldt, J.P., & Y. Connie Yuan (2021). National prisms of a global phenomenon: A comparative study of press coverage of climate change in the U.S., U.K., and China. Journalism. Schuldt, J.P., Enns, P.K., Konrath, S.H., & Schwarz, N. (2020). Shifting views on “global warming” and “climate change” in the United States. Journal of Environmental Psychology, 69, 101414. Schuldt, J.P., Eiseman, D.L., & Hoffmann, M.P. (2020). Public concern about climate change impacts on food choices: The interplay of knowledge and politics. Agriculture and Human Values, 37, 885-893. Lewis, N.A., Bravo, M., Naiman, S., Pearson, A.R., Romero-Canyas, R., Schuldt, J.P., & Song, H. (2020). The complementarity of qualitative and quantitative methods in environmental psychology. MethodsX, 7, 100943. Song, H., Lewis, N.A., Ballew, M.T., Bravo, M., *Davydova, J., Gao, H.O., Garcia, R., Hiltner, S., Naiman, S., Pearson, A.R., Romero-Canyas, R., & Schuldt, J.P. (2020). What counts as an “environmental” issue? Differences in issue conceptualization by race, class, and socioeconomic status. Journal of Environmental Psychology, 68, 101404. Schuldt, J.P., Yuan, Y.C., Song, Y., & Liu, K. (2019). Beliefs about whose beliefs? Second-order beliefs and support for China’s coal-to-gas policy. Journal of Environmental Psychology, 66, 101367. Pearson, A.R., Schuldt, J.P., Romero-Canyas, R., Ballew, M.T., & Larson-Konar, D. (2018). Diverse segments of the US public underestimate the environmental concerns of minority and low-income Americans. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 115, 12429-12434. Presentations and Activities Responses to the U.S. family separation crisis: Insights from a panel survey of likely voters during the 2018 Midterm elections. International Convention of Psychological Science. March 2019. Association for Psychological Science (APS). Paris, France. How groups help and hinder sustainability: Insights beyond the lab. 2018 SPSP Annual Convention. March 2018. Society for Personality and Social Psychology. Atlanta, GA United States. Group norm violations in an online environmental social network: Effects on impression formation and intergroup judgments. 2018 SPSP Convention. March 2018. Society for Personality and Social Psychology. Atlanta, GA United States. Stereotypes undermine public engagement with sustainability initiatives: Evidence from a national-level survey experiment. 2018 SPSP Convention. March 2018. Society for Personality and Social Psychology . Atlanta, GA United States. Brief exposure to Pope Francis heightens moral beliefs about climate change. International Communication Association. 2017. San Diego, CA. Does the label really matter? Evidence that the US public continues to doubt "global warming" more than "climate change". Cambridge Conference on Risk and Uncertainty. June 2017. University of Cambridge. Cambridge, UK. Health halos as the cause and consequence of social judgments. Department of Psychology colloquium series. November 2015. University of Grenoble 2. Grenoble, France. Experimenting with climate change beliefs: 4 things that matter. Behavioral Economics and Decision Research seminar. September 2015. S.C. Johnson School of Management. Cornell University. Race and climate polarization. International Communication Association. May 2015. San Juan, PR. Do incidental emotions affect climate change beliefs and policy support? International Communication Association. May 2015. International Communication Association. San Juan, PR. Jonathon in the news News May 5, 2022 Quick View Misperceptions can threaten scientific advancement Misperceptions of marginalized and disadvantaged communities’ level of concern regarding COVID-19 and other issues could undermine cooperation and trust needed to address collective problems, according to new Cornell-led research. Department of Communication Communication Health + Nutrition News November 16, 2021 Quick View Center for Social Sciences awards fall ’21 grants The Cornell Center for Social Sciences grant program, which supports social science research by Cornell faculty members and conferences that directly benefit Cornell faculty and students, has awarded $142,636 for 15 proposals for fall 2021. Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Department of Communication Department of Entomology Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information