Skip to main content Molecular and Structural Biochemistry Menu Close Home About News Alumni and Giving International Programs Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Research Facilities Professional Development People Faculty Staff Post-Docs Graduate Students Associated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Give Now Home Home About About News Alumni and Giving International Programs Contact Us Undergraduate Undergraduate Graduate Graduate Research Research Facilities Professional Development People People Faculty Staff Post-Docs Graduate Students Associated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Give Now The Unseen World of Everything We make sense of the structures, mechanisms and chemical processes shared by all living things. Interested in medical school or a biotech career? We’ll help you get there. The Science of Life Starts Here Every living thing has a chemical structure. We research, experiment and pass on the knowledge we find examining all levels of biological organization — including molecular, biochemical, biophysical, structural and organismal. Our work changes lives. From researching protein interactions related to Alzheimer’s disease to developing vaccines for mosquito-borne viruses, our work impacts human health and well-being around the world. We’ll help you develop the critical thinking and communication skills needed to succeed in medical or graduate school and in biotech, biomedical or academic careers. Explore Biochemistry Department News More Biochemistry News ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. Selma Okyere-Badoo: Champion for Health Equity College of Agriculture and Life Sciences graduate Selma Okyere-Badoo plans to use her love for learning about new cultures to improve language barriers in the healthcare industry. A ‘Direct, Hands-On Research Experience’ for Undergraduate Students In one of Trino Ascencio-Ibanez’s recent publications, five out of the 11 authors were undergraduate students from the Biochemistry Undergraduate Research and Training Program. Upcoming Events All Events Jun 01 Wednesday Agricultural Institute Fall Admission Application Deadline Jun 01 Wednesday Crop and Soil Sciences Feeds the Pack CALS WEEKLY Connect with Us Stay current on the latest department and college news by subscribing to CALS Weekly, delivered to your inbox every Thursday. Subscribe to CALS Weekly Home Campus Box 7622 NC State University Campus 128 Polk Hall Raleigh, NC 27695-7622 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.