Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Crop and Soil Sciences Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About News Seminars Strategic Plan Alumni and Giving Contact Us Students Undergraduate Graduate Scholarships Careers Student Opportunities Graduation People Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty EPA Professionals Staff Graduate Students Post Docs Faculty and Staff Resources Research Research Programs Research for Commodities Extension Virtual Events Extension Programs Extension for Commodities Training Programs Lab Services Publications International Programs Employee Portal Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About Students People Research Extension International Programs Employee Portal Full Site Navigation About News Seminars Strategic Plan Alumni and Giving Contact Us Students Undergraduate Graduate Scholarships Careers Student Opportunities Graduation People Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty EPA Professionals Staff Graduate Students Post Docs Faculty and Staff Resources Research Research Programs Research for Commodities Extension Virtual Events Extension Programs Extension for Commodities Training Programs Lab Services Publications Growing the Future The solutions for feeding a growing population, conserving natural resources and dealing with climate change are rooted in crop and soil sciences. Leading the Field Get Your Hands Dirty As an undergraduate student in Crop and Soil Sciences, you will take courses specific to your program of study and in the basic sciences. You can tailor your program to your specific interests with elective courses. We roll up our sleeves and get our hands dirty to accomplish great things. Our world-class undergraduate and graduate programs prepare students to answer environmental and agricultural challenges, building on our rich history of growing agricultural and environmental sciences in North Carolina and around the globe. But our focus is on the future. We conduct research that drives innovation and new technology, expands understanding and provides science-based information to solve problems, but we don’t stop there. We make sure our graduates, stakeholders and partners put their gained knowledge and innovation to work for a better tomorrow. Explore Crop and Soil Sciences Featured News More News May 23, 2022 Gathering Energy: New Faculty Reflect the Changing Needs of Agriculture In response to the dynamic interplay of agriculture and the environment, we welcome four new faculty to expand our teaching, research, and Extension capabilities in climate-smart farming. Read More May 18, 2022 Vann Accepts New N.C. PSI Platform Director Role The North Carolina Plant Sciences Initiative is excited to announce that Dr. Rachel Vann will serve as the new Platform Director for Extension Outreach and Engagement. Read More May 2, 2022 NC State Takes 2nd in National Collegiate Soils Contest NC State’s Soil Judging Team placed second overall in the 2022 Collegiate Soil Judging Competition held at The Ohio State University. Read More Events Full Calendar Jun1 Wednesday Agricultural Institute Fall Admission Application Deadline Jun1 Wednesday Crop and Soil Sciences Feeds the Pack Jul6 Wednesday Crop and Soil Sciences Feeds the Pack @CropAndSoil 7 hours ago RT @foragesncsu: Visited Bermudagrass forage variety trial at Piedmont, NC. 1 yr old plots looking really good in May. ⁦@BarenbrugUSA⁩ ⁦@NC… Follow Us on Twitter Crop and Soil Sciences Campus Box 7620 NC State University Campus Raleigh, NC 27695-7620 NC State is an equal opportunity institution. Apply CALS Students Departments Academics Research Extension Accessibility Diversity Faculty and Staff Resources Families First Coronavirus Response Act Give News Subscribe to Crop and Soil Sciences News Contact Crop and Soil Sciences Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy