Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Diversity & Inclusion Fieldwork Fieldwork Building an inclusive experience outside of the classroom In CALS and across Cornell, many of us are involved in a field experience as part of a classroom or laboratory assignment, as part of a research program, or in building our academic or professional careers as scientists and researchers. “In the field” can range from national to international, from wilderness to rural to urban — and living conditions can range from solo remote camping to shared accommodations in field stations, on field vessels or in dormitories. Time in the field is essential to inspire students and build research programs, but can have devastating consequences if the experience includes harassment, bullying or discrimination. We've compiled research and resources to both educate you on the issues and provide mechanisms to adopt and enforce rules to ensure safe, accessible and inclusive fieldwork. Navigation Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Recommended articles "Safe Fieldwork Strategies for At-Risk Individuals" Strategies that acknowledge that some individuals encounter dangerous situations in the field due to their identity(ies) and minimize the chance of conflict between and among researchers and other communities present at field sites. Amelia-Juliette Demery and Monique Pipkin, Cornell University. "Anti-racism in the Outdoors" A resource guide for faculty, staff, students, extension educators, outdoor advocates, volunteers and community leaders as allies of black, indigenous and people of color in the outdoors. Compiled by Don Rakow, Cornell University, and Laura Brown, University of Connecticut. "Environmental Experiences Have Racial Roots: Who Gets to be Outdoorsy?" Suzanne Pierre P.h.D. ’19 shares insight gained from a student field ecology trip she led in the Adirondacks in the fall of 2016, highlighting racial division within natural spaces. Experience and shared stories "The Power of Persistence" (Asia L. Dowtin & Delphis F. Levia) "Camping While Black" (Outdoorsy Diva) "Birding While Black" (J. Drew Lanham) Additional Resources AdvanceGeo Partnership: Empowering geoscientists to transform workplace climate This website is dedicated to safe field experiences, with many resources of which we’ve included a sampling below: Harassment, bullying and discrimination leading to barriers Inclusivity / Accessibility in the Field Safety First – factors that can contribute to a safe and productive field environment Field Codes of Conduct – how to develop and implement best practices Fieldwork safety: Strategies to protect at-risk researchers when conducting fieldwork This website contains a recording of the February 2021 “Safer Science” panel discussion with interdisciplinary experts in fieldwork and diversity and inclusion, as well as a list of several field safety resources. "SAFE: Survey of Academic Field Experiences" "Trainees report harassment and assault” (Clancy et al. 2014. PLoS ONE 9, e102172) "Signaling Safety" "Characterizing Field Experiences and their Implications for Career Trajectory" (Nelson et al., 2017. American Anthropologist 119:710-722) "Field Team Leadership: Strategies for Successful Field Work" This blog-style article provides tips for field team leadership and for participants – (Erin Pettit) "Geology for everyone: Making the field accessible" (Christopher Atchison and Brett Gilley) “Scientists push barriers to diversity in the field sciences” (John Pickrell, Science 11 March 2020) Paper addresses fieldwork safety for minority scientists (Cornell Chronicle summary) Connect. Share. Build change with us. Building a diverse and inclusive community is a group effort. Share your ideas with the CALS Office for Diversity and Inclusion Contact the CALS Diversity & Inclusion Committee Explore Belonging at Cornell Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information