Skip to main content Plant and Microbial Biology Menu Close About Contact Us News Events Calendar Department History PMB Awards PMB Intranet Students Undergraduate Graduate Plant Biology Graduate Programs Microbiology Graduate Programs Master of Microbial Biotechnology Scholarships and Fellowships Career Opportunities Clubs and Programs Research Research Areas Research Facilities Student Research Opportunities International Programs Herbarium N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative Outreach People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Researchers and Postdocs Adjunct Faculty Associate Faculty Emeriti Alumni Alumni Mentoring Program Giving Give Now About About Contact Us News Events Calendar Department History PMB Awards PMB Intranet Students Students Undergraduate Graduate Plant Biology Graduate Programs Microbiology Graduate Programs Master of Microbial Biotechnology Scholarships and Fellowships Career Opportunities Clubs and Programs Research Research Research Areas Research Facilities Student Research Opportunities International Programs Herbarium Herbarium N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative Outreach Outreach People People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Researchers and Postdocs Adjunct Faculty Associate Faculty Emeriti Alumni Alumni Alumni Mentoring Program Giving Give Now Organisms That Sustain the Earth Plants and microbes are more than fascinating. They are indispensable to the health and well-being of our planet. Leaders in Our Field Plants and microbes are the foundation of life. Advancing discoveries in plant research is essential to civilization, and that’s exactly what we do. Our undergraduate and graduate students participate in research projects across an array of plant and microbiology disciplines — everything from biotechnology and cell biology to ecology and systematics. Students learn from experts who specialize not only in agriculturally important crops, but also those found in natural ecosystems, and model plants and microorganisms. Learn more about the Department of Plant and Microbial Biology PMB Seminars Seminars are held on Tuesdays at 4:00 pm in the Stephens Room, Thomas Hall. Refreshments are served at 3:45 pm. Want to receive announcements of our seminars? Email Dwayne Barnes (dabarnes@ncsu.edu). See Seminar Schedule Research and Employment Opportunities Our department blends fundamental principles with application, research and innovative teaching in an effort to think and do the extraordinary. Join Us Departmental News View Older Stories 2022 Plant and Microbial Biology Departmental Awards and Recognitions Congratulations to all PMB students, faculty and staff for all that you have accomplished this academic year. Student Spotlight: Shreeja Chhaya We had the chance to chat with Shreeja Chhaya, a first-year Master’s of Microbial Biotechnology student, to learn about her academic journey and plans for the future. Building Dedication Marks Milestone for N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences will dedicate the NC State University Plant Sciences Building on April 12, 2022, at 11 a.m. The event is free to attend, and the public is invited to join state officials, university leaders, donors and friends to celebrate this exciting milestone for the N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative. Connect With Us Stay current on the latest news from our department and the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) by subscribing to CALS Weekly, delivered to your inbox every Thursday. Subscribe Now Tweets by NCState_PMB PMB Twitter Content Submission Form Plant and Microbial Biology Home North Carolina State University Campus Box 7612 Raleigh, NC 27695-7612 919-515-2727 Campus Map Contact Us Departmental Directory Plant and Microbial Biology Intranet Students Alumni Giving Research Outreach Herbarium N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative News Research and Employment Opportunities Emergency Copyright Accessibility Login Diversity Families First Coronavirus Response Act Connect With Us Twitter LinkedIn © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.