Skip to main content Cornell Cooperative Extension is a collaboration between The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and The College of Human Ecology. Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Main navigation Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices About People News & Stories Extension Out Loud Podcast Navigation Main mobile navigation Our Work Our Work Overview Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Join Us Overview Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices Local Offices Overview About About Overview People News & Stories News & Stories Overview Extension Out Loud Podcast Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Environment Breadcrumb Home CCE Our Work Cornell Cooperative Extension (CCE) environment programs engage individuals and communities in conserving and sustaining the quality, diversity, and accessibility of New York's natural resources and environmental assets. Conserve and protect ecosystems, wildlife, fisheries, waterways, and forests Enhance resilience by mitigating and adapting to the impacts of climate change Boost energy efficiency and support renewable energy adoption Promote time spent in nature for personal well-being Featured Programs To learn about the programs that are offered in your area, visit or contact a local CCE office. Climate Smart Farming A team of Climate Smart Farming educators and researchers help NYS farmers reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural production and energy use, increase farm resiliency to extreme weather and climate variability, and sustainably increase productivity and income. Cornell Climate Stewards Cutting edge and research-based, the Climate Steward program teaches volunteers strategies for increasing their community’s resilience to climate change, and reducing their community’s impacts on the climate. Cornell Natural Resources and Environmental Sciences Youth Education Program This program engages educators and youth in authentic inquiry and experiential learning as they explore the natural environment. Smart Energy Choices With support from NYSERDA, CCE community energy advisors in Central NY, the Hudson Valley, Northern NY and the Southern Tier provide energy audits, educational opportunities, and access to NYSERDA funding. Advisors work with residents to reduce energy costs, increase efficiency and find options for adopting renewable energy. CCE specialists also advise farmers on energy best practices for NY state agriculture. Image Caption Button Hudson Valley resident consulting with a CCE energy adviser. Photo by R.J. Anderson, Cornell Cooperative Extension Master Forest Owner A network of over 140 experienced master forest owner volunteers provides private woodland owners of New York State with the information and encouragement necessary to manage their forest holdings wisely. Master Naturalist This science-based training program is designed to teach adults about New York’s natural resources, empowering them to educate others and participate in on-the-ground conservation and monitoring projects. NY Sea Grant NYSG is a cooperative program of the State University of New York (SUNY) and Cornell University which promotes the informed stewardship of coastal resources through integrated research, education, and extension services. Research Spotlight Solar Energy New York state has set ambitious goals to wean its economy off fossil fuels by 2050 while cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 85%. To help reach those goals, Cornell researchers are partnering with CCE to study ways the state’s mix of sun and farmland will factor into plans. Read "Cornell launches New York solar farm study" Research Spotlight The Digital Divide The National Science Foundation has awarded $1.5 million to Cornell engineers and researchers to help them bridge New York’s digital divide by designing the nation’s first statewide Internet of Things public infrastructure. Read "NSF funding to help erase upstate NY’s digital divide" Research Spotlight Nature Rx Associate Professor of Plant Science, Donald A. Rakow shares the health benefits of getting outdoors, He says, "a wealth of evidence in recent years shows that being active in nature, just sitting outside in nature, or even looking at a picture of nature have benefits to your overall wellbeing." Read "Nature Rx: the many benefits of time outdoors" Spotlight Slider Previous Next Partner organizations and programs Programs throughout Cornell University’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences partner with CCE educators on environment, natural resources, sustainable energy and climate change work. Civic Ecology Lab Conservation Education and Research Program Cornell Garden-Based Learning Cornell Maple Program ForestConnect New York State Integrated Pest Management Program Northeastern Integrated Pest Management Center Recycling Agricultural Plastics Program (RAPP) Wildlife Damage Management Program Stories Has taxonomy terms (with depth) Article Type (field_article_type) CALS MagazineReportField NoteFutureCastMultimediaNewsSpotlight Event Type (field_event_type) ClassConferenceExhibitFairFestivalField DayLectureMeetingSeminarWebinarWorkshop Offset Multimedia News Details Summer Boating Safety Summer is a great time to be on the water. For this episode of Extension Out Loud we talked with David White, of New York Sea Grant, about the basics of boating safety. Learn how you can help insure a safe and family-friendly experience on the... Cornell Cooperative Extension News June 22, 2021 Quick View Cornell Atkinson awards $1.8 million to fund vital collaborations Cornell Atkinson has awarded eleven Academic Venture Fund (AVF) seed grants for research by 40 faculty researchers representing eight Cornell colleges and 19 academic departments. The 2021 awards span 11 countries on five continents and many... Cornell Atkinson Department of Global Development Statistics and Data Science News June 1, 2021 Quick View Global conference to explore community-based service learning The 2021 International Conference on Community-Based Service-Learning in Borneo brings together students, faculty and community partners on June 14-15 to reflect on the process and experience of service-learning partnerships and community-based... Department of Global Development Natural Resources and the Environment Global Development Multimedia News February 23, 2021 Quick View Leading Through Extension with Humility and Responsibility In this episode of “Extension Out Loud,” a podcast by Cornell Cooperative Extension (CCE), Benjamin Houlton, the Ronald P. Lynch Dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, shares his journey and his vision for carrying forth Cornell’s... Cornell Cooperative Extension Department of Global Development Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Multimedia News October 27, 2020 Quick View Community Flood Watch Project engages residents in reporting and mitigation Residents of Jamaica Bay, coastal neighborhoods located in Brooklyn (Kings County) and Queens (Queens County), are experiencing tidal flooding at increasing frequency—as often as twice a month. Tidal flooding is also called sunny-day flooding... Cornell Cooperative Extension New York Sea Grant Institute Environment Load More Innovation, Action, Impact. Local Offices About CCE CCE News and Stories Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Get Connected CCE Directory Contact Us Jobs with CCE Summer Internships Work Teams Follow Us Facebook Youtube Channel Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Footer CCE CCE Privacy Policy CCE Staff Site Equal Opportunity Web Accessibility