Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Our Locations From Buffalo to Brooklyn and beyond Breadcrumb Home About Our Locations Our Locations From the shores of Lake Erie to the tip of Long Island and the Southern Tier to the North Country, you'll find Cornell CALS campuses, facilities and affiliates all around the Empire State. Many of our facilities are located on our near Cornell's main Ithaca, NY, campus, where our undergraduate programs take place. Our next largest location is Cornell AgriTech, our New York State Agricultural Experiment Station in Geneva, NY, which has branch stations on Lake Erie and in the Hudson Valley. The Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station (Cornell AES) encompasses research farms and greenhouses in Ithaca, Freeville, Willsboro, Aurora and Riverhead, NY. Explore more about each location via the interactive map below. Agricultural Experiment Stations Cornell AgriTech Cornell AES Navigation About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Close Willsboro Research Farm Willsboro Research Farm This 352-acre farm is located along Lake Champlain at the base of Willsboro Point. The farm has both clay and sandy soils, permitting a range of field experiments for optimizing management of agricultural resources. Fifty-two specially constructed field-scale drainage plots provide researchers with a unique opportunity to develop and test crop fertilizer application practices that are agriculturally, environmentally and economically sound.Learn more about Willsboro Research Farm Close Cornell AgriTech Cornell AgriTech Geneva, NY Formerly known as the New York State Agricultural Experiment Station, Cornell AgriTech is a leader in science-based, solutions-oriented food and agricultural research. By working across disciplines to explore questions from all sides and translate discovery into practice, Cornell AgriTech helps growers and businesses thrive.Learn more about Cornell AgriTech Close Uihlein Sugar Maple Field Station & Forest Uihlein Sugar Maple Field Station & Forest Lake Placid, NY Administered by the Department of Natural Resources, this 200+ acres of forest provides an outdoor laboratory for the study of maple syrup production, forest management, forest health, and agroforestry. Its sugar maple orchards are at the heart of a half-century northeast regional research initiative to identify and cultivate genetically improved, high sap sugar content maple trees. Learn more about Uihlein Sugar Maple Field Station & Forest Close The Hudson Valley Research Laboratory The Hudson Valley Research Laboratory Highland, NY The Hudson Valley Laboratory is a non-profit farmer-owned corporation dedicated to supporting research that will benefit the fruit and vegetable industries. It is permanently staffed by Cornell CALS scientists specializing in horticulture, plant pathology, and entomology. Four Cornell Cooperative Extension educators located there specialize in tree fruit, berries and grapes, vegetables, and organic production.Learn more about the Hudson Valley Research Laboratory Close Cornell Agricultural Experiment Station Cornell Agricultural Experiment Station Ithaca, NY The Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station links Cornell's world class research farms and plant growth facilities with one of the nation’s most comprehensive statewide cooperative extension systems. The station oversees 14,000 acres of farms and forests and more than a dozen research farms, facilities and greenhouses, providing critical research services to scientists.Learn more about Cornell AES Close Arnot Teaching & Research Forest Arnot Teaching & Research Forest Van Etten, NY Operated by the Department of Natural Resources, Arnot covers 4,200 acres in central New York, about 15 miles south of Ithaca. It is the largest actively managed forest owned by Cornell University. The forest is primarily comprised of mixed hardwoods and is home to one of two maple syrup research facilities operated by the Cornell Maple Program.Learn more about Arnot Forest Close Cornell Orchards, Lansing Cornell Orchards, Lansing The Cornell Orchards' Lansing location is one of two orchard sites managed by the Cornell Agricultural Experiment Station (CornellAES). Located in a temperature-moderated zone along Cayuga Lake, the site supports viticulture and pomology research, teaching and extension activities. The orchard includes 12 acres of wine grapes, apples and pear plantings, and basic support facilities.More about Cornell Orchards Close Homer C. Thompson Vegetable Research Farm Homer C. Thompson Vegetable Research Farm Freeville, NY A Cornell Agricultural Experiment Station facility, the Homer C. Thompson Vegetable Research Farm, 10 miles from the Cornell campus, is a site for interdisciplinary research aimed at optimizing vegetable production systems for the Northeast. The 200-acre farm includes a 30-acre parcel for the Freeville Organic Farm.More about Homer C. Thompson Farm Close Cornell University Ruminant Center Cornell University Ruminant Center Harford, NY Consisting of some 2600 acres, with dairy, beef and sheep units, the center is located about 15 miles southeast of our Ithaca campus. The headquarters building is associated with the Dairy Research Unit and contains offices, a conference room, livestock arena, research laboratory and housing for eight students. It is managed by the Department of Animal Science.Learn more about the Cornell University Ruminant Center Close Musgrave Research Farm Musgrave Research Farm Aurora, NY The 450-acre Musgrave Research Farm, 27 miles north of Cornell's Ithaca campus, provides productive arable land for applied agricultural research, teaching and extension. Twenty acres at the farm are certified organic by NOFA-NY Certified Organic, LLC, with another eight acres in transition. The farm is managed by a Cornell Agricultural Experiment Station facility.Learn more about Musgrave Research Farm Close Long Island Horticultural Research & Extension Center (LIHREC) Long Island Horticultural Research & Extension Center (LIHREC) The 68 acre facility features state-of-the-art greenhouses, a nursery and container production area, and a plant tissue culture facility. LIHREC specializes in floriculture, viticulture (grape production), and the research of vegetables, potatoes, and woody ornamentals. The center is managed by a Cornell Agricultural Experiment Station facility.Learn more about LIHREC Close Cornell Biological Field Station at Shackelton Point Cornell Biological Field Station at Shackelton Point Bridgeport, NY Located on New York’s largest interior lake, Oneida Lake, the field station explores the effects of invasive species and climate change on aquatic ecology and fisheries. Run by the Department of Natural Resources, its work addresses the issue of changing ecosystems in Oneida, the Great Lakes and other state inland lakes. Additionally, 60 years at the same location has produced a unique long-term ecosystem study.Learn more about Shackelton Point Close Cornell Lake Erie Research & Extension Laboratory (CLEREL) Cornell Lake Erie Research & Extension Laboratory (CLEREL) Portland, NY The lab is home to the Lake Erie Regional Grape Program, a partnership of Cornell University and Penn State University devoted to increasing yields, quality, diversity and improvement of cultivars, efficiency of production, profitability and adoption of environmentally sound cultural and pest management strategies. The program is supported by county Cornell Cooperative Extension. It is located on a 53-acre vineyard site.Learn more about CLEREL Close Little Moose Field Station Little Moose Field Station Old Forge, NY The station serves as the field headquarters for Cornell's aquatic research efforts in the Adirondack Mountain region of New York. The station includes: coldwater fish culture facilities, a wet lab for chemical analysis and field sample processing, indoor hatchery space, outdoor hatchery space, and temporary living quarters. It is managed and staffed through the Department of Natural Resources.Learn more about Little Moose Field Station Learn more about our locations. Affiliate Units Cornell Botanic Gardens The cultivated gardens, arboretum, and natural areas of the Botanic Gardens serve as outdoor classrooms for instruction Cornell's colleges, stewards the university’s iconic gorges and natural areas, and conducts vital conservation efforts. Get into the gardens Affiliate Units Shoals Marine Laboratory A collaboration of Cornell CALS and the University of New Hampshire and located on Appledore Island, Maine, has been a proud leader in marine science education, research, and outreach for over 50 years. Explore the shore Affiliate Units The Cornell Lab of Ornithology Dedicated to advancing the understanding and protection of the natural world, the world-famous "Lab of O" joins with people from all walks of life to make new scientific discoveries, share insights, and galvanize conservation action. Birdwatch with the best Spotlight Slider Previous Next Campus-Wide Composting Did you know that Cornell’s compost facility, operated by Farm Services, turns 4,000 tons of organic waste annually into high quality compost? Instead of trucking the waste to a landfill, it is composted at a location just one mile from campus. Composting reduces the amount of waste generated at the university, and lessens the need for energy-intensive transportation. Finished compost provides a valuable resource for CALS' local agricultural and landscape plantings. Learn more about our compost facility. Play Cornell Composting Facility Overview Big Red Buildings Go Green See how well you know the sustainable facilities around campus. Need a hint? We'll provide the location. Press for additional information on Ag Quad Ag Quad The floors in this building are made from the re-purposed marble partitions from pre-renovation bathrooms. Return to front of card Warren Hall Press for additional information on Cornell Botanic Gardens Cornell Botanic Gardens A solar thermal array on a green roof provides hot water and radiant heating to this building. Return to front of card The Brian C. Nevins Center Press for additional information on Judd Falls Road Judd Falls Road Over 79% of the construction waste generated during the renovation and expansion of this hall was diverted from landfills. Return to front of card Stocking Hall Press for additional information on Wing Drive Wing Drive This CALS facility was the first campus renovation project to earn LEED Certification. Return to front of card The Riley Robb Biofuels Laboratory. It is LEED Certified Gold. Press for additional information on Mann Drive Mann Drive As a way to mitigate storm water runoff, a rain garden was created directly north of the new 50-person classroom. The garden contains a variety of self-sustaining vegetation. Return to front of card Fernow Hall Press for additional information on Tower Road Tower Road Standing at fifteen stories high, this CALS building remains the tallest on campus. Return to front of card Bradfield Hall We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information