Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants College Leadership Breadcrumb Home About College Leadership Leading by example. Leveraging experience. The leadership of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences are also recognized leaders in their own fields, bringing invaluable insight and experience in fostering the continued success of CALS. Benjamin Z. Houlton, The Ronald P. Lynch Dean Benjamin Z. Houlton is the Ronald P. Lynch Dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and a Cornell University professor in the Departments of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and of Global Development. An accomplished international scientist, his research interests include global ecosystem processes, climate change solutions, and agricultural sustainability. As founding co-chair of the California Collaborative for Climate Change solutions, Ben works with researchers from key research institutions to accelerate the translation of research findings into practical climate solutions. He also directs farmland carbon sequestration projects to improve crop yields and create new financial markets for farmers and ranchers. Ben has published more than 130 works including peer-reviewed scientific articles, book chapters and published abstracts as tracked by Google Scholar. As part of his mission to connect scientific discovery with the public, he is also a frequent guest on regional and national news programs. Navigation About About Overview College Leadership Dean Senior Associate Deans Assistant and Associate Deans Advisory Councils Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Full Dean bio and office staff Meet the Dean Video Series Dean's public statements and videos Beth A. Ahner, Senior Associate Dean A professor of biological and environmental engineering, Beth Ahner's responsibilities include faculty affairs, department and program reviews, sponsored research oversight, management of core research funds, and academic aspects of facilities and human resources. Esther Angert, Senior Associate Dean A professor of microbiology, Esther Angert's responsibilities include faculty affairs, department and program reviews, sponsored research oversight, management of core research funds, and the academic aspects of facilities and human resources. Sahara Byrne, Senior Associate Dean A professor of communication, Sahara Byrne's responsibilities include student services, undergraduate admissions, professional programs and extended earning, and cross-college majors. Learn more about the Senior Associate Deans Assistant and Associate Deans Tony Caudill, Assistant Dean Sharon Detzer, Associate Dean Ann LaFave, Assistant Dean Jan Nyrop, Associate Dean Peter Paradise, Associate Dean Samara Sit, Associate Dean Margaret Smith, Associate Dean Chelsea Specht, Associate Dean Julie Suarez, Associate Dean Andy Vail, Assistant Dean Chris Watkins, Associate Dean More Information Assistant & Associate Deans We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information