Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Research Defying disciplinary boundaries to create measurable, scalable and enduring solutions since 1888. Food scientists slice time off salmonella identification process Researchers have developed a method to identify salmonella serotypes in a mere two hours, making it faster to ID sources of contamination. Food scientists slice time off salmonella identification process Moonbeam adds a big bang of flavor to Galaxy tomatoes Our newest grape tomato – Moonbeam – has joined a constellation of heirloom-style tomatoes in the 2020 High Mowing Organic Seeds catalog. Moonbeam adds a big bang of flavor to Galaxy tomatoes Genetics, not field conditions, makes hemp ‘go hot’ A new study shows that a hemp plant’s tendency to become too high in THC is determined by genetics and not as a response to growing conditions. Genetics, not field conditions, makes hemp ‘go hot’ Newly found bacteria fights climate change, soil pollutants CALS researchers have found a new species of soil bacteria that is particularly adept at breaking down organic matter. Newly found bacteria fights climate change, soil pollutants Breadcrumb Home Research Purpose-driven science? We literally wrote the book on it. The first undergraduate textbooks in mammology, ornithology and food science? Check. The first successful integration of botany and zoology in 1967’s Biological Science? Check. A 1925 handbook of nature study that is still a primary resource on the subject? Check. The research of Cornell CALS scientists, students and staff hasn’t just informed discovery and innovation, but it is also the foundation upon which fields of study have been built. In this section Research areas Robust, responsible science statement Student research Cornell AgriTech Cornell Agricultural Experiment Station Field stations, research farms and forests Our research impact We accelerate purpose-driven science by supporting inquiry that crosses disciplinary boundaries and stretches from discovery to invention. The world is complex and intertwined, and bringing global challenges into focus takes more than one lens. That’s why we focus on three overlapping spheres of inquiry. We work relentlessly to understand the systems that drive the human and natural worlds. We do this to promote the well-being of communities and to ensure access to sustainable food, energy and environmental resources. Because no single discipline is able to address the complex problems facing our communities, CALS researchers collaborate across disciplines. By working in and across multiple scientific areas, CALS is able to address the challenges and opportunities of the greatest relevance, here in New York, across the nation and around the world. Undergraduate opportunities Undertaking research Research Honors Program Internships Undergraduate grants Graduate student grants Opportunities include Andrew W. Mellon Student Research Grants, Arthur Boller Research Fund, Kieckhefer Adirondack Fellowships and Grant Proposal Application Instructions Faculty research support Office of Sponsored Research Office of Research Development Biology Scholars Program Supporting undergraduate diversity in biological sciences More about the Biology Scholars Program Office of Research Development Assisting faculty at all levels in creating research Explore research development opportunities Spotlight Slider Previous Next Did you know? Explore some of the discoveries that have changed lives and industries. Press for additional information on Disease-resistant papaya Disease-resistant papaya In the 1990s, he developed the first-ever transgenic, disease-resistant papaya that effectively saved Hawaii’s $11 million papaya industry. Return to front of card Dennis Gonsalves, School of Integrative Plant Science (Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology) Press for additional information on Five-kingdom scheme Five-kingdom scheme He proposed the five-kingdom scheme of classification for organisms in 1969, adding three kingdoms – Monera (bacteria), Protista and fungi – to the previous two – animals and plants. Return to front of card Robert Whittaker, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Press for additional information on Nine plant patents Nine plant patents She holds nine U.S. plant patents: four sweet cherries, one tart cherry and four apple varieties, including SnapDragon™ and RubyFrost.™ Return to front of card Susan Brown, School of Integrative Plant Science (Horticulture) Press for additional information on First molecular maps First molecular maps He developed the first molecular maps of both rice and tomatoes. Return to front of card Steven D. Tanksley, School of Integrative Plant Science (Plant Breeding and Genetics) Press for additional information on Red wine benefits Red wine benefits He was first to discover that resveratrol in red wine is beneficial for human heart health. Return to front of card Leroy Creasy, School of Integrative Plant Science (Horticulture) Press for additional information on World’s first “gene gun” World’s first “gene gun” They developed the world’s first “gene gun,” a prototype of which is found in the National Museum of American History. Return to front of card John C. Sanford, Ed Wolf and Nelson Allen Latest news, discoveries and breakthroughs Explore the work we’re doing today and discover how it’s reshaping tomorrow. Has taxonomy terms (with depth) Article Type (field_article_type) CALS MagazineReportField NoteFutureCastMultimediaNewsSpotlight Event Type (field_event_type) ClassConferenceExhibitFairFestivalField DayLectureMeetingSeminarWebinarWorkshop News Details Higher dengue rates found near public transit in low-income areas In Medellin, Colombia, low-income residents who lived in close proximity to new public transit stations had increased rates of mosquito-transmitted dengue fever, according to a new study. Department of Entomology Entomology Global Development News May 24, 2022 Quick View Startup Roundup: Antithesis Foods, Guard Medical, C2i, Bactana Cornell startup Antithesis Foods and Bactana were awarded NSF small-business grants, as Guard Medical raises $11 million in Series B investments and C2i launches a disease test in Europe. Food Science Applied Economics Food News May 23, 2022 Quick View Students want some online learning features in ‘new normal’ While they value in-person interactions, undergraduate students want to keep some of the adaptations developed during online teaching, including online assignment submission and digital question answering, survey research finds. Office of Undergraduate Biology Neurobiology and Behavior Behavior View more news & stories We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information