Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Diversity & Inclusion Resources Equipping our community to inspire and facilitate honest, thoughtful dialogue around diversity and inclusion. Breadcrumb Home Diversity & Inclusion Resources Diversity & Inclusion Resources Supporting recent statements by our college dean and university president, the CALS Office for Diversity and Inclusion has compiled a list of resources for our community to inspire and facilitate honest, thoughtful dialogue around diversity and inclusion and to address the painful challenges we are facing as a nation. Community Resources Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell: A framework designed to continue the progress towards making Cornell a more diverse and inclusive environment: Reporting bias Diversity and Inclusion - faculty resources Diversity and Inclusion - staff resources Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity Diversity Council Resources Cornell Caring Community and mental health resources Cornell Caring Community: Find Cornell contacts for support with emotional, physical, social, financial and intellectual issues — including crisis resources. Detox Local: An extensive list of mental health and substance use resources specifically for the AAPI (American Asian and Pacific Islander) community. Live Another Day: 42 mental health and addiction recovery resources to support black college students. Cornell Faculty & Staff Assistance Program Cornell Faculty & Staff Assistance Program: Connect by email at fsap [at] cornell.edu or by calling (607) 255-2673. Access ENI Confidential Counseling Services Access ENI Confidential Counseling Services for Cornell faculty, staff and family members by calling 1-800-327-2255. Colleague Network Groups Colleague Network Groups: The university sponsors Colleague Network Groups as a way for traditionally underrepresented minorities and their allies to find support, both at Cornell and beyond. Current groups include: Men of Color Colleague Network Group Women of Color Colleague Network Group LGBTQ Colleague Network Group Disability Colleague Network Group Veterans Colleague Network Group Allyship resources Guidelines for Being Strong White Allies White Allyship 101:Resources to Get to Work “26 Ways to be in the Struggle Beyond the Streets” ihollaback.org: Virtual training as individuals or groups, including bystander intervention training, anti-harassment training and resilience training. Additional resources for faculty Understanding implicit bias: Resources for faculty shared by the Cornell University Graduate School. Office of Faculty Development and Diversity: Resources, training and support for deans, department chairs and individual faculty members to foster faculty development and diversity. Faculty Institute for Diversity: This two-day workshop offers an opportunity for an interdisciplinary peer-group of faculty to transform a course through the lens of diversity and inclusion. Visit their website to register for upcoming trainings. Fieldwork safety: Strategies to protect at-risk researchers when conducting fieldwork Additional resources for students Cornell Health Counseling Services LGBT Resource Center Women's Resource Center Identity Resources from Student and Campus Life Program Houses from Cornell Housing All-gender Restrooms – a campus map Student Disability Services – resources for accommodations Student Bias Assessment and Review Process – resources for bias reporting Fieldwork safety: Strategies to protect at-risk researchers when conducting fieldwork Local resources Tompkins County Diversity Consortium Ithaca Local Black Owned Businesses Geneva area DEI Resources Geneva Public Library Provides a variety of resources and services to the community (including translation services for those who speak Spanish). Family Counseling Services of the Finger Lakes Offers a variety of programming, including LGBTQ+ Program at Family Counseling Service of the Finger Lakes - Bilingual (English-Spanish) Family Services Geneva Human Rights Commission Geneva Police Review Board Navigation Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Further Reading Complete Guides Articles Books Social media Podcasts More Resource Guides Antiracist resource guide: Explore practical ways to understand, explain and solve seemingly intractable problems of racial inequity, white supremacy, police violence and injustice. Anti-racism resources for white people: A curated guide to resources, literature, organizations, podcasts, etc. Anti-Racist Allyship Starter Pack: A curated list of literature, places to donate and resources for staying safe at protests. Black Lives Matter Cornell University Library Guide: Information resources related to the Black Lives Matter movement and its founding. Racial and social equity resource guide from teach.com. Articles 75 Things White People Can Do for Racial Justice by Corinne Shutack Do Conversations About Race Belong in the Classroom? With an update from Beverly Tatum White People, Read This Before You Text Your Black Friends by Tomi Obaro White Women Need To Do Better by Shannon Keating One Question White People Should Stop Asking – What About Me? by Erin Okuno White People as Individuals by the Fakequity blog Social Justice on Social Media by Sidney Malia White When Silence Is Betrayal - What Must Be Said About The Killing of George Floyd by Seth Cohen The damaging psychological impact of constantly having to explain racism by Natalie Moris 100 Ways White People Can Make Life Less Frustrating for People of Color by Kesiena Boom Books "How to Be an Antiracist" by Ibram X. Kendi "What If? Short Stories to Spark Inclusion and Diversity Dialog" by Steve L. Robbins "Whistling Vivaldi: How Stereotypes Affect Us and What We Can Do" by Claude M Steele "Blind Spot: Hidden Biases of Good People" by Mahzarin R. Banaji and Anthony G. Greenwald "Stamped: Racism, Antiracism, and You" by Ibram X. Kendi and Jason Reynolds "So You Want To Talk About Race" by Ijeoma Oluo "Me and White Supremacy: Combat Racism, Change the World, and Become a Good Ancestor" by Layla Saad "Between the World and Me" by Ta-Nehisi Coates "White Fragility: Why It’s So Hard For White People To Talk About Racism" by Robin Deangelo "Why I’m No Longer Talking to White People about Race" by Reni Eddo-Lodge "Beloved" by Toni Morrison "The Other Wes Moore: one name, two fates (resources included within)" by Wes Moore "Just Mercy" by Bryan Stevenson Social media Ways Empaths Can Help Combat White Supremacy Journal Prompts to Help Explore White Privilege and Shame 7 Ways Non-Black People of Color Perpetuate Anti-Blackness 87 ways you can help Why You Need to Stop Saying 'All Lives Matter' #BlackintheIvory Podcasts Inclusive Excellence Podcast: Featuring topics related to diversity and inclusion in the workplace "Code Switch" from NPR "Intersectionality Matters" with Kimberlé Crenshaw "1619" from The New York Times More resources Decolonize your mind reading list Anti-Racist Reading List Implicit bias test 500 Women Scientists’ Action List PoC Shopping Guide Connect. Share. Build change with us. Building a diverse and inclusive community is a group effort. Share your ideas with the CALS Office for Diversity and Inclusion Contact the CALS Diversity & Inclusion Committee Explore Belonging at Cornell Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information