Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Entomology and Plant Pathology Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About Alumni and Giving International Programs News Seminars Contact Us Students Graduate Undergraduate Courses Career Opportunities People Faculty Staff Postdocs, Research and Extension Assistants Research Associates Graduate Students Research Extension Facilities NCSU Insect Collection Larry F. Grand Mycological Herbarium Center for Integrated Fungal Research Micropropagation and Repository Unit Insect Transgenesis Facility Structural Pest Management Training Honey Bee Queen and Disease Clinic Plant Disease and Insect Clinic Employee Portal Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About Students People Research Extension Facilities Employee Portal Full Site Navigation About Alumni and Giving International Programs News Seminars Contact Us Students Graduate Undergraduate Courses Career Opportunities People Faculty Staff Postdocs, Research and Extension Assistants Research Associates Graduate Students Facilities NCSU Insect Collection Larry F. Grand Mycological Herbarium Center for Integrated Fungal Research Micropropagation and Repository Unit Insect Transgenesis Facility Structural Pest Management Training Honey Bee Queen and Disease Clinic Plant Disease and Insect Clinic Protecting Plants, Animals and People We work to diminish the damage done by insect pests and plant diseases — and care for the environment. Controlling, Curing, Cultivating Insects and microbes can take a bite out of farmers’ yields and threaten urban environments, yet they also bring surprising benefits. We apply cutting-edge science to harness the good while minimizing the bad. Our undergraduate and graduate students get the hands-on entomology and plant pathology preparation they need for challenging careers in industry, government or academia. Farmers and consumers alike benefit from our research and extension programs that solve real-world problems related to plant diseases and insects. Explore Entomology and Plant Pathology Department News More News May 12, 2022 Sugar Aversion Hampers Cockroach Coupling How does a cockroach’s aversion to sugar turn into an aversion to mating? NC State researchers discover the mechanism behind this behavior. Read More Apr 29, 2022 Laurie Hamon: Uncovering Pollination Secrets of the Venus Flytrap A chance opportunity to work with the Venus flytrap became a turning point for Laurie Hamon’s doctoral journey, and the focus of her dissertation for a Ph.D. in entomology and biology. Read More Apr 18, 2022 CALS Names New Entomology and Plant Pathology Department Head After a national search, Carolyn Young will be the next department head for the Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology. Read More DEPP Diversity Statement The Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology (DEPP) is dedicated to providing education, research, extension, and professional development for all of its students, staff, faculty, and other stakeholders. DEPP acknowledges and values all dimensions of diversity. We welcome, support, and encourage the participation of all individuals regardless of age, gender, gender identity, race, cultural background, religion, physical ability, sexual orientation, professional status, geographic location, and all other characteristics that make people unique. Members of DEPP will actively promote inclusion, recruitment, and retention in every aspect of our department and activities – including but not limited to student training, leadership, committees, and staff. We will strive for a culture built on mentorship, encouragement, tolerance, and mutual respect. Members of DEPP are committed to proactively rejecting, denouncing, and intervening whenever prejudice, stereotyping, or intolerance are encountered. Entomology and Plant Pathology Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology NC State University Campus Box 7613 Raleigh, NC 27695-7613 NC State is an equal opportunity institution. Department Intranet Families First Coronavirus Response Act News Diversity Accessibility Copyright Emergency Login Alumni and Giving Gardner Hall Thomas Hall © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy