Skip to main content Cornell Cooperative Extension is a collaboration between The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and The College of Human Ecology. Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Main navigation Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices About People News & Stories Extension Out Loud Podcast Navigation Main mobile navigation Our Work Our Work Overview Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Join Us Overview Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices Local Offices Overview About About Overview People News & Stories News & Stories Overview Extension Out Loud Podcast Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Join Us Transform and grow from the ground up. Breadcrumb Home CCE Cornell Cooperative Extension (CCE) partners with local, state and federal government agencies, and is supported by the national Land-Grant system and Cornell University. In fulfillment of Cornell’s Land-Grant mission, faculty and staff—primarily from the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) and the College of Human Ecology—collaborate with extension associates, agriculture specialists, CCE educators and staff, local partners and volunteers across New York state to engage citizens and empower communities to transform and grow from the ground up. The resulting education system is responsive, nimble, research-based and locally-rooted. Extension educators develop programming that collects information and experience from their own communities to inform Cornell research and program development. Such a dynamic organization would not be possible without over 1,500 dedicated staff, 27,000 volunteers and many partnerships that power the CCE system. Apply for a job with CCE CCE employment opportunities are available throughout New York state and on the Cornell University campus in Ithaca, New York. Apply for the CCE Summer Internship Program From research to educational outreach, interns are involved in a wide spectrum of activities throughout New York state. Browse the Course Catalogue Online and on-demand learning opportunities by Cornell Cooperative Extension are available in the CCE Course Catalogue. Join or form a Program Work Team Faculty and staff, extension educators, and external stakeholders collaborate to identify issues, study needs and create educational materials in specific extension areas. Join Us Volunteer in your community Each year, 27,000 individuals significantly extend the reach of Cornell Cooperative Extension  around New York state, contributing over one million hours.  CCE volunteers work in many capacities, from  hands-on assistance in educational programs to  serving in advisory roles at the local and state levels. Contact your local office for more information on volunteering with CCE Our work Local offices About Innovation, Action, Impact. Local Offices About CCE CCE News and Stories Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Get Connected CCE Directory Contact Us Jobs with CCE Summer Internships Work Teams Follow Us Facebook Youtube Channel Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Footer CCE CCE Privacy Policy CCE Staff Site Equal Opportunity Web Accessibility