Skip to main content College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Menu Close About Welcome to CALS News Farms, Food and You CALS Magazine Events Diversity and Inclusion International Programs CALS is Hiring Departments Students Paths to CALS Academics Distance Education Student Success Programs CALS Scholarships CALS Career Services Advising Nominate a Student Research Research Facilities Partnerships Field Days Research Resources Extension Homegrown Extension Website Initiatives Access Initiative N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative N.C. Food Animal Initiative N.C. Food Innovation Lab CALS Leadership Office Systems Initiative Alumni and Giving Ways to Give Foundations CALS Alumni and Friends Give Now About About Welcome to CALS News Farms, Food and You CALS Magazine Events Diversity and Inclusion International Programs CALS is Hiring Departments Departments Students Students Paths to CALS Academics Distance Education Student Success Programs CALS Scholarships CALS Career Services Advising Nominate a Student Research Research Research Facilities Partnerships Field Days Research Resources Extension Extension Homegrown Extension Website Initiatives Initiatives Access Initiative N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative N.C. Food Animal Initiative N.C. Food Innovation Lab CALS Leadership Office Systems Initiative Alumni and Giving Alumni and Giving Ways to Give Foundations CALS Alumni and Friends Give Now Diversity and Inclusion Fostering an environment of inclusion and equity for every member of the CALS community. Inclusion. Equity. Respect. The CALS Office of Diversity and Inclusion builds an environment where every student, faculty and staff member can reach his or her full potential. See NC State’s definition of diversity and how diversity benefits everyone. our programs Signature Programs Our programs focus on maintaining an inclusive, diverse environment at CALS. Explore our programs Student Support We recruit and retain well-qualified students from untapped segments of the population. Learn how we support our students Faculty and Staff Support Our programs focus on maintaining an inclusive, diverse environment for CALS faculty and staff. Explore our programs for faculty and staff Partner Collaborations Through our partnerships, we help current students from underrepresented groups succeed. Partner with us Diversity Resources Many organizations offer scholarship, research and professional development opportunities. Read more Uncomfortable Conversations About Race View the FAQ on our sessions about racism and injustice. Read and submit a question Diversity is what we say. Inclusion is what we do. Diversity is about more than just one element of a person’s identity like race, gender or ethnicity. People are members of multiple communities simultaneously and live varied layered identities. At the intersection of these identities is a unique individual that we welcome, respect and celebrate. Our Team Dr. Alex Graves is the director of CALS ODI, and Ms. Latosha Bradley is the program manager. CALS Diversity Council Consisting of administrators and faculty members, the council develops strategies to recruit and retain students, faculty and staff from historically underrepresented groups. Signature Events Opening Doors Opening Doors is a three-day, overnight retreat that deepens participants’ awareness of diversity and enhances their ability to create inclusive organizations. Learn More Conversations That Matter Conversations that Matter is a bi-monthly series that enhances diversity awareness and builds cultural competencies for faculty, staff and students in CALS as well as university-wide. Learn More CAALS 3-D Creating Awareness of Agriculture and Life Sciences Disciplines, Degree Programs and Discoveries (CAALS) is a week-long summer camp targeting the most underrepresented minority groups in the CALS student population: African-American, Latinx and Native American males. Learn More Support Diversity and Inclusion at CALS Please consider making a gift to the CALS Diversity and Inclusion Fund to support our equity and inclusivity programs. Your contribution will help ensure all members of the CALS community are valued and engaged. Make a Gift cals diversity and inclusion news More Diversity and Inclusion News In Response to the Shootings in Buffalo This week’s tragedy in Buffalo, New York, serves as a disturbing reminder of the continued need to confront hate and injustice. CALS remains committed to condemning and combating inequality, hate and racism in all forms. How TJ Jones Transformed from Naval Cook to Future Turfgrass Manager Set to graduate in December 2022, TJ Jones’ journey reveals a hopeful message that following your inner compass can lead to a greater sense of purpose and fulfillment. AGI Student Max Jeffers Forges His Pathway at CALS Max Jeffers, a Durham, NC, native with deep roots in the Pearsontown neighborhood, is earning an associate’s degree in general agriculture through AGI. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Home Campus Box 7601 NC State University Campus Raleigh, NC 27695-7601 NC State is an equal opportunity institution. Campus Map Academics Departments Research Extension International Programs Communications News CALS Employee Portal Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.