Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Education Degrees & Programs Animal Science Major & Minor Animal Science Major & Minor Make a meaningful impact through animal science Spark discoveries and disseminate new knowledge about the biology and management of domestic animals and put our knowledge to work to make a positive impact in the world. Animal Science offers undergraduate and graduate programs on the biology and management of food, laboratory and companion animal species. Our goals are to discover and develop new techniques and information to benefit animals, agriculture and human health. The department’s faculty members, many internationally recognized, have diverse interests in animal management, breeding, genetics, physiology, nutrition, growth biology and microbiology. Students are actively tackling the issues facing animal industries today. Major Minor Transfer BS/DVM Accelerated Pathway Major in Animal Science Bachelor of Science (B.S.) The Animal Science major prepares students for study in veterinary medicine or careers in animal production, biotechnology and conservation and has been nationally recognized for its work in animal breeding and genetics, nutrition, physiology, growth, behavior and management. Join students and professors who go beyond the classroom to explore ideas and tackle some of the complex challenges of our times. You’ll be prepared to find positions immediately upon graduation, or enter a graduate or professional school to obtain an advanced degree. Program Overview The animal sciences major offers an opportunity to apply animal biology, biochemistry, molecular biology and other life sciences to the study of animal breeding and genetics, nutrition, physiology, growth, behavior and management. The curriculum is flexible and can be applied to a great variety of species, from farm animals and pets to laboratory animals and even some exotics. Students are encouraged, with the help of a faculty advisor, to plan an individual curriculum that suits their interests and career goals. Admissions Requirements CALS seeks students who maintain a rigorous high school curriculum and demonstrate an outstanding record of academic achievement. Admissions requirements include: 4 Units of English 4 Units of Mathematics (including pre-calculus, calculus recommended) 3 Units of Science (biology, chemistry and physics recommended) Also recommended: statistics Agriculture courses are strongly encouraged Major Requirements Foundational Competency ANSC 1101 - Contemporary Perspective in Animal Science (1 credit) BIOAP 1100 - Domestic Animal Biology (4 credits) ANSC 2120 - Animal Nutrition (4 credits) ANSC 2210 - Principles of Animal Genetics (4 credits) ANSC 2400 - Biology of Reproduction (3 credits) Fundamentals of Animal Management One of the following courses: ANSC 2500 - Dairy Cattle Principles (3 credits) ANSC 2650 - Equine Biology and Management (3 credits) ANSC 3600 - Beef Cattle (3 credits - offered in even- numbered years only) ANSC 3800 - Sheep (3 credits - offered in odd- numbered years only) ANSC 3850 - Dairy Sheep Management (3 credits) Professional Values and Responsibility ANSC 1105 - Careers in Animal Science (1 credit) As well as one of the following courses: ANSC 3100 - Introduction to Animal Welfare (2 credits) ANSC 4140 - Ethics and Animal Science (2 credits) ePortfolio All students will design an ePortfolio through Digication showcasing their learning experience and highlighting plans as they progress through the Animal Science major. The ePortfolios need to be updated and presented to Faculty advisors at the end of each semester. A primer for launching ePortfolios will be part of ANSC 1105. Any questions about ePortfolio should be directed to the Undergraduate Program Coordinator, Lindsay Glasner (lig27 [at] cornell.edu). Concentrations Students must select one of the following concentrations. View the course requirements for each concentration by clicking on the links below. Concentrations should be chosen no later than Junior year. Integrative Physiology and Nutrition Pre-Veterinary Medicine Dairy Management Applied Animal Biology and Interdisciplinary Studies Note: If you are a Pre-Vet, it does NOT mean that you have to take the Pre-Vet concentration. You can take any of the above concentrations, still apply to vet school, and keep your options open. However each vet school has its own admission requirements. You are responsible to ensure you take all required courses for the vet schools you wish to apply to. Sample Classes ANSC 2210 – Principles of Animal Genetics Examination of basic genetic principles and their application to the improvement of domestic animals, with emphasis on the effects of selection on animal populations and an introduction to the application of molecular techniques to animal improvement. ANSC 3510 – Dairy Herd Management Application of scientific principles to practical herd management with components of reproduction, milking, housing, records and production economics. Laboratories emphasize practical applications, analyses of alternatives, decision-making, field trips and discussion. ANSC 3700 – Immunology in Animal Health and Disease Discuss concepts in immunology, with a focus on those that are important to domestic animal health and disease prevention. Immunological principles applied to understand current literature, research, and practices. Courses and Academic Opportunities Students specializing in animal science have the opportunity, with the help of their advisors, to develop a curriculum that fulfills individual interests and allows a broad selection of courses. For example, a student interested in a production-oriented career might take courses in agronomy, farm management, agricultural engineering and economics to complement their animal science courses. On the other hand, students with a more basic interest in animal biology might take organic chemistry, biochemistry, microbiology and other courses in the biological and physical sciences. While one student may be captivated by the molecular biology of the developing embryo, a classmate may be equally fascinated by the nutrition in the domestic cat or by the mathematics of genetic selection in the horse. No two students need to have identical programs. Cornell’s Animal Science major also offers students the opportunity to: Graduate with distinction in research Receive top-notch training for careers in the dairy industry through the Dairy Fellows Program Additional Opportunities All students are encouraged to take advantage of one or more opportunities for internships, a semester abroad, independent research or honors thesis research, as appropriate. For research or the Honor's Program in Research, consult with your advisor. Your advisor can help you identify possible internship opportunities and CALS has an office available to assist you. Resources: Finding an Internship, Summer Job, or Full-time Job CALS International Opportunities for Undergraduates Cornell Abroad - the Office of Global Learning at Cornell University Your Advisor Each student in the animal science major is assigned a faculty advisor. Your advisor plays several roles: guiding you through the requirements of the major and the College distribution requirements; helping you to clarify your educational and career goals; suggesting courses to help you meet your particular educational interests and career goals; and serving as a source of information about opportunities and services available to you through the College and University (e.g., study abroad, internships, career counseling, health and psychological services). If you make the effort to get to know your advisor, she or he also may serve as a reference for you for internships, jobs, or graduate school. Graduate Outcomes Student at Cornell’s College of Veterinary Medicine Licensed Veterinary Technician Biotechnologist Animal genetic counselor Livestock/dairy manager Agriculture Research Analyst Dairy Farm Manager Dairy Cattle Nutrition Consultant Business Analyst Minor in Animal Science The Animal Science minor offers a great opportunity for any undergraduate student to pursue their interests in the Animal Science field in an accessible manor. Students declaring a minor in Animal Science must declare the minor prior to graduating. Requirements The minor is satisfied by completing at least 15 credit hours of Animal Science courses. Students completing the Animal Science minor assemble courses, or demonstrate having the equivalent from elsewhere, that include basic and applied biology of animals (i.e. anatomy, physiology, nutrition, genetics) along with a selection of intermediate or advanced offerings from the Animal Science curriculum. Please consult with the Undergraduate Program Coordinator, lig27 [at] cornell.edu (Lindsay Glasner), if you are interested. Transfer Student Admissions Prepare for study in veterinary medicine or careers in animal production, biotechnology and conservation, in a program that has been nationally recognized in animal breeding and genetics, nutrition, physiology, growth, behavior and management. Academic Record Required: Strong academic record at the college level. Competitive applicants have at least a 3.0 (B) average. CALS Required Coursework should be completed or in-progress with a “B” or better before applying. The most competitive applicants are full-time students who have met the GPA and course requirements. For Transfers Entering as Sophomores (Or transfers with two full-time college semesters of study (post-high school) completed or in progress at time of application): Required: Two College Writing/English Composition courses or one writing/composition and Public Speaking One full year of Introductory Biology with labs Students interested in pursuing a Pre-Vet concentration are also required to take General (Inorganic) Chemistry I & II with labs Strongly encouraged (but not required): Statistics or Calculus For Transfers Entering as Juniors (Or transfers with four full-time college semesters of study (post-high school) completed or in progress at time of application). Required: Two College Writing/English Composition courses or one writing/composition and Public Speaking One full academic year of Introductory Biology with labs General (Inorganic) Chemistry I & II with labs (dairy management - only General (Inorganic) Chemistry I) Strongly Encouraged (Not Required): Statistics or Calculus Courses that meet the CALS social science and humanities requirements in Cultural Analysis, Historical Analysis, Knowledge, Cognition and Moral Reasoning, Literature and the Arts, Social and Behavioral Analysis and Foreign Language. Note: Students interested in pursuing a PreVet concentration are strongly encouraged to complete Organic Chemistry I & II with one semester of lab or Physics I & II with labs. BS/DVM Accelerated Pathway 7-year combined BS/DVM pathway is a joint program between the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and the College of Veterinary Medicine at Cornell. Details for applying to the pathway can be found on the College of Veterinary Medicine website. Below are curriculum modifications for students accepted into the BS/DVM pathway. There are no modifications to core coursework. There are also no changes to Appendix I if you are a sophomore transfer. Concentration coursework Students are eligible to pick one of the 4 concentrations. Within each concentration, students have flexibility to design their course plan selecting categories and courses after discussion with their advisors. Irrespective of the concentration selected and the flexibility provided, students will be held to the following requirement: Animal Physiology and Nutrition Two of the following if completing Biology requisites* at Cornell (or) Three of the following if completing Biology requisites* with AP Bio or other transfer credits ANSC 4410 Nutritional Physiology and Biochemistry 3 ANSC 3300 Fish Physiology (cross-listed BIOAP) 3 ANSC 3400 Comparative Mammalian Reproduction 2 ANSC 3410 Biology of the Mammary Gland in Health and Disease (cross-listed BIOAP) 2 (offered in even- numbered years only) ANSC 4270 Fundamentals of Endocrinology (cross-listed BIOAP) 3 ANSC 3920 Mechanisms of Animal Growth and Development 2 (offered in odd- numbered years only) * Refers to courses under “Biology requisites” category in the Pre-veterinary medicine concentration. Apply More about Animal Science Concentrations Integrative Physiology and Nutrition Pre-Veterinary Medicine Dairy Management Applied Animal Biology and Interdisciplinary Studies Back to list of careers Integrative Physiology and Nutrition Builds a foundation of animal physiology and nutrition along with exploring several advanced elective courses. This is a great concentration for students interested in a research career and/or seeking a competitive edge in future veterinary training. Learn more about the Integrative Physiology and Nutrition concentration Back to list of careers Pre-Veterinary Medicine Serves the dual purpose of providing a foundation in animal physiology and fulfilling prerequisites for veterinary schools, and other health professions. Learn more about the Pre-Veterinary Medicine concentration Back to list of careers Dairy Management Focuses on the science, management and business skills needed to be successful in the dairy industry and the larger agricultural business environment. Learn more about the Dairy Management concentration Back to list of careers Applied Animal Biology and Interdisciplinary Studies Provides a breadth of nutrition, physiology and management while allowing the opportunity to explore electives. Learn more about the Applied Animal Biology and Interdisciplinary Studies concentration Explore your opportunities A CALS education goes beyond the classroom and gives students frequent opportunities to apply what they learn in real-world settings. Additional Programs Undergraduate Honors Program Dairy Fellows Program Animal Science Graduate Programs Internship & Job Opportunities Extension & Outreach Domestic Animal Management Dairy Management Community Outreach Youth Outreach Department Resources Faculty & Experts Research (Animal Science) News & Events Clubs & Organizations We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information