Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Image Caption Button Sheep grazing in Cascadilla Community Solar Farm. Photo by Nicole Rossi Spotlight Solar grazing project combines renewable energy and agriculture June 1, 2022 | By Daniella Garcia Almeida '25 Share Cornell Atkinson Cornell Cooperative Extension Animal Science Department of Entomology School of Integrative Plant Science Soil and Crop Sciences Section Animals Ecosystems Plants Soil Solar energy developers and farmers need land to operate, and a Cornell research project aims to demonstrate how co-locating solar arrays on farmland can be an environmentally friendly way to benefit both the renewable energy and agriculture industries. Play Cornell Solar grazing project combines renewable energy and agriculture Join Niko Kochendoerfer as she gives a tour of the solar grazing project at the Cascadilla Community Solar Farm. In 2019 the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act set a goal to reach 70% renewable energy in New York by 2030; to meet that goal, 21.6 GW of utility scale solar must be installed, potentially using up to 129,600 acres of land. A 2021 Cornell report projects that the New York sheep industry could grow significantly alongside the renewable energy industry if many sites are grazed. Motivated by the push from New York state toward renewable energy, a transdisciplinary team at Cornell launched the Solar Grazing Project to investigate optimal sheep grazing management around ground-mounted solar arrays to avoid panel shading. Started in 2019 by postdoctoral research fellow Niko Kochendoerfer and Mike Thonney, late professor and director of graduate studies in Cornell CALS Department of Animal Science, the project taps experts in animal science, soil carbon sequestration, vegetation biodiversity and pollinator habitats to take a holistic view of the ecosystem. “Mike and I began hypothesizing sheep grazing and ideal management strategies,” said Kochendoerfer. “How many sheep per acre can a solar site pasture support? How many sheep do we need to successfully manage vegetation but also to provide ecosystem benefits like thriving pollinator habitat and optimized soil carbon sequestration?” The 54-acre research site at the Cascadilla Community Solar Farm adjacent to campus is divided into five fenced arrays that serve as experimental blocks. Within each block, six different sheep grazing densities (mowed control, four, eight, 12, 16 and 20 sheep per acre) are tested to determine sheep management strategy for optimized animal welfare and production, plant biodiversity, pollinator habitat and soil carbon accrual. Preliminary research results Kochendoerfer tracks animal health data and flock productivity, as well as forage quantity and quality on site, to inform ideal vegetation management strategies from a sheep farmer’s perspective. Although the study is ongoing, Kochendoerfer has determined that sheep, if grazed at appropriate stocking densities, can effectively manage the vegetation in solar arrays, not allowing plants to grow to heights that would interfere with sunlight reception by the solar panels. “Benefits for the sheep, such as quantities of high-quality forage, and optimally managed vegetation from a solar developer perspective are not mutually exclusive, profiting both industries,” said Kochendoerfer. “Sheep flocks also benefit from the shade provided by the panels in solar arrays, so animal welfare, flock health and productivity are high.” Antonio DiTommaso, professor of weed science and chair of the Soil and Crop Sciences Section in the School of Integrative Plant Science evaluates how the resident vegetation on the solar array site might provide ecosystem services through the increased presence of pollinators and other beneficial insects. DiTommaso will also determine how the resident vegetation is impacted by the density and frequency of sheep grazing and whether plant species diversity is affected. “So far, I am encouraged by the number and diversity of plant species present on the site despite two years of sheep grazing,” said DiTommaso. “Interestingly, several locally adapted plant species that were not present at the start of the project are now found on the site.” Image Caption Button Sheep in solar field. Photo by Nicole Rossi Image Caption Button Bee on a flower in the Cascadilla Community Solar Farm. Photo by Steven Wang Image Caption Button Cascadilla Community Solar Farm. Photo by Steven Wang Entomologist Scott McArt, assistant professor of pollinator health, is interested in understanding whether sheep grazing can benefit pollinator communities by providing more floral resources. According to McArt, the results of the study are promising and suggest that intermediate levels of grazing could, indeed, increase numbers of flowers and bees. “If grazing sheep on solar sites can increase foraging resources for bees, the increase of solar sites in New York is a huge opportunity to simultaneously promote agriculture (sheep), conservation (pollinator habitat) and renewable energy (solar),” McArt said. “With targeted research on this topic, I’m hopeful we can make data-driven recommendations to bear out this tantalizing win-win-win scenario.” Soil organic carbon levels are one of the project’s variables and are best examined in the long term, according to Johannes Lehmann, the Liberty Hyde Bailey Professor in the School of Integrative Plant Science Soil and Crop Sciences Section. Therefore, Lehmann and his team are focusing on mechanistic research, studying the underlying changes and trends in soil carbon, rather than just the results. “In order to examine the relationship between animal husbandry and soil organic carbon, this experiment would need to go on for almost 10 years,” Lehmann said. “Interdisciplinary projects like this one demand an institutional commitment to pursuing long-term results and expanding the reach of the project.” Raising awareness The researchers believe the Solar Grazing Project will have implications for farmers and solar developers nationwide. If clear environmental and ecosystem benefits can be demonstrated, developers could decide to use sheep to control vegetation at their solar projects, and farmers could see increased revenue by managing vegetation in solar arrays while meeting sustainability goals. The research team has begun publishing preliminary results from this trial and are eager to compare results year after year. Communicating the outreach findings is a key component of the project. The research team works closely with the Cornell Cooperative Extension Community and Energy Work Team, whose mission is to provide education about energy consumption, conservation, production and distribution in the state. Workshops and presentations at extension events help communicate with farmers and support them in adapting to a changing market. Collaborations with such industry associations as the American Solar Grazing Association will allow for nationwide dissemination of findings. Funding for the Solar Grazing Project began in 2019, with a two-year Academic Venture Fund grant from the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability and an Engaged Cornell Academic Venture Fund Supplemental Grant. A short, proof-of-concept grazing trial in 2019 was followed by the first full grazing season in 2020. Niko Kochendoerfer and Mike Thonney grew the project to include five labs across the Department of Animal Science, the School of Integrative Plant Science, the Department of Entomology and universities beyond Cornell; and several undergraduate and graduate students and interns participate in the transdisciplinary research work. In 2021, Kochendoerfer received a USDA Postdoctoral Fellowship to continue data collection for three seasons. Daniella Garcia Almeida ’25 is a physics major in the College of Arts and Sciences and a student writer for Cornell CALS Department of Animal Science. Meet the project experts Niko Kochendoerfer Postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Animal Science, Kochendoerfer serves as the project lead and tracks all animal health data and flock productivity. Full bio Antonio DiTommaso Professor of weed science and chair of the Soil and Crop Sciences Section in the School of Integrative Plant Science, DiTommaso evaluates the resident vegetation on the solar array site and how it is impacted by grazing. Full bio Johannes Lehmann Liberty Hyde Bailey Professor in the School of Integrative Plant Science Soil and Crop Sciences Section, Lehmann focuses on soil health and fertility and aids with experimental design. Full bio Scott McArt Assistant professor of entomology, McArt is investigating whether sheep grazing can benefit pollinator communities by providing more floral resources. Full bio John Losey Professor of entomology, Losey evaluates the balance between agricultural benefits and the ecosystem services that local wildlife, such as bees, provide. Full bio Scott Morris Research technician in the DiTommaso Weed Ecology and Management laboratory, Morris oversees the vegetation surveys for the project, including identifying plants on the research site and recording important growth and phenological information. Full bio Learn more about solar grazing at Cornell Electric sheep: Grazing in arrays supports economy, climate As industrial-sized solar installations pop up throughout New York state, residents fear the loss of agricultural land. Lexie Hain ’99 has a simple solution: sheep. Read the full article Image Caption Button A herd of sheep graze under an industrial-scale solar array in Newfield, New York. Photo by Lindsay France/Cornell University New solar farm extends ‘art of the possible’ With three new solar farms, Cornell skims energy from the sun Bees, sheep, crops: Solar developers tout multiple benefits Keep Exploring News May 31, 2022 Quick View Higher dengue rates found near public transit in low-income areas In Medellin, Colombia, low-income residents who lived in close proximity to new public transit stations had increased rates of mosquito-transmitted dengue fever, according to a new study. Department of Entomology Entomology Global Development News May 24, 2022 Quick View Three students win Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards Matthew Borinshteyn ’25, Jennifer Lee ’23 and Avery MacLean ’22 received the 2022 Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards in recognition of their significant involvement in community service. Agriculture Sciences Major Natural Resources and the Environment School of Integrative Plant Science Explore All Stories We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information