Skip to main content College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Menu Close About Welcome to CALS News Farms, Food and You CALS Magazine Events Diversity and Inclusion International Programs CALS is Hiring Departments Students Paths to CALS Academics Distance Education Student Success Programs CALS Scholarships CALS Career Services Advising Nominate a Student Research Research Facilities Partnerships Field Days Research Resources Extension Homegrown Extension Website Initiatives Access Initiative N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative N.C. Food Animal Initiative N.C. Food Innovation Lab CALS Leadership Office Systems Initiative Alumni and Giving Ways to Give Foundations CALS Alumni and Friends Give Now About About Welcome to CALS News Farms, Food and You CALS Magazine Events Diversity and Inclusion International Programs CALS is Hiring Departments Departments Students Students Paths to CALS Academics Distance Education Student Success Programs CALS Scholarships CALS Career Services Advising Nominate a Student Research Research Research Facilities Partnerships Field Days Research Resources Extension Extension Homegrown Extension Website Initiatives Initiatives Access Initiative N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative N.C. Food Animal Initiative N.C. Food Innovation Lab CALS Leadership Office Systems Initiative Alumni and Giving Alumni and Giving Ways to Give Foundations CALS Alumni and Friends Give Now A Space for All James Chester "J.C." Raulston is remembered for his pioneering efforts to cultivate a welcoming space for LGBTQ professionals in horticulture. Learn about his legacy $1.5B Our agricultural research has a massive economic impact on rural North Carolina. 27-to-1 ROI: NC State Extension’s work helps fuel the N.C. economy by delivering solutions directly into the hands of the state’s citizens. 95% Nearly all CALS students with high-need degrees graduate with jobs that have salaries well above the state’s median income. HOMEGROWN Starting a Backyard Chicken Flock Whether you’re in it for the eggs, companionship or simply wanting to try something new, having a backyard chicken flock can be a uniquely rewarding experience. It also poses its own unique challenges. Learn how Podcast: Farms, Food and You May 18, 2022 Keep Those Bee Hotels Buzzing March 16, 2022 The (Turf)grass is Always Greener on the Other Side February 16, 2022 Carolina Gold Rice Rush News All News Picking the Right Flowers for a Summer Wedding Melinda Knuth, an assistant professor in the Department of Horticultural Science and a professionally certified floral designer, offers insight on how to make the largest impact with wedding florals, regardless of a couple’s budget. Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Longtime CALS professor Bob Franks looks forward to serving as the interim department head for Applied Ecology while the college and department search for a permanent department head. A Fruitful and Balanced Industry Mark Hoffmann, an assistant professor and Extension small fruits specialist, gives an inside look at the North Carolina wine industry and the local vineyards behind NC State’s Hallowed Places Collection. CALS in the News Many female cockroaches have lost their love of sugar, which changes how they make the next generation of insects. NC State researchers discuss the mechanism behind this newly discovered behavior in the New York Times. Learn about cockroach evolution Featured Videos Plant Sciences Building Dedication Day On April 12, 2022, the Plant Sciences Building on NC State University’s Centennial Campus opened to launch the N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative. Watch now Farm Animal Days 2022 Farm Animal Days is a family-fun event hosted by NC State that gives children a chance to see and touch farm animals while learning about agriculture. Watch now A Global Perspective To meet global challenges in agriculture and life sciences, we need to develop and draw on the world’s brightest minds. That’s why CALS forms international partnerships with scientists, companies and countries around the world, to work together and feed a growing population. Discover the fall issue Upcoming Events All Events May 31 Tuesday2:00 PM BeeMORE Summer Research Student-Mentor Welcome Jun 01 Wednesday Agricultural Institute Fall Admission Application Deadline Jun 01 Wednesday Crop and Soil Sciences Feeds the Pack CALS Weekly Sign up for our newsletter and get the latest news and updates from CALS straight to your inbox every Thursday. Email Start Your Application Δ Connect with us on social Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram LinkedIn LinkedIn YouTube YouTube College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Home Campus Box 7601 NC State University Campus Raleigh, NC 27695-7601 NC State is an equal opportunity institution. Campus Map Academics Departments Research Extension International Programs Communications News CALS Employee Portal Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.