Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Our Research Impact Purpose-driven pioneers Breadcrumb Home Research Our Research Impact Our Research Impact As purpose-driven pioneers, CALS scientists observe the world through a unique lens — unraveling complex challenges through artful inquiry and methodical exploration. Fundamental to applied, this is research for the real world. This is research that matters. These are research firsts that have lasting impact. From rural communities to the royal family, our researchers get recognized for their life-changing work. Discover why. Navigation Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Press for additional information on By the Way By the Way His apple-related fame landed him on a “Jeopardy!” question, under the above category, which read: “Roger Way tasted 200 of these a day, helping him develop the Empire and Jonagold types.” Return to front of card What are apples, Alex? Press for additional information on 'Jumping Genes' 'Jumping Genes' In 1983, Barbara McClintock, M.S. ’25, Ph.D. ’27, won the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for work she had done in the 1940s and '50s on mobile genetic elements. Return to front of card She was the first woman to be the sole winner of the award, and has also been featured on a U.S. postage stamp. Press for additional information on Growing the Greenhouse Industry Growing the Greenhouse Industry In the early 1960s, Ray Sheldrake and James W. Boodley developed the Cornell Peat-Lite Mixes which formed the basis for modern potting soil mixes. Return to front of card Now known simply as Cornell Mix, it transformed the greenhouse industry by reducing plant losses due to diseases, nutrient deficiency and insects by 80%. Communication In first look at Facebook data, researchers to track patterns of fake news A CALS researcher is collaborating on an unprecedented study examining Facebook data to look for patterns in “problematic sharing” to determine whether this activity spikes around elections or terrorist attacks. Dig into the data Food Science Cornell scientists discover new antibiotic resistance gene While sifting through the bacterial genome of salmonella, Cornell food scientists discovered mcr-9, a stealthy jumping gene so diabolical that it resists one of the world’s few last-resort antibiotics. Resistance is futile Entomology Study challenges widely held assumption of bee evolution Rewriting the commonly-cited theory about bee evolution and the cause behind an explosion in diversity some 120 million years ago. Discover what the buzz is about Biological & Environmental Engineering Research explains diabetics’ increased metastatic cancer risk Sugar glycation was shown to stiffen and alter the architecture of tissue and promote breast tumor cell movement, pointing to a possible mechanical link between diabetes and metastatic cancer. Explore the link Natural Resources Center for Conservation Social Sciences looks at human role in nature In the 1970s, CALS pioneered the concept that wildlife professionals can more effectively manage species and social-ecological systems by considering humanity's role, founding the first center of its kind to partner with policymakers. Explore the human dimensions Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Oceanic plastic trash conveys disease to coral reefs An international research group led by Cornell University found that plastic trash—ubiquitous throughout the world’s oceans—intensifies disease for coral and adds to reef peril. Dive on in to learn more Spotlight Slider Previous Next 14 new beetle species James Liebherr discovered the new beetle species in Tahiti, putting him at having discovered about half of the 400 total known Mecyclothorax species. 90 Day shelf life CALS food scientists naturally increased the shelf life of cottage cheese from 21 days to 50-90 days. More cottage cheese is made in New York than any other state. #1 Top Tater for Potato Chips The Lamoka variety fries to a light color, maintains its quality in storage, and is also resistant to pests and disease. Press for additional information on No Matter How You Slice It No Matter How You Slice It Almost all slicing cucumbers in the U.S. derive their disease resistance from plants Henry Munger bred. Return to front of card He is also responsible for all of the commercial varieties of carrots sold in the U.S. Press for additional information on A Crystalizing Concept A Crystalizing Concept In 1926, James B. "Jackbean" Sumner was the first to isolate an enzyme called urease. Return to front of card His work proved that all enzymes are proteins, a controversial premise at the time. Press for additional information on Orange You Glad? Orange You Glad? Michael Dickson developed the orange cauliflower, a variety high in beta carotene, which is used by the human body to make the essential nutrient vitamin A. Return to front of card Born in London, April 2, 1932, Dickson spent the first three years of his life in Egypt, where his father, Hugh Dickson, was a botanist working on King Tut’s tomb. Laureates, Fellows & Award Winners Nobel Laureates James Batcheller Sumner (1887 - 1995) - Professor of Biochemistry (faculty 1929-1955), 1946 Nobel Peace Prize in Chemistry for crystallization the first enzyme George Wells Beadle (1903 - 1989), Ph.D. '30 -Professor of Molecularly Biology and Genetics, 1958 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for the "one gene, one enzyme" hypothesis Robert W. Holley (1922 - 1993), Ph.D. '47 -Professor of Biochemistry, 1968 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for cracking the genetic code of ribonucleic acid (RNA) Norman Ernest Borlaug (1914 - 2009) - Father of the Green Revolution, Andrew D. White Professor-at-Large 1982-88, 1970 Nobel Peace Prize for improving cultivation methods to combat world hunger Barbara McClintock (1902 - 1992), B.S. '23, M.A. '25, Ph.D. '27 - World-Renowned Cytogeneticist, Professor of Genetics 1927-74, 1983 Nobel Peace Prize in Physiology or Medicine for her work on mobile genetic elements. The United States Postal Service commissioned a stamp in her honor in 2005. National Academy of Sciences (NAS) Fellows Gregory Martin (Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology) - elected in 2022 Christopher Barrett (Dyson and Global Development) - elected in 2022 Maureen Hanson (Molecular Biology and Genetics) - elected in 2021 Anurag Agrawal (Ecology and Evolutionary Biology) - elected in 2021 Susan McCouch (Plant Breeding and Genetics)- elected in 2018 James J. Giovannoni (Plant Breeding and Genetics) - elected in 2016 (adjunct professor) John T. Lis (Molecular Biology and Genetics) - elected in 2015 Edward Buckler (Plant Breeding and Genetics) - elected in 2014 June B. Nasrallah (Plant Biology) - elected in 2003 Steve Tanksley (Plant Breeding and Genetics) - elected in 1995 Jeffrey W. Roberts, (Molecular Biology and Genetics) elected in 1999 Wendell Roelofs (Entomology) - elected in 1985 (emeritus) Dale Bauman (Animal Science) - elected in 1988 (emeritus) National Academy of Engineers Members Jean-Yves Parlange,* Biological and Environmental Engineering (2006) Norman R. Scott,* Biological and Environmental Engineering (1990) MacArthur Faculty Fellows 2003: Pedro A. Sanchez, B.S. ’62, M.S. ’64, Ph.D. ’68 - Soil Science, in South America. He led a team that transformed 75 million acres of marginal land in Brazil into arable productivity, one of the largest such conversions ever 1981: Barbara McClintock, B.S. ’23, M.A. ’25, Ph.D. ’27; Faculty 1927-74 - Genetics World Food Prize Laureates Robert Chandler, Jr. - Horticulture, Former Professor John "Mr. Potato" Niederhauser - Alumnus - B.S. and Ph.D., Plant Pathology Per Pinstrup-Andersen - IP-CALS, Retired Professor, Nutrition w/Human Ecology Pedro Sanchez - Alumnus - B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. Soil Science Colin McClung - Alumnus - M.S. and Ph.D. Soil Science George McGovern - Brief Lecturer at Cornell in 1990 Jan Low - Alumna - M.S. Ag Economics, Ph.D. Production Economics, Dyson School American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Faculty Fellows Prabhu Pingali, Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management (2021) Jeremy Searle, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (2020) John W. Fitzpatrick, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (2020) Catherine Kling, Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management (2019) Cédric Feschotte, Molecular Biology and Genetics (2019) Ronnie Coffman, Global Development/International Programs (2019) Corrie Moreau, Entomology (2018) Karl Joseph Niklas, Plant Biology (2018) Charles Walcott, Neurobiology and Behavior (2018) Martin Wiedmann, Food Science (2018) Joseph B. Yavitt, Natural Resources (2018) Daniel Barbash, Molecular Biology & Genetics (2017) Amanda Rodewald, Natural Resources and Lab of Ornithology (2017) Christine Smart, School of Integrative Plant Science (2017) Sidney Liebovich (2016) Kathryn Boor, Food Science (2015) Patricia Johnson, Animal Science (2013) Rui Hai Liu, Food Science (2011) Michael Scanlon (2009) John Schimenti (2008) Bruce Lewenstein (2002) American Academy of Arts and Sciences - elected faculty Maureen Hanson, Molecular Biology and Genetics (2021) Harry Walter Greene, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (2014) Anthony P. Bretscher, Molecular Biology and Genetics (2018) Kenneth J. Kemphues, Molecular Biology and Genetics (2013) John T. Lis, Molecular Biology and Genetics (2013) Sandra L. Vehrencamp, Neurobiology and Behavior; Laboratory of Ornithology (2013) Ronald Raymond Hoy, Neurobiology and Behavior (2010) Stephen T. Emlen, Neurobiology and Behavior (2007) Scott D. Emr, Molecular Biology and Genetics (2004) Thomas D. Seeley, Neurobiology and Behavior (2001) Malden C. Nesheim, Nutritional Sciences (1995) Jeffrey W. Roberts, Molecular Biology and Genetics (1995) Frank H. T. Rhodes, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences; President Emeritus (1989) Wendell L. Roelofs, Entomology, Cornell Geneva Campus (1986) National Medal of Science Winners 1994 - Thomas Eisner 1983 - Wendell Roelofs 1976 - Efraim Racker 1970 - Barbara McClintock, B.S. '23, M.A. '25, Ph.D '27, faculty 1927 Alexander von Humboldt Foundation Award Recipients 2020 - Johannes Lehmann, School of Integrative Plant Science, Soil and Crop Sciences Section. The award recognizes Lehmann’s lifetime achievement in soil science, pushing frontiers in methods, approaches and concepts particularly his research and teaching in the areas of biochar, carbon sequestration and climate change, and the exploration of the art-science interface. 2002 - Dennis Gonsalves, Plant Pathology. Internationally known for developing the ringspot virus-resistant papaya that saved the Hawaiian papaya industry. (No longer at Cornell.) 1998 - Steve Tanksley, Plant Breeding & Genetics. Developed the first molecular maps of rice and tomatoes. Tanksley used these genetic guides for the identification of trait locations on genes, and he was the first plant geneticist to use map-based cloning of a pest-resistance gene in a crop plant. 1977 - Wendell Roelofs, Entomology. Internationally known for his pioneering research with insect pheromones. We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information