Skip to main content Cornell Cooperative Extension is a collaboration between The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and The College of Human Ecology. Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Main navigation Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices About People News & Stories Extension Out Loud Podcast Navigation Main mobile navigation Our Work Our Work Overview Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Join Us Overview Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices Local Offices Overview About About Overview People News & Stories News & Stories Overview Extension Out Loud Podcast Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants About Cornell Cooperative Extension Breadcrumb Home CCE Innovation. Action. Impact. CCE puts knowledge to work in pursuit of economic vitality, ecological sustainability and social well-being. We bring local experience and research-based solutions together, helping New York state families and communities thrive in our rapidly changing world. Cornell Cooperative Extension: Helping New Yorkers thrive Play Cornell Cooperative Extension: Helping New Yorkers Thrive Improving lives From food and nutrition to economic vitality to environmental and social resilience, Cornell Cooperative Extension (CCE) is dedicated to improving lives across New York state. CCE connects communities with Cornell University research from the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) and the College of Human Ecology (CHE) to enrich and empower New York state neighbors, local businesses, towns and cities. Across New York, CCE works hard to improve: Farming and food production Parenting, family life and family dynamics Child health and nutrition Veteran and military family opportunities Water, land and energy conservation and management Community resilience Nutrition education and health Financial security and economic vitality Dynamic education Cornell Cooperative Extension is a dynamic education system connecting Cornell’s world-class research with regional and county-based educators and partners across the state. With a presence in every county and all five boroughs of New York City, CCE is uniquely positioned to tailor opportunities and resources to match the diverse and ever-evolving needs of individual communities across the state. CCE partners with local, state and federal government agencies, and is supported by the national Land-Grant system and Cornell University. In fulfillment of Cornell’s Land-Grant mission, faculty and staff—primarily from CALS and CHE—collaborate with extension associates, agriculture specialists, CCE educators and staff, local partners and volunteers across New York state to engage citizens and empower communities to transform and grow from the ground up. The resulting education system is responsive, nimble, research-based and locally-rooted. CCE educators develop programming that collects information and experience from their own communities to inform Cornell research and program development. Such a dynamic organization would not be possible without the dedicated staff, volunteers and partnerships that power the CCE system. Extending research New York was a pioneer in extending research information to its citizens with the founding of “Cornell University Extension” in 1894—a milestone that predates the nationwide Cooperative Extension system established in 1914. The campus, with its research and extension role, has been—and must continue to be—critical to the success of New York’s diverse communities. From agricultural innovations aimed at keeping our food systems secure and economically sustainable to conservation efforts and outreach designed to mitigate climate change, to 4-H youth development, nutrition education, and parenting programming, CCE is here to meet new and unique challenges faced by citizens in every county and across the five boroughs of New York City. Diversity Cornell Cooperative Extension is committed  to diversity, equal opportunity and affirmative action in the development of its policies, programs, procedures and practices through its affiliation with Cornell University and as a part of the national extension system through the United States Department of Agriculture.   CCE's mission, vision and values are entrenched in the principles of diversity, equal opportunity and affirmative action; they provide the foundation from which we operate. Cornell Cooperative Extension CCE deploys 60+ agricultural specialists across the state and partners with nearly 400 Cornell faculty and staff. 1.5K+ staff and educators statewide 250K+ children and teens engaged in 4-H programming 13K Residents volunteer with CCE state-wide Innovation, Action, Impact. Local Offices About CCE CCE News and Stories Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Get Connected CCE Directory Contact Us Jobs with CCE Summer Internships Work Teams Follow Us Facebook Youtube Channel Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Footer CCE CCE Privacy Policy CCE Staff Site Equal Opportunity Web Accessibility