Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Research Our Experts Marc F Fuchs Marc Fuchs Professor, School of Integrative Plant Science Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology Section Cornell AgriTech Marc was born and raised in Alsace, France. He received his Master’s and PhD degrees from the University Louis Pasteur in Strasbourg, France. His program emphasizes translational research on virus diseases. Primary research goals are to (i) investigate the nature of virus populations to better understand disease spread, (ii) elucidate the interface between viruses, their vectors, and plant hosts to characterize spread and pathogenicity, and (iii) explore innovative approaches for disease management. Extension efforts of the Fuchs program focus on the identification of emerging virus diseases, and the dissemination of information on the biology and ecology of virus diseases. Interests Virus diseases of fruit and vegetable crops Grape viruses Plant virus-insect vector interactions Recent Research My program emphasizes translational research on virus diseases of vegetable and fruit crops. Primary goals are to determine the genetic variability of virus populations for advancing our understanding of virus spread, and to study interactions between viruses, vectors, and plant hosts with the aims of developing robust detection methodologies, and implementing innovative approaches for crop improvement. Outreach and Extension Focus The extension component of my program focuses on the (i) identification of virus diseases of vegetable and fruit crops, in particular emerging diseases, (iii) dissemination of information on the biology and ecology of viral diseases to extension educators, growers, regulators, horticulture inspectors, and agriculture service providers. Efforts are also directed to a grape certification program and service activities for assisting the management of virus diseases of vegetable and fruit crops. Selected Journal Publications View profile and publications on Google Scholar. Osterbaan, L. J., Jiyeong Choi, J., Flasco, M., Vigne, E., Schmitt-Keichinger, C., Rebelo, A. R., Cilia, M., & Fuchs, M. F. (2019). The identity of a single residue of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase of grapevine fanleaf virus modulates vein clearing symptoms in Nicotiana benthamiana. Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions. Cieniewicz, E., Thompson, J. R., McLane, H., Perry, K. L., Dangl, G. S., Corbett, Q., Martinson, T., Wise, A., Wallis, A., O’Connell, J., Dunst, R., Cox, K., & Fuchs, M. F. (2018). Prevalence and Genetic Diversity of Grabloviruses in Free-Living Vitis spp. Plant Disease. 102:2308-2316. Yepes, L. M., Cieniewicz, E., Krenz, B., McLane, H., Thompson, J. R., Perry , K. L., & Fuchs, M. F. (2018). Causative Role of Grapevine Red Blotch Virus in Red Blotch Disease. Phytopathology. 108:902-909. Martin, I., Vigne, E., Berthold, F., Komar, V., Lemaire, O., Fuchs, M. F., & Schmitt-Keichinger, C. (2018). The 50 distal amino acids of the 2AHP homing protein of Grapevine fanleaf virus elicit a hypersensitive reaction on Nicotiana occidentalis. Molecular Plant Pathology. 19:731–743. Cieniewicz, E. J., Pethybridge, S., Loeb, G. M., Perry, K., & Fuchs, M. F. (2018). Insights Into the Ecology of Grapevine red blotch virus in a Diseased Vineyard. Phytopathology. 108:94-102. Cieniewicz, E. J., Pethybridge, S. J., Gorny, A., Madden, L. V., McLane, H., Perry, K. L., & Fuchs, M. F. (2017). Spatiotemporal spread of grapevine red blotch-associated virus in a California vineyard. Virus Research. 241:156-162. Ricketts, K. D., Gómez, M. I., Fuchs, M. F., Martinson, T. E., Smith, R. J., Cooper, M. L., Moyer, M. M., & Wise, A. (2016). Mitigating the economic impact of grapevine red blotch: Optimizing disease management strategies in U.S. vineyards. American Journal of Enology and Viticulture. 68:127-135. Sudarshana, M. R., Perry, K. L., & Fuchs, M. F. (2015). Grapevine red blotch-associated virus, an emerging threat to the grapevine industry. Phytopathology. 105:1026-1032. Thompson, J. R., Langenhan, J. L., Fuchs, M. F., Perry, K. L., & , (2015). Genotyping of Cucumber mosaic virus isolates in western New York State during epidemic years. Virus Research. 210:169-177. Vigne, E., Gottula, J., Schmitt-Keichinger, C., Komar, V., Ackerer, L., Rakotomalala, L., Lemaire, O., Ritzenthaler, C., & Fuchs, M. F. (2013). A strain specific segment of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase of Grapevine fanleaf virus elicits symptoms in Nicotiana species. Journal of General Virology. 94:2803-2813. Awards & Honors Research award (2016) New York Wine and Grape Foundation Courses Taught I am teaching PLPA 8900 (Master’s-Level Thesis Research) and PLPA 9900 (Doctoral-Level Thesis Research) and guest lecturing in PLPA 3010, PLPA 4010, PLPA 4200 and PLBR 4030. Contact Information 15 Castle Creek Drive Barton Laboratory Geneva, NY 14456 (315) 787-2487 mf13 [at] cornell.edu School & Section School of Integrative Plant Science Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology Section Graduate Fields Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology More information Fuchs Lab Website Education Doctorate Université Louis Pasteur 1989 Master of Science Université Louis Pasteur 1986 Bachelor of Science Université Louis Pasteur 1981 Marc in the news News May 17, 2022 Quick View Vine removal technique foils devastating grape disease Removing not only a diseased grapevine but the two vines on either side of it can reduce the incidence of leafroll disease, a long-standing bane of vineyards around the world, Cornell researchers have found. Cornell AgriTech School of Integrative Plant Science Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology Section News May 3, 2021 Fuchs recognized by American Phytopathological Society Cornell AgriTech School of Integrative Plant Science Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology Section Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information