Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Extension Impact Meaningful impact for the Empire State and beyond. Breadcrumb Home Outreach & Extension Our Extension Impact Our Outreach & Extension Impact In a public lecture he delivered at Cornell in January 1893, Dean Liberty Hyde Bailey shared his view of the place of extension in the mission of Land-Grant institutions saying, "I should like to see the principle officially recognized that the office of universities is primarily a mission to the people ..." Today, extension is not just a one-way street for research to get to citizens, but rather a vibrant two-way interaction where community needs are identiﬁed and appropriate research and outreach responses take place. This is public engagement. This is educational democracy in action. Navigation Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Press for additional information on Extension Firsts Extension Firsts Mortier Franklin Barrus (B.S. 1911, Ph.D. 1914) was the first official extension plant pathologist in the U.S. Return to front of card Press for additional information on Birth of Home Economics at Cornell Birth of Home Economics at Cornell In 1900, Martha Van Rensselaer began a program of extension work with farm women. Return to front of card She and Flora Rose went on to head the Department of Home Economics within the College of Agriculture. In 1925, it became the New York State College of Home Economics, the first state-chartered college of home economics (now human ecology) in the country. Press for additional information on Extension Firsts Extension Firsts John Craig was the first professor of extension teaching in agriculture in the U.S. Return to front of card Play Ripple effect: Cornell helps restore Long Island’s shellfish Play We are Cornell AgriTech Play Great Backyard Bird Count Cornell Cooperative Extension of Suffolk County’s marine program – the only one of its kind in the state – is restoring native shellfish populations to Long Island, improving ecosystems and economies. Pioneer in the field: Eschewing a focus only on chemistry, Cornell AgriTech was the first experiment station with a broad agricultural mission and became a model for later stations. Cornell Lab of Ornithology and National Audubon Society's Great Backyard Bird Count was the first online citizen-science project to collect data on wild birds and display results in near real-time. Previous Next Press for additional information on Addressing Ag Workforce Challenges Addressing Ag Workforce Challenges The Cornell Agricultural Workforce Development program helps farm and agribusiness managers build effective employee teams by applying the best human resource management practices for the agricultural setting. Return to front of card Run by Richard Stup, a senior extension associate and agricultural workforce specialist in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and at Cornell Cooperative Extension, the program is unique because of its strong focus on research and extension. Press for additional information on Farming in the Big Apple Farming in the Big Apple Cornell University Cooperative Extension-New York City (CUCE-NYC) sows innovative urban agriculture projects in New York City schools, senior centers and public housing facilities. Return to front of card Philson Warner developed a hydroponic learning model at Manhattan’s Food and Finance High School. The technology quickly and cleanly produces high-quality fresh vegetables, and it also produces a better quality of learning for the students who work with it. Press for additional information on Bringing Nature Home Bringing Nature Home In 1893, Cornell received state funds to teach nature study in New York’s rural schools. Anna Botsford Comstock ran the program that produced the groundbreaking Home Nature-Study Course. Return to front of card Empowering the Empire State Every day, in every county in New York, individuals, schools, businesses, entrepreneurs, local governments, families and communities work with Cornell CALS to turn discoveries into real-world solutions. Empowering the Empire State Every day, in every county in New York, individuals, schools, businesses, entrepreneurs, local governments, families and communities work with Cornell CALS to turn discoveries into real-world solutions. Veggie Van Rusty Space Mushroom Burger Sustainable Dairy Native Birds Farm Ops Urban Ag Algal Blooms Ag Tours F.I.S.H Project Maple Innovation Bee Decline Refresh Switch to World Map Niagara County Veggie Van takes a bite out of hunger Jefferson County 4-H’ers prepare ‘rusty’ experiment for space station Monroe County Startup works with Cornell AgriTech on mushroom burger Sullivan County Sullivan County dairy sees hope ahead Orange County Community Garden supports native birds Steuben County Cornell Farm Ops sets up NYS veterans for success Kings County CCE sows seeds to grow urban agriculture Finger Lakes Region Can New York solve harmful algal blooms? Clinton County Legislators get a taste of agribusiness Suffolk County F.I.S.H. project raises awareness of Long Island fish farmers Lewis County Cornell Cooperative Extension supports NY's maple industry Tioga County Buzz About Bees: Southern Tier bees dying at rapid rates The Early Days of Extension Ag and homemaking correspondence courses began in 1897. Cornell's first "extension car" in 1913. Second from left: Martha Van Renssalaer. The Cornell Cooperative Extension train in 1946 boasted "eight cars of ideas!" We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information