Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Image Caption Button Cornell research technician Eileen Randall, left, and research support specialist Kurt Jirka, both of the Adirondack Fishery Research Program, motor out to fixed nets where they will collect brook trout samples at a lake near the the Little Moose Field Station, located near Old Forge, New York. News Brook trout hook for Cornell climate change research and extension outreach May 23, 2022 | By Cornell Cooperative Extension staff Share Cornell Cooperative Extension Little Moose Field Station Natural Resources and the Environment Climate Change Environment Fish In 1975, New York officially recognized the brook trout as the state fish. A favorite of anglers and a symbol of the pristine upstate wilderness, this species also contributes to New York state’s annual $2 billion freshwater fishing industry. Brook trout are native to the cool, clean, fresh waters of the Adirondacks. But because they’re so adapted to their environment, they’re also incredibly sensitive to change. “Over the years, brook trout populations have faced declines due to the introduction of non-native fish species as well as acid rain,” said Cornell Cooperative Extension (CCE) Assistant Director Keith Tidball, who is also a senior extension associate in the Department of Natural Resources and the Environment at Cornell. “A new threat is the gradual warming of waters that brook trout call home, and cold-water fish do not thrive in warm water.” Image Caption Button Cornell Cooperative Extension Assistant Director Keith Tidball (third from left) reflects on a morning of data gathering with members of Cornell’s Adirondack Fishery Research Program at lake near Old Forge, New York. Pictured, from left, are Thomas Detmer, Stephen Jane, Tidball, Pete McIntyre, Kurt Jirka and Eileen Randall. Image Caption Button Cornell research support specialist Kurt Jirka holds a brook trout after taking its measurements at a lake near the Little Moose Field Station outside Old Forge, New York. Image Caption Button Cornell Cooperative Extension Assistant Director Keith Tidball, also a senior extension associate in the Department of Natural Resources and the Environment, fishes for brook trout on Sagamore Lake near Raquette Lake, New York. The Department of Environmental Conservation has several restoration programs active to counteract the threats that face brook trout populations. From liming lakes to reduce acidity levels, to eradicating competitive non-native fish, the DEC has been working to restock waterways with native heritage strain brook trout and monitor populations. “The state programs remain effective,” Tidball said, “but there are many ways in which the general public who are passionate about brook trout can contribute to these protection and conservation efforts.” With the help of CCE Innovation Smith-Lever Federal Formula Funds, Tidball and colleagues built upon this passion for brook trout and forged a campus-to-community connection with Adirondack partners. Play Climate change threat surfaces for ADK brook trout Since conversations about climate change can be politically charged, CCE and Cornell faculty from the Adirondack Fisheries Research Program, as well as stakeholders such as Trout Unlimited, Trout Power, Great Camp Sagamore and others, are working together to leverage public interest in cherished flora and fauna – like the brook trout – to educate New York citizens about climate change and the threats it poses for fisheries and forests. “It is important to shape the climate change narrative to focus on relevancy, cause and effect, and mitigation solutions,” says Jamila Page, senior issue leader at CCE Hamilton County. Page, along with CCE Herkimer County Executive Director Garet Livermore, has been working on outreach events in the region to raise awareness of climate change impacts on cold-water fish populations. Initially, efforts focused on events related to the angling community at venues like the WILD Center and Adirondack Experience. In 2022, CCE will shift efforts toward more general outreach. “We had really good experiences at the Old Forge Farmers Market and other places where locals and tourists gather,” said Livermore. “It turns out that the message of the survival of heritage strains of brook trout and preserving them for the future is of great interest to a wide cross-section of the public.” Image Caption Button A Cornell Cooperative Extension Herkimer County display table gives information about brook trout research to Adirondack visitors. Keep Exploring Spotlight June 1, 2022 Quick View Solar grazing project combines renewable energy and agriculture Solar energy developers and farmers need land to operate, and a Cornell research project aims to demonstrate how co-locating solar arrays on farmland can be an environmentally friendly way to benefit both the renewable energy and agriculture industries. Cornell Atkinson Cornell Cooperative Extension Animal Science News May 24, 2022 Quick View Three students win Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards Matthew Borinshteyn ’25, Jennifer Lee ’23 and Avery MacLean ’22 received the 2022 Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards in recognition of their significant involvement in community service. Agriculture Sciences Major Natural Resources and the Environment School of Integrative Plant Science Explore All Stories We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information