Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Outreach & Extension Connecting our campus with our communities Breadcrumb Home Outreach & Extension Putting our knowledge to work to serve a public purpose Extension, outreach, engagement — putting knowledge and research to work for local, national and global communities has always been a primary purpose of the college. Cornell University created its first agricultural extension program in 1894, which is distinguished as the nation’s longest continuously operating extension program. Our faculty and staff are important innovators in agricultural, environmental and social extension work. A commitment to extend knowledge beyond the university is an integral part of the CALS culture and mission. Cornell Cooperative Extension (CCE) is a formal organization with offices on the Cornell campus and across New York state and New York City. Regional agricultural teams effectively bridge researchers on our campus with educators in our communities. In addition to the Cornell researchers who regularly work with county CCE staffers, we have more than 200 CALS faculty and staff who also conduct extension education programs with targeted audiences in a variety of other ways, including through community outreach, online courses, short courses, field days, public school events and more. The breadth and depth of our extension/outreach activities demonstrate a deep CALS commitment to a broad educational mission that links campus and public life. Whether on campus or off, we translate Cornell University’s world-class research into real-world practice that helps New York state residents, businesses and communities to thrive. In this section On campus and in your community Cornell Cooperative Extension Find an expert Engaged Cornell Our extension impact Find an extension program From around the corner to the Cornell campus, we have local offices and programs ready to support you. In your region: Regional agriculture teams CCE’s regional agriculture teams provide research-based information, programs and technical assistance to dairy, field crops, vegetable, tree fruit and grape producers all around New York state. In your county: Cornell Cooperative Extension Supported by federal, state and county funding, CCE links the research and extension efforts at Cornell to New York’s 62 counties and all NYC boroughs. On campus: CALS extension & outreach Cornell CALS extension and outreach personnel intersect with stakeholders at field days, workshops and a wide variety of other engagements. Cornell Cooperative Extension Ripple effect: Cornell helps restore Long Island's shellfish Learn more about this project CALS Extension & Outreach Cornell Farm Ops sets up NYS veterans for success Read more about this initiative Spotlight Slider Previous Next Did you know? Cornell is the only Ivy League university with a statewide Cooperative Extension system 800K people were directly reached by CCE programming in 2020, through online events and on-demand learning. 13K CCE volunteers were active in all program areas in 2020, extending the reach of staff in NYS communities. Outreach and extension stories See how our work is making a tangible difference in our communities. Has taxonomy terms (with depth) Article Type (field_article_type) CALS MagazineReportField NoteFutureCastMultimediaNewsSpotlight Event Type (field_event_type) ClassConferenceExhibitFairFestivalField DayLectureMeetingSeminarWebinarWorkshop Spotlight June 1, 2022 Quick View Solar grazing project combines renewable energy and agriculture Solar energy developers and farmers need land to operate, and a Cornell research project aims to demonstrate how co-locating solar arrays on farmland can be an environmentally friendly way to benefit both the renewable energy and agriculture industries. Cornell Atkinson Cornell Cooperative Extension Animal Science News May 23, 2022 Quick View Brook trout hook for Cornell climate change research and extension outreach In 1975, New York officially recognized the brook trout as the state fish. A favorite of anglers and a symbol of the pristine upstate wilderness, this species also contributes to New York state’s annual $2 billion freshwater fishing industry... Cornell Cooperative Extension Little Moose Field Station Natural Resources and the Environment View more news & stories We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information