Skip to main content Cornell Cooperative Extension is a collaboration between The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and The College of Human Ecology. Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Main navigation Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices About People News & Stories Extension Out Loud Podcast Navigation Main mobile navigation Our Work Our Work Overview Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Join Us Join Us Overview Jobs Internships Program Work Teams Course Catalogue New York State Farm to School Local Offices Local Offices Overview About About Overview People News & Stories News & Stories Overview Extension Out Loud Podcast Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home CCE CCE Privacy Policy Cornell University Cooperative Extension (CCE) is committed to respecting users of our website. For that purpose, this policy has been adopted to address the collection and use of information from the CCE Distance Learning site. To maintain effective privacy practices, CCE retains the right to update this policy without notice. Questions regarding this policy should be directed to Cornell Cooperative Extension by sending an email to cce-contact [at] cornell.edu. Please reference the CCE Privacy Policy in your subject line. Effective Date of Privacy Notice The privacy notice was last revised on June 19, 2019. Information Collected CCE collects two types of information from users: information provided by the user to receive requested information and/or services, and information passively collected upon a user’s visit to our website. Passively Collected Information When a user visits our site, some information such as the visitor’s Internet protocol (IP) address, Internet service provider, operating system, the site from which the visitor arrived, and the time and date of the user’s visit may be collected automatically as part of the software operation of the website. This intake of information is not personally identifiable. Additionally, CCE is currently using Google Analytics, a web metrics service, to collect certain information automatically upon a user’s visit. For more information regarding Google Analytics, see Google's privacy policy. Cookies Cookies are text files stored on your computer and accessible only to the websites which create them. Our websites may use cookies to keep you logged into secure areas of the website and/or to keep track of your preferences as you interact with certain services. You may disable cookies in your browser, however, our websites may not work properly if you do so. Log Files Our websites automatically gather anonymous information about our visitors including IP addresses, browser types, and the times and dates of webpage visits. The information collected does not include any personally identifiable details and is used to improve our services and administer our websites. Information Retention Information that is collected will be retained for an unlimited period of time or until a right of erasure request is issued. Please contact gdpr [at] cornell.edu for all questions regarding the European Union’s (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Security Please note that electronic communication is not guaranteed to be secure against interception and do not send confidential data by email or web form. Information Provided by the User Users may provide CCE with non-personally and personally identifiable information to utilize certain services and retrieve information. Such instances may not be noticeable to the user and include, but are not limited to: filling out surveys, completing registration information, and submitting certain online forms. Use of Information CCE uses information collected solely for internal purposes, such as part of enrollment in online courses or to see what pages are most frequently visited, to improve our website. We do not sell, trade, or rent your personal information to others. We may share your information across departments within CCE or within Cornell University, as appropriate. We may release account information when we believe, in good faith, that such release is reasonably necessary to: comply with law enforce or apply the terms of any of our user agreements or protect the rights, property or safety of CCE, any department or office affiliated with CCE, Cornell University, our users, or others. Your consent By using this website, you consent to the collection and use of this information by CCE, its affiliated departments and offices, and by Cornell University for your enrollment in programs offered through CCE. If we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes on this page before the changes take effect. Of course, our use of information gathered while the current policy is in effect will always be consistent with the current policy, even if we change that policy later. If you have questions about this Privacy Policy, please contact us at cce-contact [at] cornell.edu. Other Websites Our website contains links to other websites. Please note that when you click on one of these links, you are entering another website for which CCE has no responsibility. We encourage you to read the privacy statements on all such sites as their policies may be different than ours. Special Notice for EU Residents If you are located within the European Economic Area (European Union, Norway, Liechtenstein, and Iceland), we acknowledge the rights granted to you under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). These rights may include: Right to access your information held by us Right to correct inaccurate or incorrect information about you Right to the erasure of your information when it is no longer necessary for us to retain it Right to restrict processing of your personal information in specific situations Right to object to processing your information, including sending you communications that may be considered direct-marketing materials Right to object to automated decision-making and profiling, where applicable Right to complain to a supervisory authority in your jurisdiction within the EU Please contact us with any questions, concerns, or if you wish to exercise any of these rights: cce-contact [at] cornell.edu Contacting the Website If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, the practices of this website, or your dealings with this website, you can contact us by email at cce-contact [at] cornell.edu. Cornell Cooperative Extension adheres to the Cornell University Data Stewardship and Custodianship policy. The full Cornell University Data Stewardship and Custodianship policy is available at: Cornell University Policy 4.12. Innovation, Action, Impact. Local Offices About CCE CCE News and Stories Our Work Agriculture Community Environment Nutrition Youth & Families Get Connected CCE Directory Contact Us Jobs with CCE Summer Internships Work Teams Follow Us Facebook Youtube Channel Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Footer CCE CCE Privacy Policy CCE Staff Site Equal Opportunity Web Accessibility