Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Our Values & Impact Breadcrumb Home About Our Values & Impact The Character of Our Community “In the process of acquiring a reputation,” noted Carl Becker, the John Stambaugh Professor of History, on the 75th anniversary of the signing of the university’s charter, “Cornell acquired something better than a reputation... It acquired a character.” Why character? Character is core. Character is concrete. Character is what you believe, value and hold to be true. Cornell University has six core values that bind us as a community: Purposeful Discovery, Free and Open Inquiry and Discussion, A Community of Belonging, Exploration across Boundaries, Changing Lives through Public Engagement and Respect for the Natural Environment. Underpinning Cornell's Land-Grant mission, CALS shares the core values held by the university and strives to reflect those in all aspects of our teaching, research and extension work. Core values are defined as inviolable commitments that express "who we are as a community" and what principles or qualities should infuse all practices and activities within the community. Here are our 10 core values: Seek knowledge Support free and open intellectual inquiry and expression Sustain excellence in teaching, research and public engagement Use knowledge to enlighten ourselves and benefit the world Reward and recognize merit, creativity and innovation Treat all individuals with dignity, respect and fairness Embrace difference and diversity Promote cross-cultural and cross-national understanding Be a collaborative, collegial and caring community Be accessible and affordable to all who meet high academic standards Navigation About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Roadmap to 2050 History Sustainability Commitment Robust, Responsible Science Notable CALS Alumni Faculty & Staff Awards Land-Grant Mission Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us In this section Our History Strategic Direction Land-Grant Mission Sustainability Pledge Scientific Integrity Statement Notable Alumni Office of Diversity and Inclusion Faculty & Staff Awards Highlights of our values commitment Diversity Distribution Requirement CALS has long had a human diversity course requirement for the college’s undergraduate students and was the first college at Cornell to do so. Our commitment has driven the development of new courses that address issues of diversity and inclusion. Highlights of our values commitment Intergroup Dialogue Project CALS has offered a Intergroup Dialogue Project course since 2012. With CALS' enthusiastic support, Cornell has since adopted it for all incoming first-year students, and they are expanding their offerings to faculty and staff. Highlights of our values commitment Active Learning Initiative CALS offers or collaborates to provide a variety of workshops, discussions, training opportunities and lunches to encourage and help all faculty incorporate AL into their teaching styles and outcomes. Highlights of our values commitment Diversity and Inclusion Diversity is necessary to continually build an equitable, welcoming and thriving community. Read more about our DEI office. Highlights of our values commitment Scientific Integrity Statement CALS is guided by the ethos of Robust, Responsible Science. Read our statement on scientific integrity. Spotlight Slider Previous Next We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information