Skip to main content Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Cornell University Home College of Agriculture & Life Sciences Home Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links School of Integrative Plant Science Main navigation Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Plant Sciences Major MS/PhD Graduate Fields MPS Degree Research Foundational Knowledge Food Security Environmental Conservation Health & Well-Being Research by Crop Organic Agriculture Outreach & Extension Food production Sustainable landscapes Biodiversity resources Education programs International Special interest Get local help School Sections Horticulture Section Plant Biology Section Plant Breeding & Genetics Section Plant Pathology & Plant-Microbe Biology Section Soil & Crop Sciences Section About People SIPS News Campuses & Facilities Diversity-Inclusion-Accessibility Internal School Resources Seminars & Events Vision & History Ways to Give SIPS Strategic Plan Navigation Main mobile navigation Degrees & Programs Degrees & Programs Overview Undergraduate Plant Sciences Major MS/PhD Graduate Fields MPS Degree Research Research Overview Foundational Knowledge Food Security Environmental Conservation Health & Well-Being Research by Crop Organic Agriculture Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview Food production Sustainable landscapes Biodiversity resources Education programs International Special interest Get local help School Sections School Sections Overview Horticulture Section Plant Biology Section Plant Breeding & Genetics Section Plant Pathology & Plant-Microbe Biology Section Soil & Crop Sciences Section About About Overview People SIPS News Campuses & Facilities Diversity-Inclusion-Accessibility Internal School Resources Seminars & Events Vision & History Ways to Give SIPS Strategic Plan Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Science-based innovation for a changing world Research. Education. Outreach. Join our mission to address global challenges of food security, environmental conservation, biodiversity and human health and well-being. Learn more about our vision, people and facilities. Make a difference. Major in the plant sciences. Undergraduate study in the plant sciences Research areas in SIPS Quick View Close quick view Research areas in SIPS SIPS researchers are addressing local, state and global challenges with innovation, cutting edge technologies and cross-disciplinary collaboration. Graduate studies in SIPS Quick View Close quick view Graduate studies in SIPS Dynamic, flexible and interdisciplinary education in five graduate fields, empowering students with skills in innovative problem solving, communication and leadership. SIPS extension & outreach Quick View Close quick view SIPS extension & outreach Our research delivers solutions, enhances the economy and improves quality of life for growers, educators and the general public, as well as addressing global concerns. School of Integrative Plant Science sections Horticulture Plant Biology Plant Breeding & Genetics Plant Pathology & Plant-Microbe Biology Soil & Crop Sciences You belong here Creating a diverse, inclusive, and supportive community Report a Bias Incident Diversity & Inclusion Resources: CALS, SIPS Faculty & Staff Assistance: Counseling & Support Employee Wellbeing & Mental Health at Cornell School of Integrative Plant Science Learn how our research in plant and soil sciences is advancing our knowledge and securing food security and environmental sustainability. Has taxonomy terms (with depth) Article Type (field_article_type) CALS MagazineReportField NoteFutureCastMultimediaNewsSpotlight Event Type (field_event_type) ClassConferenceExhibitFairFestivalField DayLectureMeetingSeminarWebinarWorkshop Offset Spotlight Details Solar grazing project combines renewable energy and agriculture Solar energy developers and farmers need land to operate, and a Cornell research project aims to demonstrate how co-locating solar arrays on farmland can be an environmentally friendly way to benefit both the renewable energy and agriculture industries. Cornell Atkinson Cornell Cooperative Extension Animal Science Spotlight May 25, 2022 Quick View Hale Ann Tufan: At the nexus of gender equality and agricultural research As a young researcher working with plant breeders to develop improved wheat varieties for smallholder farmers, Hale Ann Tufan confronted a profound dilemma. It wasn’t an issue of gnarly plant genetics or unruly research fields — commonplace... Department of Global Development School of Integrative Plant Science Plant Breeding and Genetics Section News May 24, 2022 Quick View Three students win Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards Matthew Borinshteyn ’25, Jennifer Lee ’23 and Avery MacLean ’22 received the 2022 Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards in recognition of their significant involvement in community service. Agriculture Sciences Major Natural Resources and the Environment School of Integrative Plant Science News May 24, 2022 Quick View Program donates vegetable starts to underserved families It’s that time of year, when New York gardeners are bringing home tomato starts and other vegetables to transplant into their gardens. This season, more than 250 underserved (and often food-insecure) Ithaca-area families once again will have the... School of Integrative Plant Science Horticulture Section Plants News May 20, 2022 Quick View Celebrating the CALS Class of 2022 With the end of another academic year in sight, we’d like to recognize both the CALS undergraduate and graduate classes of 2022. Cornell AgriTech Office of Undergraduate Biology Animal Science Load More Life-changing impact Explore some of our current research in the plant and soil sciences and see how New York's Land-Grant university is making an impact both in our home state and around the world. World ContinentsMap of the World Soil remediation Plant evolution International collaboration Disease diagnosis Refresh Switch to New York State Map Africa South America Asia North America Soil remediation Plant evolution International collaboration Disease diagnosis Life-changing impact Explore some of our current research in the plant and soil sciences and see how New York's Land-Grant university is making an impact both in our home state and around the world. Land Acknowledgment Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York State, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. We openly share valuable knowledge. Often through email. Sign up for more insights, discoveries and solutions. Please enter a valid email address to subscribe to the newsletter. Email Address Subscribe Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information