Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Research Our Experts Neil Lewis, Jr. Neil Lewis, Jr. Assistant Professor, Department of Communication Dr. Neil A. Lewis, Jr. is an Assistant Professor of Communication and Social Behavior with graduate field appointments in Communication and Psychology at Cornell University, and Assistant Professor of Communication Research in Medicine in the Division of General Internal Medicine at Weill Cornell Medical College. Dr. Lewis's research examines how the interplay between people's identities and social contexts influence people's motivation to pursue their goals, and their success in goal pursuit efforts. He most often studies these processes in the domains of education, health, and environmental sustainability, in hopes that a better understanding of situated identity-based motivation processes can provide useful insights for developing interventions to help people achieve their goals. He is particularly interested in developing and scaling interventions that have the potential to reduce disparities in education, health, and environmental outcomes. Research Focus Professor Lewis’s research examines how and why people’s identities and social contexts interact to influence their motivation to pursue their goals and success in achieving them. He directs the Motivation and Goal Pursuit Lab which studies these processes most often in the domains of education and health. One goal of the lab is to use the knowledge gained from this research to inform interventions to improve outcomes and reduce social disparities Teaching Focus Professor Lewis teaches students how to use principles from the social and behavioral sciences to better understand their social world, and challenges them to use that knowledge to better the world around them. At the undergraduate level, he teaches courses on persuasion and social influence as well as stereotyping and implicit bias. At the graduate level, he teaches courses on research methodology in the social and behavioral sciences. Education Doctorate, University of Michigan - 2017 Master of Science, University of Michigan - 2015 Bachelor of Arts, Cornell University - 2013 Bachelor of Arts, Cornell University - 2013 Awards & Honors Rising Star Early Career Award Association for Psychological Science Courses Taught COMM 6770: Attitudes and Social Judgment COMM 2990: Directed Research Experience COMM 7990: Graduate Research Contact Information 467 Mann Library Building Ithaca, NY 14853 nlewisjr [at] cornell.edu Additional Links Personal Website Laboratory Website Selected Publications Journal Publications Lewis, N., & Yates, J. F. (2019). Preparing Disadvantaged Students for Success in College: Lessons Learned from the Preparation Initiative. Perspectives on Psychological Science. 14:54–59. Neil in the news News May 5, 2022 Quick View Misperceptions can threaten scientific advancement Misperceptions of marginalized and disadvantaged communities’ level of concern regarding COVID-19 and other issues could undermine cooperation and trust needed to address collective problems, according to new Cornell-led research. Department of Communication Communication Health + Nutrition News March 21, 2022 Quick View Legal language affects how police officers are judged Published research in 2020 found that Black and white Americans, when asked to take the perspective of a juror who would have to decide whether an officer should be indicted, reached different conclusions, even when presented with identical... Department of Communication Behavior Communication Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information