Skip to main content AIISP is a CALS-based unit that provides Indigenous-related academic, student support and outreach services to Cornell University. Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program Main navigation About Land Acknowledgment History News Community Partners People Events Academics & Research AIISP Funding Research AIIS Undergraduate Minor AIIS Graduate Minor AIIS Courses Resources Student Life Leadership & Professional Development Student Organizations Caldwell Hall Resources Akwe:kon About Akwe:kon Programming & Events Engagement & Community Outreach House Resources Apply Future Students Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Navigation Main mobile navigation About About Overview Land Acknowledgment History News Community Partners People Events Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview AIISP Funding Research AIIS Undergraduate Minor AIIS Graduate Minor AIIS Courses Resources Student Life Student Life Overview Leadership & Professional Development Student Organizations Caldwell Hall Resources Akwe:kon Akwe:kon Overview About Akwe:kon Programming & Events Engagement & Community Outreach House Resources Apply Future Students Future Students Overview Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Land Acknowledgment For Cornell University's Ithaca Campus Breadcrumb Home AIISP About AIISP Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. In addition to the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' land acknowledgment but separate from it, the AIISP faculty would like to emphasize: Cornell's founding was enabled in the course of a national genocide by the sale of almost one million acres of stolen Indian land under the Morrill Act of 1862. To date the university has neither officially acknowledged its complicity in this theft nor has it offered any form of restitution to the hundreds of Native communities impacted. For additional information, see the Cornell University and Indigenous Dispossession website here. What is a Land Acknowledgment? A land acknowledgment is a statement that respects Indigenous peoples as the original inhabitants of the lands we occupy, as well as recognizing their long history in and their enduring connections to their traditional homelands. Land acknowledgments draw attention to these ongoing ties and bring listeners’ thoughts both to histories of dispossession and violence and the resilience and continuing vitality of Indigenous communities who persist against great odds. Locally specific Land acknowledgements are locally-specific: they should be tailored to reflect where the speaker is physically located. Cornell University also has campuses in Geneva, New York, and New York City, where acknowledgements need to be different to reflect the original occupants of those particular lands. Cornell’s continental impact AIISP also notes that through the Morrill Act land-grant process, in which the federal government deeded Indian lands stolen by force and fraud in the course of a national genocide to 52 land-grant universities, Cornell University became economically and morally tied to Indigenous Nations whose traditional territories were located in what are now the U.S. states of California, Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wisconsin. The university also possesses land throughout New York state (experimental farms, research stations and the like) and retains mineral rights in the U.S. Midwest and Southwest. Further, some of the over 240 Nations that originally lived in these areas were forced into new locations through the agenda of settler colonialism, including forced migrations into what is now Canada. A full accounting of the scope of Cornell’s complicity in Indigenous dispossession must attend to all of these lands and peoples. For more information, please visit the Cornell University and Indigenous Dispossession Project website. Traditional territories If you need help determining which traditional territory you are situated in, a useful website is Native Land. For various historical reasons, including displacement, migration, group fission and fusion and genocide, determining original inhabitants is not a simple matter. The information contained in Native Lands is explicitly termed a “work in progress,” but it is a good-faith effort led by Indigenous researchers that can serve as a starting point for further investigation. Additional information When and how should you use a Land Acknowledgment? As an educational institution, Cornell University faculty and staff have a particular obligation to making the Indigenous history of our location, and the current status of local Indigenous Nations, more widely known. One way to do this is to make frequent use of the land acknowledgment. Cornell community members are encouraged to read the acknowledgment at the beginning of gatherings and events. It is particularly pertinent to use the acknowledgment at important events, such as welcome functions, graduation ceremonies, building dedications, and public occasions, but Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leaders stress that such statements should be used as often as possible. It is also appropriate to include a land acknowledgment in course syllabi, and such statements increasingly are being used in academic publications, including scientific reports. Use of the land acknowledgment should be done respectfully and not become merely routine. It is not appropriate to create alternative statements, alter the acknowledgement, or invent ceremonial rituals when reading the land acknowledgment. Always use the names Indigenous Nations call themselves, rather than the names that are commonly used in the U.S. mainstream, as many of these are outsider terms (exonyms) that often are derogatory. Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' pronunciation guide For pronunciation of the names of the original inhabitants of the Ithaca area, Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' is approximately Guy-yo-KO-no and Haudenosaunee is approximately Ho-di-no-SO-ni. Please also listen to Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' language teacher Steve Henhawk’s pronunciation in this video associated with his Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' language course at Cornell. Mr. Henhawk uses Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' several times in the first portion of the video. Resources For an additional perspective on the crafting and meaning of land acknowledgements, see the video by Humboldt State University Professor Cutcha Risling Baldy (Hupa, Yurok and Karuk). The first 26 minutes contain a general discussion, while the remainder of the presentation is specifically about the history of Indigenous peoples in California. Cornell’s AIISP took inspiration from the land acknowledgement page on the University of California-Santa Cruz website. Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information