Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Us Contact Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Search Accommodation Policies Responsibilities Grievance Procedure Confidentiality Federal Laws & Legal Precedents About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops Accommodation Policies Responsibilities Grievance Procedure Confidentiality Federal Laws & Legal Precedents About Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Policies & Procedures Home Office of Disability Services Policies and Procedures Grievance Procedure AAA Grievance Procedure Accommodation Policies Responsibilities Grievance Procedure Confidentiality Federal Laws & Legal Precedents The University of Miami, through the Office of Disability Services, established a grievance procedure for resolution of complaints by persons who believe they have been subjected to discrimination based upon their disability. All grievances and appeals for the denial of auxiliary services must be addressed to the director at the University of Miami, Office of Disability Services. Information may be emailed to disabilityservices@miami.edu or mailed to P.O. Box 249003, Coral Gables, Florida. 33124. All grievances must be submitted in writing and include the name, address, contact information for the complainant. The individual must set forth specific facts in support of his/her complaint. All grievances must be signed by the student or individual. Grievances must be filed within ten (10) days after the student receives notification that their request for auxiliary aids and services or other modifications has been denied by the University. Grievances with the Office of Civil Rights must be filed within 90 days of the alleged discriminatory event. All additional documentation regarding your appeal must be submitted at the time of the individual's appeal request. The grievance will be reviewed and adjudicated by the Director of the Camner Center, or her designee (the "Director"). The designee will not be the same individual who made the initial determination as to the request for auxiliary aids, services, or other modifications or accommodations. An investigation, if deemed appropriate by the Director, will be conducted by the Director following receipt of the grievance. The Director may review information and documentation contained in a student's file and/or any other information pertaining to a request. Within twenty (20) days of the receipt of the grievance, the grieving party will receive a written decision via email from the Director. The decision of the Director shall be considered the final decision on the matter. Retaliation against a person who files a grievance, or opposes a policy he/she believes to be discriminatory, is prohibited. Individuals, who believe that they were subjected to discrimination on the basis of disability by the University of Miami, are encouraged to use the grievance procedure to resolve their concerns. Individuals may, however, wish to file a complaint directly with the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 61 Forsyth St., Southwest, Suite 19T10 Atlanta, Georgia, 30303 (404) 562-6350. To file a complaint with the State of Florida, send letter to: Commission for Independent Education 325 W. Gaines Street, Suite 1414 Tallahassee, FL. 32399-0400. Or E-mail: cieinfo@fldoe.org Or Fax: 850-245-3238. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Camner Center for Academic Resources 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Building, Second Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2800 305-284-2800 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices