Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Us Contact Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Search Additional Resources Be A Tutor About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops Additional Resources Be A Tutor About Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Policies & Procedures Home Tutoring Services be-a-tutor AAA Be A Tutor Additional Resources Be A Tutor The University of Miami’s tutors are a core component of the Camner Center for Academic Resources. Tutors are highly-trained and provide content area instruction to enable students to succeed at their college coursework. Students interested in becoming part of the Camner Center team must meet the following requirements. Apply Now Minimum Qualifications: Applicant must have completed at least one semester at the University of Miami. Applicant must maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher. Applicant must have earned a grade of A or better in whichever courses they are applying to tutor Applicant must be in good judicial standing at the University of Miami (i.e. currently enrolled in classes). If accepted, you will be required to be available for a MINIMUM of 10 hours each week of the semester. Please read through the application carefully and follow all instructions. If you have any additional questions regarding the application process, please email tutoring.arc@miami.edu. Tutor Training The peer tutoring program at the Camner Center for Academic Resources is certified by the College Reading & Learning Association (CRLA). This helps ensure that all peer tutors are equipped with a set of standard instructional methods and an understanding of the learning process. All new and returning tutors are required to attend basic training on the policies and procedures of the Camner Center for Academic Resources Tutors are required to complete CRLA Level I certification. Tutors then have the option of completing CRLA Level II certification. CRLA Level I Certification CRLA Level II Certification The 10-hour CLRA Level I Certification must include: Basic training workshop Complete 25 tutoring hours Tutor evaluation Five (5) Academic Workshops Two (2) Educational videos The 10-hour CLRA Level II Certification must include: Complete Level I training Minimum of 25 tutoring hours beyond CRLA Level 1 Excellent evaluations by Tutoring Coordinator University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Camner Center for Academic Resources 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Building, Second Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2800 305-284-2800 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices