Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Us Contact Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Search Academic Accommodations Faculty Information for Accommodating Students in Online Courses Course Substitutions/Waivers Adaptive Equipment About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops Academic Accommodations Faculty Information for Accommodating Students in Online Courses Course Substitutions/Waivers Adaptive Equipment About Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Policies & Procedures Home Office of Disability Services Accommodations Academic Accommodations AAA Academic Accommodations Academic Accommodations Faculty Information for Accommodating Students in Online Courses Course Substitutions/Waivers Adaptive Equipment Academic Accommodations Extended time for exams and in-class written assignments is the most commonly recommended testing accommodation because of its relevance to most disabilities. The most typical accommodation is extended time for tests. Extended time does not mean "unlimited time" or "untimed tests." ODS allows extended time in increments of time and one-half or double time. Increments are based on functional limitations described in the documentation. Most students who are allowed extra time will receive time and one-half. Extra time may be alloted for in class assignments , essays, or quizzes. A distraction-reduced testing location is an effective accommodation for students with neurological, psychological, or attention deficit disorders. A distraction-reduced location should be free of ringing telephones, conversation, and traffic. Note-takers or access to a shared copy of class notes may be used for students who are visually-impaired, hearing-impaired, mobility-impaired, and students with learning disabilities. A Reader may be used for students who are visually-impaired or who have a severe reading disorder. Readers provided by ODS are staff members or graduate students who are trained to read examination material in such a manner that they do not influence the choice of answers by tone or inflection or other means. A Scribe may be needed by students with visual-impairments, who are quadriplegic, or who have cerebral palsy or other fine motor coordination difficulties. Scribes are trained to type or write only what is being said by the student and not to embellish in any manner nor to distract the student being tested. Tape recording lectures is an effective accommodation for students who are visually-impaired, mobility-impaired, or who have learning disabilities. If an instructor has a special concern about permitting the tape-recording of lectures (e.g. the confidential nature of class material), he/she should discuss these concerns with ODS. Typing exams on a word-processor may be used for students with specific learning disabilities or students with fine motor coordination difficulties who are able to type but not write by hand. Enlarged exams, test materials, or handouts may be needed by students with visual impairments. If an instructor needs assistance with providing enlarged material, he/she should contact ODS. Select Seating in Class may be an effective accommodation for students with hearing impairments or attention deficit disorders who find sitting at the front of the class minimizes distractions or for students with physical or medical conditions who may need to be seated near exits. No Scantron sheets for exams is a requested accommodation for students with visual impairments, dyslexia, or fine motor difficulties which interfere with the student's ability to correctly mark a Scantron sheet. In these instances, it is helpful if the student is allowed to circle answers directly on the exam sheet University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Camner Center for Academic Resources 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Building, Second Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2800 305-284-2800 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices