Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Us Contact Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Search Accommodation Policies Responsibilities Grievance Procedure Confidentiality Federal Laws & Legal Precedents About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops Accommodation Policies Responsibilities Grievance Procedure Confidentiality Federal Laws & Legal Precedents About Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Policies & Procedures Home Office of Disability Services Policies and Procedures Responsibilities AAA Responsibilities Accommodation Policies Responsibilities Grievance Procedure Confidentiality Federal Laws & Legal Precedents Student Responsibilities: Self-identifying a disability and asking for accommodation are personal decisions. If a student requests accommodations at the University of Miami, he or she is responsible for completing the process of registering with the Office of Disability Services. It is up to the student to take the initiative and remain actively involved in the accommodation process. If there are concerns about this process, ODS encourages students to call or stop by for a confidential review of the options available. Students seeking reasonable accommodations must: Register with ODS by submitting the Accommodations Request Form along with current and complete documentation in accordance with the deadlines for each semester. Respond to correspondence sent to your University of Miami email account. E-mail is the official form of communication for all ODS correspondence, unless otherwise notified. Correspondence will be sent to your UM e-mail account for current students or the specified alternative e-mail account listed on your accommodation request form for incoming freshman. It is the student's responsibility to forward e-mails to private accounts via MyUM to avoid missing pertinent information and deadlines. Decisions regarding accommodations requests will be sent via U.S. mail to the address listed on the request form as a courtesy. Appeal deadlines are based on the official e-mail correspondence date. Promptly Notify ODS whenever there are concerns, questions or a change in needs. Conduct themselves in a respectful and professional manner. Issues of student conduct are automatically reported to the Dean of Students Office. Student Responsibilities when accommodations are granted: Students must complete updated contact information each fall. The Accommodation Letter from ODS will be emailed to students once the contact information is updated and all applicable forms are returned to ODS. Accommodation Letters must be provided to instructors during the first two weeks of class to receive accommodations. Accommodation letters presented to faculty without notice may result in the denial of those accommodations for upcoming exams. Students are responsible for informing ODS in writing regarding any changes in their condition or needs. Students are responsible for informing ODS of any issues with accommodations, faculty, or campus accessibility. Using the ODS Testing Facilities: Students must obtain written approval from the professor prior to scheduling an exam. Students must provide accurate information about the date, time, and course seven (7) days prior to the date of the exam. ODS is not able to proctor last minute exams for faculty or students. Students must arrive on time for exams. Late arrivals for testing appointments will reduce the allotted time for an exam. Students must bring the appropriate materials for their exam. ODS is not responsible for providing calculators, models, or any other materials. ODS Responsibilities: ODS will provide Accommodation Letters for students at the beginning of each academic year. ODS may provide testing accommodations during regular operating hours when the instructor cannot provide the accommodations. ODS will contact the instructor prior to the exam date to obtain instructions on how the exam is to be obtained, administered, and returned to the instructor. ODS will provide testing accommodations according to instructors written directions. Variations will not be allowed without direct approval from the instructor. ODS will not allow students to bring the following items into an exam: Books or other written materials (Notes, note cards, etc.) Backpacks or purses Hats Cell phones Watches Calculators (unless approved by the instructor) All scratch paper is collected and returned to the professor. ODS will return the exam to the instructor’s office or department within 24 hours. ODS will report to instructor any variances in exam administration. ODS will report every instance of cheating or suspected cheating to the professor and Dean of Students. ODS will monitor all testing sessions via closed circuit cameras. Instructor Responsibilities: Instructor will approve the date and time of the exam in writing. Instructor will respond to ODS requests for test arrangements within 48 hours. Instructor will agree to provide the exam no later than 5pm the day before the exam is scheduled. Instructor will deliver the exam to ODS or make the exam available for pick-up 24 hours prior to the date the exam is scheduled. Instructor will direct any questions or concerns regarding testing accommodations to ODS. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Camner Center for Academic Resources 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Building, Second Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2800 305-284-2800 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices