Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Us Contact Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Search Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative New ILI Participant Application Workshops About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative New ILI Participant Application Workshops About Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Policies & Procedures Home Learning Specialist Independent Learning Initiative AAA Independent Learning Initiative Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative New ILI Participant Application Workshops The Independent Learning Initiative is an academic support program that provides structure, instruction, and monitoring for students needing additional guidance during the college experience. During the semester, students will identify and understand their academic strengths and areas for growth, as well as learn strategies, skills, and technologies to enhance their academic and personal success in college. Students learn to monitor their academic progress and critically evaluate skills and strategies to work toward becoming an effective, independent student. Students in the program are assigned to a learning specialist familiar with the University of Miami and implications of learning differences. The learning specialist helps students develop a routine for the semester while teaching effective strategies to help them monitor and manage their own academic progress. Apply Here Individualized Attention The Independent Learning Initiative is designed to foster a relationship between a learning specialist and student to assist them with the challenges of the college environment. A learning specialist assigned to a student delivers one-on-one guidance and support by helping them stay on track and resolve problems. A student meets with the learning specialist each week for one hour to work on a learning plan that is specifically tailored to the student's needs. The learning specialist helps coordinate campus resources, facilitates communication with advisors and faculty, encourages strong study routines, and provides study strategy instruction. The specialist works with faculty to obtain feedback that can be used to modify study habits or academic behaviors that are not effective. Each student receives individualized assistance to help master necessary skills and achieve the academic independence needed to be successful in college. Students work with their learning specialist to develop academic objectives each semester. A mid-term progress report provides the opportunity to address academic concerns before final grades are assigned. Every student receives a detailed mid-term progress report including current grades and attendance. The learning specialist is available to help the student overcome daily challenges associated with independence and the college experience. Program Services Program services include weekly meetings with a learning specialist starting the first week of classes and continuing through final exams. At the first meeting, students create a semester schedule to develop a regular study routine. The learning specialist coordinates tutoring services, academic workshops, and technology options to enhance student progress while providing weekly follow-up of important dates and deadlines. The learning specialist assists students with course registration, determining the days of the week and class times that best fit his or her needs and learning style. Ultimately, classes are selected by the students and their academic advisors. The learning specialist can also coordinate the use of campus resources to support academic progress. Conditions of Participation A student must be admitted to the University of Miami through the regular admissions process to be eligible for the Independent Learning Initiative. The choice of participating in the Independent Learning Initiative is not a condition of acceptance into the University of Miami, nor does it guarantee admission. Documentation of a disability is not a requirement for enrollment in the program. Cost The Independent Learning Initiative goes beyond the standard academic support provided by the Camner Center for Academic Resources. The cost of participation is equivalent to 1 credit hour of tuition. Students do not receive course credit for participating in this program. Click Here to download the digital brochure for the Independent Learning Initiative. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Camner Center for Academic Resources 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Building, Second Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2800 305-284-2800 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices