Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Us Contact Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Search About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops Tutoring Services Additional Resources Be A Tutor About Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Policies & Procedures Home Tutoring Services AAA Camner Center Tutoring provides peer-to-peer tutoring support for registered undergraduates at no cost. Our goal is to offer students academic assistance through knowledgeable, trustworthy, and trained peer tutors. Camner Center tutors offer a wide range of subjects that span many different majors and concentrations. Students can work with tutors to review course materials, master challenging concepts, or improve upon their skillset. Tutoring will be accessible on a one-on-one basis with limited availability for group and drop-in tutoring. Camner Center tutoring appointments will take place in person with limited virtual availability. All Camner Center tutoring appointments are free of charge for registered undergraduate UM students. Select one of the options below to learn more about booking and attending your appointment. Scheduled Appointments Drop-In tutoring Canceling an Appointment Tutoring Appointment Policies Book an Appointment 1. Login to Navigate using your Cane ID and password. 2. Select the blue Make an Appointment button on the right-hand side. 3. On the left-hand side, input Camner Tutoring then Course-based Tutoring then select the blue Find Available Time button 4. Select any of the blue courses underneath one of our locations listed on the right-hand side of the screen. Note: If you do not see a course linked in blue, we do not have a tutor available for that course. 5. Select any open timeslot, and remember to note the location (SSB, Richter Library, or Virtual) 6. Review the appointment details & write your course topics in the comment box then select the blue Schedule button. 7. Location and appointment details will be included in the confirmation email. Drop-in tutoring will be offered virtually in a limited capacity. See below for the course offerings, dates & times for drop-in tutoring. No need to book an appointment for Drop-in tutoring. Simply wait until the scheduled time listed below and then follow the steps listed. Drop-in tutoring is for quick help with a few questions or topics you may be struggling with. If you will require more than 15 minutes of assistance, please schedule an appointment. Drop-in Tutoring Schedule The Fall 2021 Drop-In Tutoring schedule will be available soon. Joining a virtual Drop-in tutoring Session 1. Login to Navigate using your Cane ID and password. 2. Select the blue Make an Appointment button on the right-hand side. 3. Select View Drop-in Times underneath the Other Appointment Option section on the right 4. Input Camner Tutoring then Course-based Tutoring then select the blue Find Available Time button 5. Select Virtual Meeting – Camner on the right-hand side 6. Select your course then select Check-in with First Available then select the Messages icon at the top 7. Wait for a message from the tutor with the Zoom link to join (this can take some time if there are students ahead of you in the queue). 8. Once a tutor sends you a message, select the Zoom meeting room link. This will take you to the Zoom meeting room and a tutor will place you in an individual breakout room and begin answering your questions. Keep in mind that the tutor will be traveling back and forth between breakout rooms to help all students. All appointments must be canceled 24 hours prior to start time through Navigate. Appointments cannot be canceled through email, phone, or by a tutor. Failure to properly cancel your appointment will result in the tutor marking you as a no-show. Cancelling your appointment within the 24-hour window will result in a late cancel. You can read more about no-shows and late cancels in the Tutoring Appointment Policies tab. To cancel your appointment: 1. Login to Navigate using your Cane ID and password. 2. Select the appointment under the Upcoming Appointments section on the right-hand side. 3. Select Cancel Appointment. For One-on-One and Group tutoring services, students are allowed to book up to 4 appointments at a time. No Show & Late Cancellation Policy Students that do not show within the first 20 minutes of the scheduled appointment will be marked a no-show. Students who cancel their appointment within 24 hours of the scheduled start time will be marked a late cancel. Students are allowed three (3) no-show and/or late cancels combined per semester before they are locked out of the booking system indefinitely and all remaining appointment will be cancelled. Reinstatement Policy Students that have accumulated three offenses can email tutoring.arc@miami.edu to request a meeting with the Assistant Director for possible reinstatement. The email must include your full name, C-number, cell phone, email address, course and section, and a full explanation of the reason for the No-Show. The Assistant Director of the Peer Tutoring Program reserves the right to restrict the use of tutoring services if a student continually misuses or disregards program policy. Additional Information Be a Tutor Camner Center Tutors are highly-trained and provide content area instruction to enable students to succeed at their college course work. Learn More More Academic Resources Tutoring may not be the right choice to reach your academic goals. Luckily, there are a variety of other campus resources available to get you the assistance you need. Learn More Frequently Asked Questions Open All Tabs Are tutors always available? Tutoring appointments are available on a first come basis. Tutor availability, times, days, and subject areas change every semester. Students should schedule appointments early in the semester and prior to the day of an exam. Tutors may not be available for some upper-level courses. The Camner Center staff will work with the student to suggest alternative options. The Assistant Director of Tutoring is constantly recruiting tutors based on incoming requests. The Camner Center and University of Miami does not guarantee that tutors will be available for every subject or specific times. Please note: Tutoring is not offered during the summer term. What if there are no matching times for the subject I requested? Students are encouraged to provide as much availability as possible when requesting tutoring. Students may check with the front desk for weekly openings and cancellations. Camner Center staff will continue to attempt to book an appointment time while a request remains pending. Is there private tutoring available? Tutoring at the Camner Center is conducted one-on-one with the student. Tutoring outside the Camner Center is not endorsed by the center's administrators or tutors. Students are encouraged to check with their departments or School/Colleges for other tutoring options. Information for non-UM students can be requested at the Office of Continuing Studies (305) 284-6107, SAT Prep (305) 386-5511, or the School of Education (305) 284-3711. How can I become a tutor? A student is eligible to be a tutor if he/she has completed one semester at UM with a minimum of 3.0 GPA. Students may apply to become a tutor by completing a Tutor Application packet online. Only complete application packets will be reviewed and considered by the Assistant Director of Tutoring. What do I do if my tutor no-showed? Tutors must notify students with 24 hours notice if they will not attend their appointment. Students have the option of rescheduling with their same tutor for another time during the week, scheduling an appointment with another tutor, or they can wait for their next weekly appointment with their tutor. How do I handle an issue with my tutor? The student should speak with the tutoring coordinator after the appointment and inform them of the specific concern. The tutoring coordinator will assist the student in rescheduling tutoring appointments with another tutor. Students may also cancel all future appointments at the front desk and then request to be rescheduled with another tutor. Does the Camner Center offer support with study skills? Students may request an appointment with a learning specialist and indicate study skills assistance needed. A learning specialist will contact the student with availability and to schedule an appointment. Does the Camner Center help with writing papers? The Writing Center typically assists students with the writing process. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Camner Center for Academic Resources 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Building, Second Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2800 305-284-2800 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices