Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Us Contact Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Search Access to Residential Areas Assistance Animals Accessibility Committee Parking & Transportation Library Assistance Wheelchair Stairlift About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops Access to Residential Areas Assistance Animals Accessibility Committee Parking & Transportation Library Assistance Wheelchair Stairlift About Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Policies & Procedures Home Office of Disability Services Campus Accessibility Access to Residential Areas AAA Access to Residential Areas Access to Residential Areas Assistance Animals Accessibility Committee Parking & Transportation Library Assistance Wheelchair Stairlift The Department of Housing and Residential life has policies in place which address the accessibility of residence areas for students. ODS works with the Department of Housing and Residential life to provide information on resources or equipment to provide access for a student with a disability. Special housing requests must be submitted to the Office of Disability Services two weeks prior to the housing deadline for the semester in which you are requesting the accommodation. Please visit the housing website for specific housing deadlines - Housing Website Link. Special Housing Accommodation Requests A student may request a Special Housing Accommodation based on disability or a medical condition. In order to request a Special Housing Accommodation, the following guidelines must be followed: Register for housing through the Department of Housing and Residential life. Indicate any special needs on the housing application and complete the University of Miami Adapted Housing Checklist. Complete and submit the Accommodation Request Form. Please clearly identify the accommodation is being requested in residence. All students must request housing accommodations before assignments are made. Once housing has assigned students, ODS may not be able to make changes. Please contact the Office of Housing for the exact date pertaining to incoming students or returning students. Submit current and complete documentation as outlined under Documentation Guidelines. Once complete documentation has been received, the Office of Disability Services will forward the request to the Housing Accommodations Committee. The Special Housing Accommodations Committee will review each request. Written notification is sent to the student and Office of Housing and Residential Life. Incomplete requests will not be reviewed. Students requesting a Special Housing Accommodation are responsible for meeting all housing deadlines set forth by the Department of Housing and Residential life. Submitting documentation to our office does not guarantee that a specific request will be granted. Students should proceed with regular housing sign up until notified that a special accommodation has been granted. All housing accommodations are individually determined and based on availability. All applicable fees are not refundable if accommodations are not submitted prior to the deadline for submitting documentation. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Camner Center for Academic Resources 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Building, Second Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2800 305-284-2800 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices