Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Us Contact Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Search About Disability Services Login to Accommodate Accommodations Request Accommodations Documentation Accessibility Disability Services Policies & Procedures About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Disability Services Login to Accommodate Accommodations Request Accommodations Documentation Accessibility Disability Services Policies & Procedures About Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Policies & Procedures Home Office of Disability Services Log In to Accommodate AAA Log In to Accommodate About Disability Services Login to Accommodate Accommodations Request Accommodations Documentation Accessibility Disability Services Policies & Procedures Log In to Accommodate How-To Guides students Log in to Accommodate Watch the Video students Submit a Semester Request Watch the Video students Schedule an Exam Review the Guide watch the video Faculty Approve an Exam Request Review the Guide Accommodations Request Software Submit Accommodations Request Form View Approved Accommodations Request Professor Memos Schedule Exams with the Office of Disability Services (ODS) Student Test Booking Students are encouraged to book exams well in advance because seating at ODS is limited and reserved based on availability showing in Accommodate. Exams must be booked at least 7 days in advance through Accommodate and are based on availability. Arrangements for online exam accommodations are coordinated with the professor and not proctored through ODS. Student Responsibilities Schedule exams at least 7 days in advance Contact instructors to approve the exam request within 72 hours of the request or it will be canceled by the Office of Disability Services (ODS) Please review ODS Testing Roles and Responsibilities Exam Start Times Semester Exams 9 a.m. 11 .am. 1 p.m. 3 p.m. Final Exams 8 a.m. 1 p.m. Instructor Responsibilities: Approve/deny exam requests AND complete exam proctoring questions in Accommodate within 72 hours. Upload exam in Accommodate at least 24 hours in advance of exam date. ODS will attempt to contact a professor by email when exams are not submitted 24 hours in advance. However, ODS will cancel requests when exams are not submitted by an instructor with adequate time. Students are directed back to the instructor. If you have any questions about your accommodations, please don’t hesitate to reach out to our office at disabilityservices@miami.edu. We are here to support you through this time of transition and are happy to help you navigate any questions or concerns you may have. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Camner Center for Academic Resources 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Building, Second Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2800 305-284-2800 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices