Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Us Contact Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Search About Disability Services Login to Accommodate Accommodations Request Accommodations Eligibility for Accommodations Documentation Accessibility Disability Services Policies & Procedures About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Disability Services Login to Accommodate Accommodations Request Accommodations Eligibility for Accommodations Documentation Accessibility Disability Services Policies & Procedures About Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Policies & Procedures Home Office of Disability Services Request Accommodations AAA Request Accommodations About Disability Services Login to Accommodate Accommodations Request Accommodations Eligibility for Accommodations Documentation Accessibility Disability Services Policies & Procedures Deadlines to Request Accommodations Accommodations requests for housing, emotional support animals, and parking must be submitted prior to the deadline to provide adequate time to coordinate. Late requests will be held and processed for the next term. Fall semester: June 1* Spring semester: December 1 Summer semesters: six weeks prior to the first day of class *The deadline to request accommodations for the Fall 2021 semester closed on June 1, however, our office is now able to begin accepting requests again. Please note that we cannot guarantee that accommodation requests submitted after the deadline will be in place by the first day of classes. Requesting Accommodations: 1. Review documentation requirements All documentation must be submitted with your request form. Documents must be current, complete, and follow the criteria outlined on our website. Review and processing times will be delayed for requests submitted with incomplete documentation and/or without uploading complete and comprehensive information. 2. Gather your email and 'Cane ID Be sure you have your University email address and 'Cane ID number (C#######) 3. Complete the request form Collect all necessary documentation and complete the Accommodations Request Form. Once our team has reviewed your submission, you will receive an email to your University account regarding the next steps. Please continually check your UM email as we conduct our reviews. Supplemental Requests The supplemental request process allows students the opportunity to provide new and different information for consideration when there is a significant change in their medical or psychological conditions. Students are not able to use this process to resubmit the same information for consideration of previously denied accommodations. Adhering to the deadlines, students must submit the request in writing and provide a detailed explanation for the request. Supplemental requests are reviewed in the order received and may not be considered until the following semester if a student has previously been through the review process for a given semester or is submitting after the deadline. To submit a supplemental request: 1. Email disabilityservices@miami.edu to request a supplemental review. 2. Upload new documentation into Accommodate. 3. Upload a written statement including: What additional accommodations are you requesting? Describe the changes in your condition for requesting additional accommodations. Contact our office at disabilityservices@miami.edu if you have any questions. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Camner Center for Academic Resources 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Building, Second Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2800 305-284-2800 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices