Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Us Contact Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Search About Disability Services Login to Accommodate Accommodations Request Accommodations Documentation ADHD Documentation Learning Disabilities Documentation Psychological Documentation Medical Documentation Accessibility Disability Services Policies & Procedures About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Disability Services Login to Accommodate Accommodations Request Accommodations Documentation ADHD Documentation Learning Disabilities Documentation Psychological Documentation Medical Documentation Accessibility Disability Services Policies & Procedures About Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Policies & Procedures Home Office of Disability Services Documentation AAA Documentation About Disability Services Login to Accommodate Accommodations Request Accommodations Documentation ADHD Documentation Learning Disabilities Documentation Psychological Documentation Medical Documentation Accessibility Disability Services Policies & Procedures The Office of Disabilities requires current and complete documentation to determine reasonable accommodations. This includes, but is not limited to, a diagnosis of a current disability, the date of the diagnosis, how the diagnosis was reached, the credentials of the diagnosing professional and how the disability affects a major life activity. Each case is individualized and the documentation may vary based on the condition and severity. All documentation is evaluated consistent with the language and requirements of all current and applicable statutes and regulations. Please refer to the documentation guidelines for medical conditions, psychological or mental health issues, learning disorders, and disorders of attention (ADD/ADHD). Documentation will only be reviewed once it is complete. Students are notified by email if additional documentation is necessary. It is the student’s responsibility to submit this information prior to the established deadlines to ensure sufficient time for the review process and coordination of services. Academic accommodations are not applied retroactively and may only be provided to students registered with ODS. As required by law, ODS maintains the confidentiality of all records. Students are responsible for monitoring their email account for the receipt of important information pertaining to their accommodations. Students are notified by email of the official decision. Alternative forms of the documentation guidelines may be requested by contacting the office. Services of a personal nature, such as readers for personal use or assistance in eating or dressing, are not provided as accommodations. The office staff will refer students to outside offices or agencies to assist in providing non-academic or personal services. ODS will not provide any accommodations until all essential documentation has been submitted and students participate in an interactive and collaborative process. Students seeking services from the Office of Disabilities should review the following points: In granting accommodations, the University of Miami follows and abides by all applicable statutes and regulations. Accommodations are provided individually, not as a package, and are based on the student's disability, the student's individual needs, and the attendant documentation. The University of Miami will not grant accommodations that fundamentally alter the nature of a course of study or that constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of the student or University community. The fact that other accommodations were granted at other institutions does not guarantee the same accommodation will be granted at the University of Miami. Accommodations must be requested through ODS prior to June 1st for the fall semester and prior to December 1st for the spring semester. Accommodations for summer and intersession courses must be submitted 6 weeks prior to the first day of classes. These deadlines are in place to provide sufficient time to review the information and allow for the coordination of any granted accommodations prior to the first day of class. All requests are processed in the order that they are received. Longer delays will apply for incomplete documentation. Requests for accommodations received after the deadline will be reviewed but a decision may not be reached prior to the start of the semester. The student is responsible for submitting the Accommodation Request Form along with comprehensive documentation. Request forms without accompanying documentation will not be reviewed. Freshmen are advised to submit documentation immediately after being accepted to the University. Accommodations are not granted on a retroactive basis. The University of Miami does not have a comprehensive learning disabilities program, or any other disability-specific program, but examines an individual's needs on a case-by-case basis to provide reasonable accommodations and a system of support services to address those needs. Requirement: Medical Documentation Psychological Documentation Learning Disability Documentation ADHD Documentation University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Camner Center for Academic Resources 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Building, Second Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2800 305-284-2800 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices