Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops About Us Contact Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Search Accommodation Policies Responsibilities Grievance Procedure Confidentiality Federal Laws & Legal Precedents About Us Meet the Staff History and Awards Additional Resources Contact Us Contact Information Work with Us Request a Workshop Request a Sponsorship Disability Services Accommodations Request Accomodations Log In to Accommodate Documentation Disability Services Policies & Procedures Tutoring Services Be A Tutor More Academic Resources Learning Specialist Request An Appointment Independent Learning Initiative Workshops Accommodation Policies Responsibilities Grievance Procedure Confidentiality Federal Laws & Legal Precedents About Us Disability Services Tutoring Services Learning Specialist Policies & Procedures Home Office of Disability Services Policies and Procedures Accommodation Policies AAA Accommodation Policies Accommodation Policies Responsibilities Grievance Procedure Confidentiality Federal Laws & Legal Precedents The Office of Disability Services (ODS) has a small testing center located within the Camner Center. The testing center staff can proctor exams for faculty providing the policies and procedures are followed in scheduling and arranging exams. Faculty have the right to provide accommodations in the classroom or make arrangements directly with the student. The testing center is service provided to faculty and students to assist in providing accommodations. It is not required that student take their exams with our office unless directed by the faculty. Below is a list of the common accommodations the testing center provides: Extended Time Exams proctored at ODS will be administered on the same day and time as the exam scheduled. Exceptions are made on a case-by-case basis when other classes conflict with the extra time allowance or the class time is beyond the operating hours of the testing center. Arrangements for ODS to proctor an exam for a faculty member and student must be made 7 days in advance of the exam and is based on availability. Quiet Testing Location Smaller group testing rooms and a limited number of individual rooms are available to reduce the distractions for students. Every effort is made to reduce distractions; however, there is no guarantee than an environment is completely free from all distractions. It is the responsibility of the student to notify the ODS staff or faculty immediately if any environment presents a distraction. Testing seats are scheduled on a first come, first serve basis. Use of a Computer ODS may provide secure computers for a student. Instructors may also provide this accommodation within the department. This accommodation requires advance scheduling and notification to ODS. Scribe ODS may provide a scribe to write a student's answers or type them on a word-processor. Scribes are instructed to write only what is dictated by the student. This accommodation requires advance scheduling with ODS. Reader for Exams Students with this accommodation are provided access to screen reader software during exams. Readers do not provide any additional information or guidance to a student during an exam. This accommodation requires advance scheduling with ODS. Notes A copy of course PowerPoint slides, instructor outlines, or peers notes, are made available to students with this accommodation. Students with this accommodation are responsible for requesting class notes prior to the semester deadline and notifying ODS if notes are not received in a timely manner. Students must attend class to receive notes as this accommodation is not a substitute for attending class. Electronic Textbooks Most textbooks are available in electronic formats from the publisher and online vendors. However, for some students it is critical that all materials are available in a format that can be used with screen reading software. ODS staff work with these individuals to provide electronic formats for any materials that are not available through publishers or online. This accommodation can take up to 8 weeks to secure electronic format texts, so advance notice is required. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Camner Center for Academic Resources 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Building, Second Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2800 305-284-2800 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices