Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom College of Engineering and Computer Science Harnessing the transformative power and potential of the engineering sciences, College of Engineering and Computer Science students explore technical possibilities and innovate solutions, preparing them to pursue global careers, advanced degrees or entrepreneurial endeavors. U.S. News & World Report ranks the college among the nation’s best for its online graduate programs in software engineering and environmental engineering. To stay on the forefront of meeting the growing demand for educated technical professionals, the college seeks to create new space to enhance our physical learning environment, recruit and retain the best and brightest faculty and accelerate the preparation of our workforce-ready graduates. Together, we can provide more immersive experiences that deepen learning, spark innovation and engage the next generation of STEM students. Together, we can empower our Titans to solve today’s problems and those of tomorrow. Here's how you can be the difference Build a New Home for ECS Champion STEM Majors and Technological Entrepreneurship Increase Hands-On Learning in ECS For more information, contact: Michael Karg Executive Director of Development 657-278-3348 | mkarg@fullerton.edu This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU