About Video Expanding Access to Business Education Building Capabilities of Tomorrow’s Leaders Guiding Career Journeys TAG News About Video Investment Priorities Expanding Access to Business Education Building Capabilities of Tomorrow’s Leaders Guiding Career Journeys TAG News Give Now The Tuck Difference About The Campaign We believe the world needs a special kind of leadership — the kind that only Tuck creates. To secure our place as a leader in the world of graduate management education, we are targeting historic investments to expand access to business education, build capabilities of tomorrow’s leaders, and guide career journeys. This is our moment. Join us. Back Ways to Give Your gift to support our campaign priorities and initiatives can take a variety of forms. Our team is excited to help you choose the giving opportunity that is the best fit for what is important to you. Leadership Giving Securing our competitive advantage depends on significant philanthropic investments in Tuck’s long-term financial stability. Donors considering making a major gift may direct their support toward any area that matches their personal interests with the needs and priorities of the school. Tuck’s Leadership Giving team is looking forward to helping you shape the gift opportunity that is right for you. Email 603-646-9186 Tuck Annual Giving TAG is a powerful means to make immediate impact. Annual funds provide flexible current- and future-use support for everything from Tuck’s core operation to our most cutting-edge innovations and strategic priorities. Donors can designate their gift to highest priorities, student scholarship support, faculty support, or inclusive leadership and are encouraged to make an annual commitment. Members of the TAG team are available to help decide what level is appropriate for you. Give online Email 800-228-1769 or 603-646-3621 Legacy Giving Including Tuck in your estate plans is a wonderful way to make a lasting gift to Tuck. These legacy gifts ensure that future generations of Tuck graduates will have the same transformative educational experience you did and provide stability for Tuck’s long-term planning. To learn more about the various ways to include Tuck in your estate plans, contact Tara Goodman, Senior Associate Director, Gift Planning. Email 603-646-8842 Corporate Giving Alliances with corporate donors build upon complementary strengths and the objectives of each partner, including access to our talented students. Corporate donors provide funding for facilities, endowed professorships, and student financial aid. These gifts have proven to be indispensable for the school, which offers recognition opportunities for donors. To learn more about partnering with Tuck, contact Katherine R. Norton, Director, Dartmouth Office for Corporate and Foundation Relations, Dartmouth College. Email 603-646-2865 Contact Us Make a Gift Today WATCH OUR CAMPAIGN LAUNCH VIDEO Expanding Access to Business Education Everything depends on the excellence of our community. Our vision is to support talent and diversity throughout all of Tuck’s programs and open new avenues to business education. Strategic Initiatives Student Scholarships Tuck-Dartmouth Joint Programs Tuck Diversity Business & Next Step Programs Learn more Back Expanding Access to Business Education Everything depends on the excellence of our community. Our vision is to support talent and diversity throughout all of Tuck’s programs and open new avenues to business education. STUDENT SCHOLARSHIPS* Competition for the very best MBA students has never been so fierce. Top schools are offering more and larger scholarships to admits than ever before. Expanding our financial support is critical to recruiting smart, accomplished students who continue our traditions of excellence and will help take Tuck to new heights. TUCK-DARTMOUTH JOINT PROGRAMS Investment is needed to capitalize on the immense potential for joint programs that exists across the Dartmouth College campus. Strategic investments can generate new curricular offerings, entrepreneurship programs, and social impact initiatives that will leverage research, knowledge and methodologies across disciplines and promote a shared sense of community. Needs: Student Scholarships: Demand for Tuck’s Business Bridge program has soared amid the pandemic, but so too has the financial need of undergraduate students hoping to participate in Bridge and similar Tuck-Dartmouth programs. MBA Program Associates: Tuck MBA students serving as program associates are instrumental to the success of undergraduate students enrolled in programs like Bridge and TuckLAB. MBA students manage study groups, provide highly valued academic support, and in partnership with Tuck’s Career Services Office, career mentoring. Program Innovation: Opportunities abound for Tuck to tap into growing interest among Dartmouth undergraduates for practical business studies through new programs like specialized TuckLAB for E-Ship or Athletes and pilot programs for Engineering and Computer Science. TUCK DIVERSITY BUSINESS & NEXT STEP PROGRAMS Visionary leaders and firms play an essential role in creating jobs, championing innovation, growing wealth and improving the conditions for a flourishing society. The advantage and potential for lasting impact lies with those leaders and firms that step to the forefront and take action to meaningfully move the needle on equity and representation in business. Investments to support participant scholarships for Tuck’s Diversity Business and Next Step Programs, the MBA associates who help run these offerings, and innovations to take these pioneering programs to the next level will fundamentally change lives, advance career trajectories, and improve representation in industry leadership. Needs: Participant Scholarships: Scholarship or sponsorship support plays a critical role in expanding access to business education, advancing the career trajectories of program participants, and improving representation in industry leadership. MBA Associates: Tuck MBA students serving as program associates provide mentorship, consult on real-life business issues, offer highly valued academic support, and in partnership with Tuck’s Career Services Office, career guidance. Program Innovation: Tuck has the opportunity to leverage its pioneering Diversity Business Programs, Next Step, and executive education offerings for women to increase the scale of its social impact like no other top school. Critical to expanding our impact is the development of online programs and post-program career support for participants. To learn more about these initiatives and the impactful opportunities therein, please contact Tuck Advancement. “You have to choose a good environment to be most effective in learning. From that perspective, no other business school can match what Tuck offers. A smaller environment where everyone is learning from and alongside each other, that is the best situation for long-term success.” Kinya Seto T’96, CEO of LIXIL Corporation Building Capabilities of Tomorrow’s Leaders The world needs more Tuck. We seek the most impactful ways to endow students with the necessary soft and hard skills to solve critical societal and business challenges. Strategic Initiatives Learning & Development Initiative Inclusive Leadership Initiative Data Analytics Initiative Learn more Back Building Capabilities of Tomorrow’s Leaders The world needs more Tuck. We are finding the most impactful ways to endow students with the necessary soft and hard skills to solve critical societal and business challenges. LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE* As the needs of learners and the learning environment itself continue to evolve, it is essential that Tuck has the resources to promote effective and innovative teaching in all settings towards our goal of being the best full-time MBA program in the world. Increased funding for personal and professional development will ensure the Tuck community is a place where all are widely supported and encouraged to reach their full potential as people and leaders. Needs: Teaching Infrastructure: Upgraded classrooms allow for seamless digital learning and the introduction of new technologies such as with virtual and augmented reality. Skilled business writers would support faculty to ensure that cases, readings, exercises and all teaching materials are timely and relevant. Faculty Recruitment and Retention: Tuck has long distinguished itself among top business schools by the quality and commitment of its faculty educators. High quality faculty are essential to the success of our students’ learning experience and to the reputation of our school as a whole. It is imperative that Tuck recruit and develop the distinguished scholar-researchers of the future and retain and support an accomplished faculty at the forefront of their respective fields. Personal and Professional Development: Tuck approaches the development of each student holistically and helps them to achieve both their personal and professional potential. A Leadership Coaching Suite would provide a centralized space, resources and activities for professional development while a comprehensive mental health initiative would help students develop practices for their personal well-being, ensuring their ability to thrive when facing modern day challenges. INCLUSIVE LEADERSHIP INITIATIVE Critical to fulfilling our school’s mission is fostering a culture that honors diversity in all its forms, welcomes each person as they are, and provides opportunities to engage in respectful, growth-oriented discussion and learning. The world needs leaders that are empathetic to the life experiences and ideas of others, and proactive in addressing social inequity and injustice. Inclusive leaders promote collaboration and bring people together, creating a sense of shared mission. Needs: Development of Course Materials: Students' academic experience should honor who they are and reflect the composition of today's board rooms, C-suites and organizations as a whole. Updating course materials so that Tuck students are getting the best and most salient cases and lessons is immensely important. Faculty Recruitment and Retention: Recruitment and retention of faculty with deep expertise in inclusive leadership and/or management is critical to preparing tomorrow’s leaders to recognize barriers and biases, to lead diverse teams, and to work across cultures. Students need access to faculty who are at the forefront of inclusive management studies. Talent Development: Just as the world’s best firms must invest in talent development, so too must Tuck. To develop inclusive leaders, Tuck needs to enhance its DEI initiatives as an institution and empower the personal development of faculty and staff through cultural competence assessments, opportunities for applied leadership experiences, and personalized coaching. DATA ANALYTICS INITIATIVE There is tremendous opportunity for business leaders to harness and leverage data more effectively, but success requires familiarity in using the latest analytical tools and the wisdom to apply data effectively and purposefully. By integrating data analytics across the MBA experience, Tuck is deepening students’ understanding and readiness to embrace the critical role of data analytics in strategic decision-making. Needs: Data Infrastructure: Students and faculty need access to data that will promote learning, facilitate research and aid career development. From the popular Bloomberg terminals and subscriptions to more specialized data resources, Tuck needs to be able to purchase, properly store and facilitate all needed data sets. Workshop Series, Conferences, or Case Competitions: The specialized nature of data analytics benefits from individual development of basic skills and advanced applications. Foundational workshops can teach coding and analytics fundamentals, while conferences, case competitions and other activities can promote deeper explorations. Faculty Fellowships: The art and science of data analytics is ever-changing. To stay on the leading edge requires close faculty and industry interactions. Funding is needed to support visiting faculty or skilled practitioners coming to Tuck to teach and be part of the intellectual community. On the flip side, funding is also need to support opportunities for tenure-track faculty to do focused work in data analytics or take on internships or fellowships in industry. To learn more about the initiatives above and the impactful opportunities therein, please contact Tuck Advancement. “Tuck has been a lesson in possibility. I’m leaving emboldened to keep dreaming, confident that I can do anything I set my heart on.” Tolulope Kehinde T’19, Geisel ’19 Guiding Career Journeys Student needs and objectives are varied and often evolve during and after their time at Tuck. The transformative impact of a Tuck education should be manifested over the life and career of all of our students and graduates. Strategic Initiatives Tuck Alumni Life-Long Learning Tuck Centers of Learning, Growth & Impact Learn more Back Guiding Career Journeys Student career objectives are varied and often evolve during and after their time at Tuck. The transformative impact of a Tuck education should be manifested over the life and career of all of our students and graduates. TUCK ALUMNI LIFE-LONG LEARNING* Great leaders are great learners, and it is critical that our alumni stay up-to-date on the latest management thinking and practical applications. Tuck Alumni Lifelong Learning (TALL) strengthens the value of a Tuck education over time by keeping alumni at the forefront of developments in the academic and business worlds. Needs: Infrastructure: TALL would greatly benefit from improved infrastructure and program-delivery platforms, better videography for online offerings, and more interactive options. Program Innovation and Content Development: Focused and specialized programming can be developed to reflect alumni areas of interest and address post-graduation interval needs, e.g. the development of courses and events for alumni five years out, 10 years out, 15 years out, and beyond. Alumni-Sponsored Networking Opportunities: Tuck alumni connect to each other and the school in meaningful, potentially career-enhancing ways. Opportunities for individuals and firms to support these networking events abound. TUCK CENTERS OF LEARNING, GROWTH AND IMPACT Tuck’s centers forge pathways of learning and application for MBA students in industry areas relevant to students, faculty, alumni, and companies alike. The current portfolio of centers provides valuable insight and experiences into digital strategies, energy, healthcare, private equity and venture capital, entrepreneurship, and business, government and society. Centers echo, amplify, and complement Tuck’s core and elective offerings with a variety of cutting-edge events, activities and content. Centers support students in discovering new industries and career paths, offering opportunities outside of the classroom to gain first-hand exposure to various sectors and the timely issues or trends happening therein. To learn more about the initiatives above and the impactful opportunities therein, please contact Tuck Advancement. “Tuck students get an amazing education and receive personalized career support while on campus. We continue our service to them as alumni by providing learning opportunities and custom career resources at every age, every stage—no matter where they are in life.” Heather Law, Associate Director of Alumni Career Services, Alumni Engagement Tuck Annual Giving Accelerating Innovation and Impact Contributions to TAG directly support the priorities of The Tuck Difference campaign: expanding access to business education by supporting talent and diversity across Tuck programs; building capabilities of tomorrow’s leaders through initiatives focused on hard and soft skills—from data analytics to inclusive leadership; and guiding rewarding career journeys for students and alumni alike. The Case for TAG Our goal $10 Million News The Tuck Difference Campaign Surpasses $250 Million Goal As the campaign enters its final phase, Tuck remains focused on three investment priorities—Expanding Access to Business Education, Building Capabilities of Tomorrow’s Leaders, and Guiding Career Journeys. Read More Revers Pledges New Gift to Renamed Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Longtime supporters of Tuck and Dartmouth, Daniel T’89 and Katy Revers recently made a $4.5 million gift and have now committed a combined $10 million in total gifts to the Center, fueling initiatives that address our world’s greatest energy and sustainability challenges through business innovation. Read More See More Campaign News “It is our commitment to innovation—to dynamic change rooted in historic strength—that has allowed Tuck to thrive and continues to guide and ground us as we look to the future.” —Dean Matthew J. Slaughter Back April 28, 2018 To the Tuck Community: At Tuck we believe the world today calls for a special kind of leadership: confident yet humble, empathetic, courageous. This belief animated our founders more than a century ago and drives us still. But just as the world has changed so too has the means by which we bring our mission to life. It is this commitment to innovation—to dynamic change rooted in historic strength—that has allowed Tuck to thrive and continues to guide and ground us as we look to the future. I am writing at this moment because we are at an important inflection point in our work. Today marks the launch of The Tuck Difference: The Campaign for Tomorrow’s Wise Leaders, a $250-million philanthropic endeavor to secure Tuck’s distinctive leadership and ready tomorrow’s wise leaders to take on the world’s most pressing challenges. It is an ambitious goal—part of Dartmouth’s $3-billion comprehensive campaign—but Tuck is an ambitious place. To achieve it we must invigorate our historic commitment to the people, programs, and places that make Tuck unique. The order of these priorities—people, programs, places—is important. Our most cherished asset is talent. The dynamism and diversity of our students and our faculty are why Tuck thrives. They are the reason increasing our ability to attract the very best students and scholar-educators to sustain a world-class learning community comes first. Tuck’s success also rests on our ability to anticipate and adapt to the changing world. This is the innovative spirit that has kept Tuck at the forefront of business education for generations. To ensure we remain there, we must secure the excellence of our MBA program and seek out innovative new opportunities for pre- and post-MBA learners. Ensuring the vibrancy of our physical spaces is critical to our distinctive learning community. And today we find ourselves at an important moment for the places we hold dear. The coming years will see the Dartmouth College campus enriched by the creation of the new Arthur L. Irving Institute for Energy and Society and an expanded Thayer School of Engineering that will also house the college’s Department of Computer Science. Strategic investments in new and technologically advanced spaces for research, teaching, and learning at Tuck will be essential for us to thrive within the heart of this vibrant new crossroads of opportunity. We greet the future from a position of strength. Through the reach and vitality of an extraordinarily loyal and generous alumni network, our graduates are a powerful part of our success. They are today’s wise leaders forging the path for tomorrow’s. In fact, as of this moment Tuck’s alumni and friends have already given $132 million toward our campaign goal, proving they are the force that advances our mission and quickens our steps. I am greatly inspired by this campaign progress thus far, which has already surpassed the total of Tuck’s previous campaign. For Tuck and for the world, the stakes are great. But so are the opportunities. With your help, together we can deliver on our promise to the world and secure our legacy as the preeminent business school that creates, teaches, and applies life-changing knowledge. That is The Tuck Difference, and at this moment we invite everyone in the Tuck community around the world to join us. Sincerely, Matthew J. Slaughter Ways to Give Back Campaign Leadership Committee David F. Craver T’97 Vicki U. Craver T’97 Peter A. Kadas T’90 Yu-San Kan T’86 Andre L. Roberts Koester T’98 Michael E. Koester T’99 Roger J. Lynch T’95, TP’18 Richard F. X. McArdle Jr. T’86, P’16, P’18, P’21 Paul E. Raether T’73, TP’03 Daniel R. Revers T’89, P’18 Carlos Rodriguez-Pastor Jr. T'88 Tore Rynning-Nielsen T’85 Isabel Scharmer T’00 Jennifer S. Uhrig T’87, P’19 Jonathan M. Uhrig T’87, P’19 Laura P. Ward T’89, MPH’18 Michael D. Ward T’92 Christopher J. Williams T’84 Ways to Give CONTACT US 603-646-8825 Email #THETUCKDIFFERENCE Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Dartmouth College: A Call to Lead