Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Campus Return Search What to Expect Students and Parents Employees Instructors International Students Visitors Dashboards Planning Covid-19 Prevention Plan Events and Gatherings Planning Framework News & Announcements Campus Return Videos Resources Environmental Health & Safety Student Health Remote Work Teaching@UCR COVID Notify Riverside County COVID-19 Health & Safety Testing Vaccines Screening Check Face Coverings Case Reporting and Investigation COVID-19 Prevention Plan Breadcrumb COVID-19 Prevention Plan Purpose To provide an informative resource for UC Riverside faculty, staff, and students returning to campus following guidance from California Department of Public Health (CDPH) and Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) . This COVID-19 Prevention Plan includes the prevention measures the campus has put in place and what specific responsibilities are placed on faculty, staff, and students returning to campus, and essential personnel remaining on campus to ensure the safety of the entire campus community. This has been updated to reflect the January 14, 2022 CalOSHA Emergency Temporary Standard revision. Download the COVID-19 Prevention Plan Campus Re-Opening Current Status: UCR has returned to in-person instruction and work. Following California Department of Public Health and the latest workplace requirements from California Division of Occupational Safety and Health (Cal/OSHA), at UCR: Effective Monday, April 11, 2022, UCR will adjust our guidelines for the use of face coverings to align with guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and state and local health authorities. On that date the use of face coverings indoors will be strongly recommended for those who are up to date on vaccinations, which includes receiving all recommended COVID-19 vaccines, including any booster dose when eligible. Face coverings indoors will remain required for anyone who is not up to date on vaccinations as well as in specific high-risk settings. See face covering section below for more details. On Monday, March 28, 2022, the Daily Wellness Check will change to the COVID Screening Check. Employees and students are required to complete the COVID Screening Check if they are reporting the result of a positive COVID-19 test, they have COVID-like symptoms (symptoms from a known or chronic condition (e.g. allergies, asthma, etc.) are not considered COVID-19 symptoms for this report), they were exposed to someone who tested positive for COVID-19 (close contact with a known positive person for more than 15 minutes in a 24 hour period), or they are reporting the completion of their required weekly COVID-19 test. See Wellness Check section below for more details. For any questions or concerns, contact EH&S at 951-827-5528 or ehs@ucr.edu. Personal Protocols Each faculty, staff, and student shall follow established protocols to limit the spread of COVID-19 on campus. Training Training: Each employee returning to work on campus must complete the COVID-19 Prevention online training course, which will discuss UCR's policies and procedures to protect individuals from COVID-19 hazards. To access the training, visit R'Space, and click on the UC Learning Center (LMS). All UCR employees, whether working on campus or remotely, will receive an email notification providing instructions on how to access the course through the UC Learning Center. Training completion is required prior to returning to work on campus. Employees who have returned to campus must complete the course as soon as reasonably possible. Supervisors will receive an email notification when employees complete the course. New employees must complete the training. COVID-19 Vaccine UC Vaccination Policy Vaccination is effective at preventing COVID-19, protecting against both transmission and severe illness or death. All UCR faculty, staff and student employees must comply with the UC vaccination policy. The policy will allow for narrow medical exemptions consistent with CDC guidance and manufacturer labeling. Students and employees will be able to request an accommodation based on disability or religious belief. Submitting Your Vaccine Record Immunization records are housed in the HIPAA-secure Epic system (also called MyChart), which is managed in partnership between UC San Diego and UCR Health. Epic provides multiple advantages for storing and managing confidential employee vaccination records. Submit your proof of vaccination to MyChart. Click here to access instructions for uploading your information. For more information on your MyChart account, contact covid19@ucr.edu. COVID-19 Symptoms and Testing COVID-19 Symptoms and Testing: If you have been exposed to COVID-19, it is important to note that you may not become sick nor show symptoms. Symptoms vary, with some people experiencing no or very mild symptoms while others experience very severe symptoms. These symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus and include: Cough Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing Fever greater than 100.4°F, or feeling feverish Chills Muscle or body aches Headache Sore throat New loss of taste and/or smell If you are experiencing any of the above symptoms, stay home and report by completing the COVID Screening Check. Report a confirmed positive case, exposure, or COVID-19 like symptoms by filling out the COVID Screening Check. For more information, click here. High-Risk Individuals: Per the CDC, individuals with certain conditions may have a higher risk of COVID-19 infection. Those conditions include: Over 65 years of age Severe asthma Chronic lung disease Chronic liver disease Chronic kidney disease is treated with dialysis Diabetes (type 1 or type 2) Serious heart conditions Severe obesity Immunocompromised – HIV, AIDS, chemotherapy patients, transplant recipients, on immune-suppressing medications, etc. Pregnancy Stroke or cerebrovascular disease, which affects blood flow to the brain If you think you are considered high risk and need assistance, please contact the UCR Disability Management Office to discuss what reasonable accommodations can be addressed. COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Testing: UCR offers free on-campus COVID-19 testing to all employees and students. Employee testing sites are open for all UCR faculty, staff, contractors, temporary and third-party (e.g. bookstore) staff, and volunteers, regardless of vaccination status. Student testing sties are open to all UCR students, regardless of vaccination status. For on-campus testing locations, visit https://campusreturn.ucr.edu/testing-requirements. UCR also requires routine COVID-19 testing for employees and students. Testing protocols include taking a PCR test at least once every two weeks for vaccinated, asymptomatic students living in campus housing; once every month for all other vaccinated, asymptomatic employees and students who are working or learning on campus; and once a week for anyone who is unvaccinated with an approved exemption. Individuals who are unvaccinated with an approved exemption is required to report by completing the COVID Screening Check. For more information, visit https://campusreturn.ucr.edu/testing-requirements. When a worksite has been identified as the location of a COVID-19 outbreak of 3 or more employee COVID-19 cases within an exposed group, visited the workplace during their high-risk exposure period at any time during 14 days, COVID-19 testing is available to all employees in the exposed group. Individuals will be notified by Human Resources or HR Business Partner and will need to be tested immediately upon notification and again one week later. COVID-19 testing is available at no cost to employees within the exposed group during an employee's paid time, except (a) employees who were not present at the workplace during the relevant 14-day period(s); (b) employees who were fully vaccinated and who do not have COVID-19 symptoms; (c) For COVID-19 cases which do not develop COVID-19 symptoms after returning to work, no testing is required for 90 days after the initial onset of COVID-19 symptoms or, for COVID-19 cases who never developed symptoms, 90 days after the first positive test. Individuals should work with their supervisors to schedule testing times. The duration of any quarantine, isolation, or exclusion period will not be affected by a negative COVID-19 test result. After the first two COVID-19 tests, continuous COVID-19 testing will be required at least once per week at no cost, during paid time for all employees in the exposed group who remain at the workplace, or more frequently if recommended by UCR COVID-19 Management Resource Center, HRBP/Leave Coordinator, Riverside County Department of Public Health. When a worksite has been identified as a location of a major COVID-19 outbreak of 20 or more employee COVID-19 cases in an exposed group, visited the workplace during their high-risk exposure period within 30 days, COVID-19 testing is available to all employees in the exposed group, regardless of vaccination status. Individuals will be notified by UCR COVID-19 Management Resource Center or HRBP/Leave Coordinator. They will need to be tested twice a week or more frequently if UCR COVID-19 Wellness Hotline, HRBP/Leave Coordinator, or Riverside County Department of Public Health recommends it. Wellness Check Wellness Check: The health and wellness protocols implemented are based on the Center for Disease Prevention and Control (CDC) and California state guidance. Employees must not work on campus if they are sick unless otherwise directed. On Monday, March 28, 2022, the Daily Wellness Check will change to the COVID Screening Check. Employees and students are required to complete the COVID Screening Check if they are reporting the result of a positive COVID-19 test, they have COVID-like symptoms (symptoms from a known or chronic condition (e.g. allergies, asthma, etc.) are not considered COVID-19 symptoms for this report), they were exposed to someone who tested positive for COVID-19 (close contact with a known positive person for more than 15 minutes in a 24 hour period), or they are reporting the completion of their required weekly COVID-19 test. Please remember that employee health issues are confidential. Employees and Supervisors should reach out to the UCR COVID-19 Management Resource Center for guidance on responding to possible or confirmed COVID cases. Face Coverings Face Coverings: Effective Monday, April 11, 2022, UCR will adjust our guidelines for the use of face coverings to align with guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and state and local health authorities. On that date the use of face coverings indoors will be strongly recommended for those who are up to date on vaccinations, which includes receiving all recommended COVID-19 vaccines, including any booster dose when eligible. Face coverings indoors will remain required for anyone who is not up to date on vaccinations as well as in specific high-risk settings. All individuals are required to wear face coverings over the nose and mouth at all times indoors in the following high-risk settings. On public transit (examples: airplanes, ships, ferries, trains, subways, buses, taxis, and ride-shares) and in transportation hubs (examples: airport, bus terminal, marina, train station, seaport or other port, subway station, or any other area that provides transportation). Healthcare settings (e.g. Student Health Services, Counseling and Psychological Services) State and local correctional facilities and detention centers Homeless shelters Long term care settings and Adult and Senior Care Facilities Emergency shelters and cooling and heating centers Worn face coverings must meet the following criteria: Face coverings should be a surgical mask, a medical procedure mask, a NIOSH-certified respirator worn voluntarily, or made of a tightly woven fabric or non-woven material of at least two layers. A face covering does not include a scarf, ski mask, balaclava, bandana, turtleneck, collar, or a single layer of fabric. Face coverings must cover the nose, mouth, and chin. Face coverings are not acceptable if (i) they have one layer, or (ii) if light shines through the face covering when held up to a light source. Worn respirators may not be equipped with valves. The purpose of face-covering is to keep your respiratory droplets from spreading into breathing zones. Face coverings are not considered personal protective equipment (PPE). You are responsible for making sure you have a clean face-covering each workday. You or your supervisor can request a face covering if you do not have one. If you forget your face covering, contact your supervisor. Additional Face Covering Information can be found here. Hygiene Hygiene: Employees are encouraged to wash their hands with soap for at least 20 seconds or use sanitizer when the sink or handwashing facility is not accessible, preferably every one to two hours, before and after eating, using shared equipment traversing common areas. The best way to prevent infection is to practice good hygiene. The main routes for a virus to enter your body are through the eyes, nose, and mouth. Wash your hands with soap for 20 seconds, often throughout the day - at least every hour or two at a minimum. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth whenever possible, especially with uncleaned hands. If you touch your face, wash your hands with soap and water for a minimum of 20 seconds. If handwashing facilities are not available, hand sanitizer with at least 60% ethyl alcohol content is a good substitute. Make sure to continue to rub your hands on all surfaces, just as you would if washing until the hand sanitizer has evaporated completely. Avoid touching surfaces like doorknobs and elevator buttons, whenever possible, with bare hands. Use a clean tissue, shirt sleeve, or elbow. If you cough or sneeze, do so into your elbow or cover your nose and mouth with a tissue. Tissues must be thrown in the trash, followed by hand washing. System for Communicating System for Communicating: UCR communicates regularly with its faculty, staff and students through a robust set of communication channels to provide important updates to help keep our community healthy. These communication channels include InsideUCR, emails from the Chancellor, emails, websites, signage, social media, webinar and direct communication from schools and colleges. Workplace hazards associated with COVID-19 can be reported via EH&S Report a Public Health Concern. Communication Channels Campus Return EH&S Coronavirus InsideUCR Student Health Campus Signage Investigating and Responding to COVID-19 Cases: Investigating and Responding to COVID-19 Cases: UCR has developed a robust and comprehensive process for investigating and responding to COVID-19 cases. Employees who had potential COVID-19 exposure in the workplace receive information on leave, pay, benefits and work arrangements. Notifications about potential workplace exposures on campus can be found on the COVID-19 Dashboard on the Campus Return website. We also ensure the following is implemented: Employees that had a close contact are offered COVID-19 testing at no cost during their working hours, except for COVID-19 cases who were allowed to return to work per our return-to-work criteria and have remained free of symptoms for 90 days after the initial onset of symptoms, or for cases who never developed symptoms, for 90 days after the first positive test. Written notice within one business day of our knowledge of a COVID-19 case that people at the worksite may have been exposed to COVID-19. This notice will be provided to all employees (and their authorized representative), independent contractors and other employers on the premises at the same worksite as the COVID-19 case during the high-risk exposure period. These notifications will meet the requirements of T8CCR section 3205(c)(3)(B) and Labor Code section 6409.6(a)(4); (a)(2); and (c). Reporting, Recordkeeping and Access Reporting, Recordkeeping and Access UCR requires the following: Report information about COVID-19 cases at the workplace to Riverside County Public Health whenever required by law, and provide any related information requested by Riverside County Public Health. Report immediately to Cal/OSHA any COVID-19 related serious illnesses or death, as defined by CCR Title 8 section 330(h), of an employee occurring in the place of employment orin connection with any employment. Maintain records of the steps taken to implement the written COVID-19 Prevention Program in accordance with CCR Title 8 3203(b). Make the written COVID-19 Prevention Progarm available at the workplace to employees, authorized employee representative and to representatives of Cal/OSHA immediately upon request. The campus COVID-19 Prevention Program can be found here. Use the Investigating COVID-19 Cases Guide to keep record of and track all COVID-19 cases. The information will be made available to employees, authorized employee representatves, or as otherwise required by law, with personal identifying information removed. Risk Management will maintain a record of all employee COVID-19 cases. The campus will notify all employees, union and contractors, of positive COVID-19 cases at UCR facilities via email that links to the dashboard listing the workplace locations and date of knowledge when a positive test is known. Positive COVID-19 cases will be communicated within one (1) business day. Visitors Visitors: We recognize that visitors, contractors, vendors, and other non-UCR personnel may need to come to campus. Non-UCR-affiliated individuals coming to campus for essential work must self-monitor for COVID-like symptoms before coming to campus. Visitors may be asked to show proof of vaccination or negative COVID-19 test results. Return-to-Work Criteria Return-to-Work Criteria: UCR follows California Department of Public Health and CDC guidelines governing return to work criteria. Those criteria can change as more information about SARS-CoV-2 is learned. However, general guidance will be provide through completing the COVID Screening Check, guidance from HR, as well referencing the What to Do: Suspected or Confirmed COVID-19, What to Do: COVID-19 Exposure, What to Do: Close Contact Location-Based Protocols Common Areas Common Areas: (includes public corridors, lobbies, indoor seating areas, etc.) Hand sanitizer stations have been placed at the main entrance of major campus buildings. Map of station locations. Employees are encouraged to wash hands with soap and water frequently after touching door handles and other shared surfaces with bare hands. It is important to be respectful of everyone's space during this time. Please adhere to the following guidance. Wash your hands often with soap for at least 20 seconds. You may use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% ethyl alcohol as an alternative if handwashing is not available. Hand sanitizers with methyl alcohol are prohibited. Ventilation Ventilation In coordination with Facilities Services, Environmental Health and Safety will continue to monitor the recommendations and guidance from the WHO, CDC, and American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE). Based on the recommendations, Facilities Services has already taken the following actions: Maximized outside air to increase air circulation 2 hours before and after regular operating hours, so more fresh air being brought into active buildings Ensuring fan systems are functional and operating. Checking that Central HVAC fan filter efficiencies are maximized and within acceptable operating ranges and replaced as necessary. MERV 13 or better filters are used whenever possible. Conducting an air exchange review of all General Assignment classrooms across campus. As a reminder, the most effective way to mitigate the spread of the COVID-19 virus is vaccination. For those that are unable to be vaccinated, the use of a mask, hand washing and physical distancing greatly reduce the potential for infection. There are instances when outside air quantities in naturally or mechanically ventilated spaces cannot be maximized due to environmental conditions. These conditions include: When the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Air Quality Index is greater than 100 for any pollutant. When the outside air temperature is excessively hot or cold. When a worksite has been identified as the location of a COVID-19 outbreak of 3 or more employee COVID-19 cases within a 14-day period, an investigation into issues concerning insufficient outdoor air or insufficient air filtration will be accomplished. Specific indoor tasks may be moved outdoors or performed remotely if increases in outdoor air or air filtration improvement cannot be accomplished due to ventilation system limitations. When a worksite has been identified as the location of a COVID-19 outbreak of 20 or more employee COVID-19 cases within a 30-day period, indoor locations with mechanical ventilation will be evaluated to determine if filter efficiency can be increased to filters with a Minimum Efficiency Reporting Value (MERV) 13 or higher. MERV 13 or higher efficiency filter MERV 13 or higher efficiency filter, then suppose the ventilation system is not compatible with a MERV 13 or higher efficiency filter. In that case, operations within that specific area will be moved to an outdoor location, or the operations will be performed remotely. Portable or mounted High-Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filtration units, or other air cleaning systems, will be considered a last resort method to reduce last resort method to reduce transmission risk, where feasible. Do not use campus or grant funds to purchase HEPA or other air filtration units unless there is specific approval from the UCR Senior Industrial Hygienist. Employees may not bring personal HEPA or other filtration units to campus for use. Any personal units found will be unplugged and will be disposed of within 48 hours if not removed. Cleaning and Disinfection Cleaning and Disinfection: Facilities Services will provide regular cleaning and disinfection services for the campus, focusing on frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs, elevator buttons, equipment, tools, handrails, handles, controls in public areas such as public restrooms. Departments are required to assist with additional cleaning and disinfection of high-touch areas in spaces assigned to them. For positive COVID-19 cases, decontamination is based on the last day the individual was on site and how long the space can be left unoccupied. UCR follows CDC recommendations on disinfection after a space was occupied by a COVID-19 positive individual. Specific Space Type Considerations Drinking Fountains & Hydration Stations: Facilities Services is adhering to state guidelines and will take action to return water fountain bubblers back into use. Additionally, Facilities Services will continue to work throughout the summer to retrofit some existing first floor campus water fountains with a bottle refill functionality (some were added previously based on building occupancy). Non-touch hydration stations may be used. The UCR campus map shows hydration station locations. Break Rooms: Encourage employees not fully vaccinated to eat outdoors or at their desks. Workshops and Labs: To support the variety and intricacy of research methods or workshop tasks, assessments are best made locally with EH&S support as needed. For shared equipment (i.e., fume hood, biosafety cabinet, tools), establish a cleaning and disinfection plan. Lab coats and safety eyewear should not be shared and should be stored on separate hooks. Shared PPE (i.e., face shields, chemical splash apron) should be cleaned and disinfected between each use. Wear nitrile gloves when using communal gloves (i.e., Cryogenic gloves). Refrain from ordering large supplies of perishable materials if COVID-19 cases increase. Vehicles: COVID-19 Shared Vehicle Guidance Prioritize shared vehicle transportation in the following order: Individuals residing in the same housing unit should be transported in the same vehicle. Individuals working in the same workplace should be transported in the same vehicle. Individuals who do not share the same household or workplace should be transported in the same vehicle only when no other transportation alternatives are feasible. Individuals who are not fully vaccinated must be provided with a face covering, which must be worn. All passengers must wash hands or use hand sanitizer upon entering and after exiting the vehicle. Hand sanitizer with methyl alcohol are prohibited Clean all high-touch surfaces (door handles, seatbelt buckle, armrests, steering wheel, shifter, etc.) to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Clean and disinfect if used by a COVID-19 case during the high-risk exposure period, when another individual will use the surface within 24 hours of the COVID-19 case. Make sure to allow the full contact time specified on the provided disinfectant label. All windows should be kept open, and do not use the A/C recirculated air option. Windows do not have to be kept open if one or more of the following conditions exist: (a) the vehicle has functioning air conditioning in use, and excessive outdoor heat would create a hazard to individuals; (b) the vehicle has functioning heating in use, and excessive outdoor cold would create a hazard to individuals; (c) protection is needed from weather conditions, such as rain or snow; (d) the vehicle has a cabin air filter in use, and the US EPA Air Quality Index for any pollutant is greater than 100. Early Childhood Services (CDPH: https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CID/DCDC/Pages/COVID-19/Child-Care-Guidance.aspx) Day Camps and other supervised youth activities: Complete this checklist and post it in the facility. Event Spaces (Indoors/Outdoors): Follow face coverings are requirements as described in Face Covering section. Consider providing sanitizer stations at all entrances and exits and backstage on each side. Mega Events (indoor events with 1,000 or more people and outdoor events with 10,000 or more people): Examples: conventions, conferences, expos, concerts, shows, and nightclubs, sporting events, live events and entertainment, fairs, festivals, parades, large private events or gatherings, large races, marathons, and endurance events. Effective April 1, 2022, attendees age 2 and older are strongly recommended for indoor mega events, or recommended for outdoor mega events, to provide proof that they are up to date with all recommended doses in their primary series of COVID-19 vaccines or have received a negative COVID-19 test (test must have been conducted in the last 1 day for an antigen test, or 2 days for a PCR test). Attendees cannot self-attest to verify vaccination status or a negative test result. Attendees must follow face covering requirements as described in Face Covering section. Employer-Provided Housing Prioritize housing assignments in the following order: Residents who usually maintain a household together outside of work, such as family members, shall be housed in the same housing unit without other persons. Residents who work in the same crew or work together at the same workplace shall be housed in the same housing unit without other persons. Employees who do not usually maintain a common household, work crew, or workplace shall be housed in the same housing unit only when no other housing alternatives are feasible. Face coverings Provide face coverings to all residents and provide information to residents on when they should be used per UC procedures, state or local health orders, or guidance. Cleaning and disinfecting Ensure housing units, kitchens, bathrooms, and common areas are effectively cleaned to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Housing units, kitchens, bathrooms, and common indoor areas shall be cleaned and disinfected after a COVID-19 case was present during the high-risk exposure period if another resident will be there within 24 hours of the COVID-19 case. Ensure that unwashed dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, and similar items are not shared. Report COVID-19 symptoms by filling out the COVID Screening Check. Establish, implement, and maintain effective policies and procedures for COVID-19 testing of residents who had close contact or COVID-19 symptoms. COVID-19 cases or close contact Effectively quarantine residents who have had close contact with all other residents. Effective quarantine shall include providing residents who had close contact with a private bathroom and sleeping area. The following are exempt from this requirement: Fully vaccinated residents who do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and COVID-19 cases who meet all the following (a) at least 24 hours have passed since a fever of 100.4°F, or higher has resolved without the use of fever-reducing medication, and (b) COVID-19 symptoms have improved, and (c) at least 10 days have passed since COVID-19 symptoms first appeared, and (d) have remained free of COVID-19 symptoms, for 90 days after the initial onset of COVID-19 symptoms or, for COVID-19 cases who never developed COVID-19 symptoms, for 90 days after the first positive test. Effectively isolate COVID-19 cases from all residents who are not COVID-19 cases. Effective isolation shall include housing COVID-19 cases only with other COVID-19 cases and providing COVID-19 case residents with a sleeping area and bathroom that COVID-19 case residents do not share. Contact For more information or additional guidance, please contact: Environmental Health & Safety ehspublichealth@ucr.edu Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Feedback Environmental Health and Safety Facility Services Human Resources Keep Researching Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel