Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titans of Zoom “ “Being on the team has taught me how to be a part of something bigger. Competing in this international competition, we get to show off our hard work, ingenuity and Titan pride.”— Eric Ceballos Eric Ceballos and Nicholas Saltarelli are revved up about mechanical engineering. As members of the Titan Racing team at Cal State Fullerton, they are designing and building a formula-style car to compete in the annual Formula SAE against collegiate teams from across the world. Driven by determination to make it to the finish line — the duo spends long days and sleepless nights working with team members to manufacture and fine-tune the vehicle. To push the limits of engineering and speed means Eric and Nicholas have learned to push their own personal limits. Faced with challenges and setbacks, they’ve uncovered new ways of approaching problems, gained confidence in their technical aptitude, and discovered the depths of their grit and perseverance — skills they will take with them into the engineering workforce. Donate Now Receive Updates For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Michael Karg Executive Director of Development mkarg@fullerton.edu 657-278-3348 Watch Video This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU