Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titans of the Cosmos Cal State Fullerton scientists and their students are on the forefront of discovery, conducting cutting-edge research in a hot, emergent field of astronomy — gravitational waves. As part of the international collaboration of researchers that discovered gravitational waves — ripples in the fabric of space-time — Titan scientists played a significant role in proving Einstein’s theory of general relativity. Their groundbreaking discovery opened a new window on how the universe works. At CSUF's Nicholas and Lee Begovich Center for Gravitational-Wave Physics and Astronomy, student researchers and their mentors study neutron stars, black holes and the cosmic collisions that cause gravitational waves — finding new clues to understanding the universe and unravelling its many mysteries. Be the difference. Help further gravitational wave research at Cal State Fullerton. Donate Now Receive Updates For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Michael Karg Executive Director of Development mkarg@fullerton.edu 657-278-3348 This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU