Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titan of Hope “ “I don’t think there is any such thing as a throwaway human being. I know how easy it is to go down that wrong path. Higher education is the key to changing the narrative.” As if transferring from a small community college to a large university isn’t daunting enough, imagine needing a wheelchair and having a history of incarceration. Mir Aminy initially felt lost and struggled to find his place at Cal State Fullerton. Then Mir discovered Project Rebound, a campus program that assists formerly incarcerated students in navigating higher education. Project Rebound helped him develop into an involved student and community member, while also giving him a place to be himself. He began to mentor undergraduate men on campus and local youth at the Higher Ground Youth & Family Services after-school program in Anaheim. He was recognized for his selfless service and positive impact on those around him. After successfully completing his bachelor’s degree, Mir now works for Project Rebound while pursuing a master’s in counseling. He is on his way to achieving his dream of working with higher education students who face the same challenges he has faced. Be the difference in a Titan's life. Support Project Rebound today. Donate Now Receive Updates For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: University Advancement giving@fullerton.edu 657-278-5287 Watch Video This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU