Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Campus Return Search What to Expect Students and Parents Employees Instructors International Students Visitors Dashboards Planning Covid-19 Prevention Plan Events and Gatherings Planning Framework News & Announcements Campus Return Videos Resources Environmental Health & Safety Student Health Remote Work Teaching@UCR COVID Notify Riverside County COVID-19 Health & Safety Testing Vaccines Screening Check Face Coverings Case Reporting and Investigation Face Coverings Breadcrumb Face Coverings Face Covering Guidelines Face covering guidelines (updated May 27, 2022) UPDATE: From May 30 through June 13, face coverings will be required in indoor spaces on the UC Riverside campus and in university owned or operated venues. More information available in campus announcement. Face coverings are also required in the following indoor settings (effective April 11, 2022): Healthcare settings (e.g. Student Health Services, Counseling and Psychological Services) On public transit (examples: airplanes, ships, ferries, trains, subways, buses, taxis, and ride-shares) and in transportation hubs (examples: airport, bus terminal, marina, train station, seaport or other port, subway station, or any other area that provides transportation). State and local correctional facilities and detention centers Homeless shelters Emergency shelters and cooling and heating centers Long term care settings and Adult and Senior Care Facilities In order to assist the UCR community to adhere to the face covering requirements, EH&S is providing face coverings for UCR personnel. Individuals should review the options and availability for face coverings below and submit a request for the appropriate number. Who will still be required to wear a face covering indoors? From May 30-June 13 all students, employees, and visitors, regardless of vaccination status, will be required to wear face coverings indoors while on campus. After June 13, anyone who is not up to date on COVID-19 vaccinations will be required to wear face coverings indoors while on campus. Being up to date on vaccinations includes receiving all recommended COVID-19 vaccines, including any single booster dose when eligible (second boosters are not yet required by UC policy). If you have not yet submitted your proof of vaccination or booster in the MyChart system, please do so as soon as possible. Can I impose stricter masking restrictions in my individual or group workspace? Individuals or departments are not permitted to revise university face covering guidelines in campus spaces that they manage. This includes classrooms and research facilities. What mask should I wear? The California Department of Public Health recommends using surgical masks or well-fitted higher-level respirators (e.g. N95s, KN95, etc.). Worn face coverings should meet the following criteria: Worn face coverings must meet the following criteria: Acceptable face coverings include: surgical masks, medical procedure masks, NIOSH-certified respirators, or a tightly woven fabric or non-woven material of at least two layers. Face coverings must cover the nose, mouth, and chin. Face coverings are not acceptable if (i) they have one layer, or (ii) if light shines through the face covering when held up to a light source. Worn respirators may not be equipped with valves. Unacceptable face coverings include: scarves, ski masks, balaclavas, bandanas, turtlenecks, collars, or other single-layered fabrics. Where to Get Masks Students: The Well is providing free masks and COVID-19 Wellness kits to UCR students. Request Masks or Wellness Kit Employees: Request free masks online from Environmental Health & Safety. Request Masks Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Feedback Environmental Health and Safety Facility Services Human Resources Keep Researching Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel