Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Modernize McCarthy HallI Want to Help Tour the modernized facilities using virtual reality: Central Informal Learning Office 'Canyon' South East Informal Learning South West Hall Terrace Upgrade NSM facilities to unleash the power of discovery. Your investment will: Create visibly accessible spaces that put science on display Develop formal and informal areas that foster teaching and learning Ignite discovery-based research and teaching in state-of-the-art spaces The College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics (NSM) is dedicated to the principle that teaching and research are inextricably linked and undergraduate research is an integral part of education. Sustaining our leadership through a teacher-scholar model calls for ongoing investments in faculty and students, along with the programs, facilities, and equipment that support this important work. NSM has launched an ambitious $40M construction project to modernize McCarthy Hall. Phase 1 will include a full tear down and rebuild of the second floor to elevate spaces that promote a teacher-scholar model and promote the common pursuit of scientific knowledge and discovery. Donor support is essential to advancing these goals. The opportunities included in the McCarthy Hall presentation provide recognition for donors who wish to invest in the students, faculty, programs and research that will elevate the potential of our remarkable community. Video: A Lasting Investment How You Can HelpDonor Recognition Opportunities Share this project: Keep me informed Contact For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Michael Karg Executive Director of Development mkarg@fullerton.edu 657-278-3348 This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU