Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titans of Twitch Studying the muscle fibers of elite female weightlifters, Cal State Fullerton researchers made a shocking discovery: women had a higher concentration of fast-twitch fibers — the secret to explosive power — than ever recorded for any elite athlete, man or woman, in any sport. Their finding shattered the myth that women are not biologically predisposed to excel at exercises requiring hyper strength and power. Using this breakthrough knowledge, faculty and student research teams at the university’s Center for Sport Performance are now exploring unique methods to optimize strength training for world-class weightlifters. With center researchers seeking to understand muscular differences among female athletes — a vastly understudied group — and diving down to the molecular level, Cal State Fullerton is leading the way in sport performance research and evidenced-based training for competitive athletes. Be the difference. Help advance sport performance research at Cal State Fullerton today. Donate Now Receive Updates For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Carlos Leija Associate Vice President cleija@fullerton.edu 657-278-4869 This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU