Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Student engineers his own mobility At age 8, when he saw the street racing movie, “The Fast and the Furious,” Irwin Gill immediately became hooked on fast, stick shift cars. At Cal State Fullerton, the mechanical engineering major was thrilled to discover and join the Titan Racing team to design, build and ultimately race a formula-style car.Continue Reading $ In his junior year, when a serious accident left Gill’s legs paralyzed, he managed to return to school, but missed the thrill of driving a manual car, using a gear stick and clutch. Gill’s racing teammates encouraged him to not give up and offered their help, leading to his creation of a hand-controlled manual driving system. Today, Gill uses his invention to drive to his dream engineering job at General Electric Aviation. Be the difference in a Titan’s life. Programs like the Titan Racing Formula SAE team allow CSUF students to apply classroom learning to real-world circumstances. Help all engineering and computer science students obtain hands-on learning opportunities.Donate Now Become a Titan. Learn about CSUF's affordable education. Stay Connected $ Subscribe $<!-- -->Facebook $<!-- -->Twitter $<!-- -->Instagram $<!-- -->Linkedin For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Michael Karg Executive Director of Development mkarg@fullerton.edu 657-278-3348 Read more stories of Resilience This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU