Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Time and Change: The Ohio State Campaign The Ohio State Campaign Impact Stories Giving Opportunities Give now Time and Change: The Ohio State Campaign Who will you champion? The bold thinkers. The problem solvers. The dreamers. They can’t transform the world alone. Through Time and Change, you can become a champion for Ohio State’s students, faculty, staff and community partners. You can invest in their extraordinary potential to improve lives and communities in ways we haven’t yet imagined. Time and Change: The Ohio State University Campaign Play video Those who see possibility everywhere Exploring results in life-changing technology Kathy Guo is pioneering a way to help stroke victims regain their voices. She discovered an innovative way to make this happen through a team-based approach that explored the convergence of music, technology and compassion. Read more Creating an environment to thrive in When an Ohio State professor was asked how he could make cities more welcoming to those with autism, he went straight to the source: he asked those from that very community what they needed. What followed is a unique set of guidelines for city planning that's already being put into effect. Read more Revitalizing communities through collaboration Children on the Near East Side of Columbus have an enhanced educational experience when a public research university, its health care system and a community come together. Read more Be a champion for students. When you invest in people, you invest in the belief that together, we can change lives and move communities forward. Learn more Office of Advancement 14 E. 15th St. Columbus, Ohio 43201 Give now Connect with us: Email: TimeandChange@osu.edu Phone: 614-292-2141 © 2022 The Ohio State University Page maintained by University Marketing Contact webmaster Request an alternate format of this page View privacy notice View non-discrimination notice Give now