Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Faculty & Staff Incoming Students Parents & Families Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Search Campus Health Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Mission, Purpose & Values Contact Information, Locations & Hours Comments & Feedback Policies All Staff Accreditation Health Research Initiatives & Collaborations Quick Links Email Directory Services Health Center Counseling Center The Well for Health Promotion Nutrition Services Request for Orientations Pharmacy Emergency & After Hours Care Medical Records Off-Campus Guide to Health Services Office of Assessment, Intervention and Recovery YOU@Tulane Insurance & Billing Insurance Requirements University Standards for Adequate Insurance T-SHIP Benefit Comparison How to Request T-SHIP Coverage How to Opt Out of T-SHIP Insurance FAQs Billing Medicaid Especially for... Faculty & Staff Graduate, Post-Graduate & Professional Students International Students LGBTQ+ Health New Students Parents, Guardians & Families Part-Time, Distance Learning & SoPA Students School of Medicine Students Quick-Links Patient Portal Appointments COVID-19 Vaccination Records How to Submit Documentation of Your Pre-Arrival COVID-19 Test Immunization Compliance Lab Results Secure Messaging Walk-Out Statement About Services Insurance & Billing Especially for... Patient Portal Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... CAMPUS HEALTH - DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS Campus Health A Spectrum of Care with You in Mind Campus Health's high-quality medical, counseling, and health promotion services are designed to help you get better (or stay well) so that you can minimize disruptions and discomforts due to injury and illness. Quick Links COVID-19 REPORTING Use this link if you suspect you are infected with COVID-19 or have come in contact with someone who is infected. COVID-19 Reporting Form Campus Health "I'm Sick! What do I do?" Quick ViewLearn More Telehealth is available. Call or use the Patient Portal to schedule. Quick ViewLearn More The Health Center for Student Care Quick ViewLearn More Urgent Care, Emergency Rooms, & Pharmacies Quick ViewLearn More The Counseling Center Quick ViewLearn More The Well for Health Promotion Quick ViewLearn More Health Insurance Requirement & Deadline Quick ViewLearn More Your Feedback Matters Quick ViewLearn More I'm Sick! Healthcare resources including self-care tips, nurse advice, walk-in nurse hours, and appointment scheduling Learn More Schedule an Appointment Learn how and when to make an appointment and get the most out of your visit with Campus Health providers. Learn More The Health Center for Student Care The Health Center provides primary and preventive medical care to Tulane students. Learn More Emergency & After Hours Care Local resources for urgent care, emergency care, and 24/7 pharmacies. Learn More The Counseling Center The Counseling Center offers comprehensive therapeutic services, discussion groups, and outreach programs to create a community of care for all students. Learn More The Well for Health Promotion The Well for Health Promotion (The Well) provides resources, programs and services that help Tulane students make healthy choices in support of their academic, personal and professional goals. Learn More Health Insurance Requirement Tulane University requires documentation of adequate health insurance for all enrolled students. The enrollment/waiver process for the 2019-20 academic year is June 1-August 1, 2019. Learn More Feedback Form Share your suggestions, compliments or complaints so we can better serve you. Use our online feedback form. Learn More Connect with Us Follow Tulane Campus Health on Twitter Follow Tulane Campus Health on Instagram Like Tulane Campus Health on Facebook Watch Tulane Campus Health on YouTube Powered by Curator.io Link to Tulane Home Page Campus Health Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Ave., Bldg. 92 New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5255 Maps & Directions Quick Links Feedback Services Insurance & Billing Especially For... Patient Portal News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations About Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University