For the latest campus reopening plans, safety guidelines, and requirements, visit Campus Return. × Please visit NEW "COVID Screening Check" when symptomatic, positive, or exposed. × Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home Patient Portal Quick Links Emergency & NurseLine Insurance Immunizations Make an Appointment UCR Health Schedule an Appointment Search UC Riverside Student Health Services Home COVID-19 Health Care & Services Making an Appointment Health Care & Services Primary Care Women's Health Dental Care Vision Care Travel Clinic Pharmacy Laboratory Emergency & After-Hours Care LiveHealth Online Patient Rights & Responsibilities Eligibility & Fees Students From Other UC Campuses Immunization Immunization Requirements How to submit UC Immunization Requirements Insurance Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Highlander Care Waive UC Ship Medical Care Assistance Fund Referrals Non-Emergency Medical Transportation About Us Contact Us Accreditation Previous Next Welcome to Student Health Services The mission of the Student Health Services (SHS) is to promote academic excellence, enrich the student experience, and support retention by providing high-quality, accessible, and comprehensive medical care to students with a focus on multidisciplinary services, health education, and prevention. Contact Us Visit the patient portal to schedule an in-person appointment or call (951) 827-3031 Student Health Services NurseLine (877) 351-3457 is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Patient portal Student Health News and Announcements Student Health Services will be closed on Monday, May 30 in observance of Memorial Day New - For information and FAQs on The COVID Screening Check click here. SHS Office Hours: Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fridays: 8 a.m.–12 p.m and 1–4:30 p.m. Thursdays: 9 a.m.–12 p.m. and 1–4:30 p.m. (Closed for lunch daily from 12–1 p.m.) Log onto the patient portal to schedule an in-person appointment or call (951) 827-3031 If you are experiencing symptoms related to COVID-19, call (951) 827-3031 and complete the COVID Screening Check Got USHIP or GSHIP? You're covered even when you're NOT on campus! Check out this brochure to learn more about your coverage. Visit Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) for Tele-Mental Health consultations. Emergency/Urgent Care When you're in need of after-hours care you may be tempted to rush off to the emergency room (ER). Learn more about the difference between emergency care and urgent care. Emergency & After-Hours Care COVID-19 Information and Resources Where to Get Tested (Sept. 27) Click an item below for services updates. Pharmacy The SHS Pharmacy is open and available for prescription pick-ups, drop-offs, and refills. Mail order service available visit studenthealth.ucr.edu/pharmacy for instructions. OTC medications are available for purchase without a prescription including emergency contraception. Please call (951) 827-3926 if you have any questions regarding Pharmacy Services. Dental Care The SHS dental clinic has resumed routine preventative and diagnostic services. Please call (951) 827-3039 to schedule an appointment. Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 8:30 a.m.–12 p.m. and 1–4:30 p.m., and Thursdays from 9 a.m.–12 p.m. and 1–4:30 p.m. If you have a dental emergency, call to schedule a tele-dentistry consult with a dentist. For emergency care after hours, please visit the emergency room. After-Hours Care If you need medical assistance after hours, on weekends, or on holidays, get care from the following: The SHS nurse line is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Please call NurseLine (877) 351-3457 to speak with a nurse. Visit LiveHealth Online for video appointments with a non-UCR physician. Visit a local urgent care clinic or emergency room. Student Surveys Please take a few minutes to complete the online Student Health Services Satisfaction Survey about your most recent visit. All information will be kept confidential and used solely for quality assurance and improvement. To Submit a Formal Complaint please complete the Patient Service Issue Form. You can also reach us at the secure email shspatientadvocate@ucr.edu regarding your health visit. Please DO NOT include any personal health information in your email. Health Records Information Current Students: For release of information, please sign in to your online UCR student health portal to complete your request. Review the release of information instructions for more details on submitting your request. For all other requests for information requiring a signature, please download and complete the Release of Information Authorization Form. Health Records submission information Submit your completed forms by fax, mail, or email to: University of California, Riverside Student Health Services, Medical Records MC89 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Fax: (833) 260-8603 Email: shsmedrecords@ucr.edu Please allow seven to 10 business days for processing. No fee is charged for requests that are sent directly to a physician’s office, medical facility, hospital, medical insurance company, school, State of California disability office, Social Security office, or law enforcement office. Fees for Student Personal Requests Please determine on your request how you would like to receive your records. Electronic processing: Flat fee of $6.50. Records can be faxed, emailed encrypted with a password, or copied to a CD for mailing or pick up. Paper: 25 cents per paper page copied. Please choose only records that you need to lower your costs if you require paper records. A flat fee of $15 is charged for third-party requests (ex., copy services, attorneys, auto insurance etc.). Payments Current or former students: You will receive a secure encrypted invoice by email if an email address is provided or by mail with your records. We cannot accept cash. Checks or money orders are to be made out to UC Regents and must include your student ID number (if applicable). Checks or money orders can be mailed or dropped off with a copy of the invoice enclosed to: University of California, Riverside Student Health Services, Medical Records MC89 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Third parties: Please attach a $15 check made out to UC Regents with each request in order to process. Confidentiality UCR is committed to patient confidentiality. We safeguard your medical records according to established professional practices. UCR handles your health information based on the following: If you are a student If you are a student*, the University of California follows the California Confidentiality of Medical Information Act (CMIA) the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and other applicable laws that apply to the use and disclosure of your health information. *Whether you are a student or not is defined by Section 130.00 of the University of California’s Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations and Students (PACAOS). If you are a non-student If you are a non-student, we may use and disclose your health information as described in the University of California Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Notice of Privacy Practices. How to Make a Report of Sexual Harassment and Notice of Nondiscrimination Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3031 email: health@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Student Health & Wellness Services Case Management Counseling & Psychological Services Recreation Student Disability Resource Center The Well Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel