Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom What Does It Take...To Save Lives During DisastersTo Advocate For Immigrant JusticeTo Advance Marine BiologyTo Expose The TruthWatch Video Play Icon Continue ReadingBouncing down arrow to indicate more content below. It Takes a Titan.It Takes a Titan. Continue ScrollingBouncing down arrow to indicate more content below. Meet four Titans who have faced daunting obstacles. The support they have found at Cal State Fullerton – the mentors and student success resources made possible by donors like you – has made the difference in their lives. Titan of the AirwavesFirst-generation graduate finds his voice Titan of the TidesFirst-generation student dives into research with confidence Titan of Rescue500 lives saved, thanks to an entrepreneurial CSUF student Titan of ExpressionCSUF artist finds her inspiration and herself What does it take to elevate the potential of such remarkable students? It Takes a Titan - a Titan like you! Cal State Fullerton is the catalyst for Titan-sized transformations, inspiring students’ paths, launching careers and improving lives. The university's first-ever comprehensive philanthropic campaign “It Takes a Titan,” is an opportunity for you to be the difference in a Titan’s life. About the CampaignWhy Give Investment Priorities "It Takes a Titan: The Campaign for Cal State Fullerton" supports initiatives in these four key areas: Academic InnovationPreparing Students for a Changing World Campus TransformationCreating the Ultimate Learning Environment Community EnrichmentReaching Out to Orange County Student EmpowermentIncreasing Opportunities for Titans Colleges and Units See how you can be the difference for students in these campus areas: College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs For more information, contact: University Advancement 657-278-5287 | giving@fullerton.edu This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU Loading...