Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titan of the Tides “ “Cal State Fullerton has changed my life for the better. My faculty mentors helped me become who I am today: a confident and driven Latina researcher. I will always appreciate them for believing in me, when I didn’t believe in myself.” Biology graduate student Evelyn Bond studies the oval-shaped, silvery surfperch to better understand reproductive biology. She’s won accolades for her marine research and received a prestigious National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. She didn’t always think becoming an award-winning researcher was within reach though. Evelyn quit community college because of failing grades — and almost gave up. She buckled down and returned, earned a 3.5 GPA and transferred to Cal State Fullerton. Her experience in the donor-supported Southern California Ecosystems Research Program, which prepares undergraduates in ecology or environmental biology, changed her life. It gave her self-assurance to succeed academically, present research at national conferences and publish findings in scientific journals. She is now considering a doctoral degree. Without a doubt, she wants a career in marine research and hopes to start a nonprofit to help other underrepresented students earn science degrees. Be the difference in a Titan's life. Support hands-on research in the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics today. Donate Now Receive Updates For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Michael Karg Executive Director of Development mkarg@fullerton.edu 657-278-3348 Watch Video This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU