Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titans of Trade Working with almost $2 million in assets, students in the Titan Capital Management program at Cal State Fullerton get firsthand experience in securities analysis and portfolio management — and a competitive edge in the workplace. For finance students seeking future careers as investors, securities analysts or money managers, there’s no better return on investment than participation in TCM, the university’s premier student-run investment program. Using the same market data that drives trading floors, global finance and investment operations, TCM students evaluate the economic landscape and potential investments and make recommendations before purchasing in real time. Making savvy choices matters, because proceeds from the program benefit CSUF students, supporting a university scholarship and the business college’s tutoring center. With Titan Capital Management, Titans get the investment skills valued by employers and are ready to contribute on the job from day one. Be the difference. Help support Titan Capital Management at Cal State Fullerton today. Donate Now Receive Updates For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Carlos Leija Associate Vice President cleija@fullerton.edu 657-278-4869 This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU