Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Campus Return Search What to Expect Students and Parents Employees Instructors International Students Visitors Dashboards Planning Covid-19 Prevention Plan Events and Gatherings Planning Framework News & Announcements Campus Return Videos Resources Environmental Health & Safety Student Health Remote Work Teaching@UCR COVID Notify Riverside County COVID-19 Health & Safety Testing Vaccines Screening Check Face Coverings Case Reporting and Investigation What to Expect - Employees Breadcrumb What to Expect - Employees A Safe Return to Campus Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, UC Riverside has been guided by three principles – personal health, community health, and incremental decision making. As the university increases on-campus operations, these principles will continue to guide the campus. See March 11 message about COVID-19 guidelines for spring quarter. UCR is committed to delivering in-person instruction, research opportunities, and student support services wherever possible. As a nationally-ranked residential public research university, an on-campus presence is essential to successfully advance our mission of instruction, research, and public service. Most classes will be delivered in-person for spring quarter. Campus gathering and student support venues, including libraries, Student Recreation Center, Highlander Union Building, bookstore, dining spaces, and residence halls, are open. All members of the campus community – including students, staff, and faculty – must adhere to public health and safety guidelines upon their return to the UCR campus. The circumstances around COVID-19 are rapidly changing, and campus guidelines will continue to evolve as guidance from local, state, and national health authorities are updated. Please continue to visit the Campus Return site for updated information with specifics about operations on campus. Spring Quarter FAQs Can I get a COVID test on campus? Yes. Location, hours of operations and instructions are available on our testing page. Where can employees obtain additional free face coverings/masks? Employees can request free face coverings from Environmental Health & Safety. Can I host an event on campus? Yes. Events and gatherings guidance can be found here. Are resources available for instructors to assist with remote instruction? Yes. The Teaching@UCR site provides resources on revising your course for remote instruction, including key details on technologies and teaching strategies. RETURN GUIDELINES Strict adherence to health and safety standards. Personal and institutional health and safety standards for on-campus activities will be in place, consistent with applicable public health guidelines. This likely will include correct use of face coverings, testing, and vaccinations. All on-campus activities, and anyone participating in these activities, will be required to strictly adhere to these standards. Planning to offer most courses in-person. Smaller classes would be offered with normal classroom seating, larger courses would have reduced seating density, and our largest courses would remain remote. Graduate students would have almost all of their courses in-person. A commitment not to switch remote classes to in-person on short notice. Classes initially scheduled for remote instruction in fall will not be shifted to in-person if public health conditions improve more than expected. However, if conditions do not improve as expected, classes initially scheduled for in-person instruction may be shifted to remote. VACCINATIONS The University of California has finalized a policy to require vaccinations of all students and employees accessing campus facilities at all UC locations, including UC Riverside. More information about vaccinations can be found here. COVID-19 TESTING UC Riverside will require routine COVID-19 testing for select groups of students and employees on campus – including everyone who is unvaccinated (with approved exemptions), symptomatic, or with a confirmed exposure to someone with COVID-19. Optional testing will also be available. Testing requirements and locations can be found here. HEALTH & WELLNESS Anyone on campus must follow all health and safety protocols. WORKPLACE FLEXIBILITY We continue to expect more workplace flexibility than existed pre-pandemic. Specific decisions about on-campus and remote work will happen at the organizational level. Updated parking permit options will be available. Details available here. GATHERINGS Events and gatherings have resumed. The university released events and gatherings guidance to provide specific direction on which types of indoor and outdoor gatherings will be permitted on campus. TRAINING In compliance with California Department Public Health (CDPH) and Cal/OSHA requirements all employees are required to complete an online COVID-19 prevention training through the UC Learning Center. TRAVEL Employee travel may resume. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Feedback Environmental Health and Safety Facility Services Human Resources Keep Researching Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel