Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom “I owe all of my success at CSUF to Abrego Future Scholars. It gave me a sense of belonging and helped shape me into the individual I am today. The group is like my family.” Growing up, Kimberly Cruz was mocked by classmates for her interest in academics and going to college. Undeterred, she enrolled at Cal State Fullerton and applied for the Abrego Future Scholars program, which provides scholarships, academic resources and mentorship for first-generation, underrepresented students. Continue Reading $ Watch VideoWatch Video Having such support helped the communications major persist when she struggled with finding her place on campus, addressing her anxiety and depression, and overcoming the financial, academic and social challenges of the pandemic. Today, Kimberly is a proud Titan graduate, and one step closer to achieving her dream of becoming a TV news anchor. Be the difference in a Titan's life. CSUF’s Abrego Future Scholars program provides underrepresented students with resources for succeeding in higher education. Help empower student success by supporting the Abrego Future Scholars program.Donate Now Become a Titan. Learn about CSUF's affordable education. Stay Connected $ Subscribe $<!-- -->Facebook $<!-- -->Twitter $<!-- -->Instagram $<!-- -->Linkedin For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Katie McGill Executive Director of Development kmcgill@fullerton.edu 657-278-8231 Read more stories of Resilience This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU