Skip to content Masks remain required indoors on the Ann Arbor campus in patient care areas and at on-campus COVID-19 testing sites. Masks are optional for all other areas on campus. Read more Vaccine Prevention, Testing & Care FAQs Messages U-M COVID-19 Data Search 2021-22 CAMPUS Maize & Blueprint Messages Apr 29, 2022 April 29, 2022, Campus COVID-19 Update COVID-19 cases trend down as the winter term wraps; masking is optional on campus except select areas; and tips for those planning to travel abroad during Summer 2022. Also, learn what actions the community can take to prevent spread of COVID-19. Apr 27, 2022 Important: Updated U-M COVID-19 policies We are writing to share important changes to COVID-19 policies that apply to all students, faculty and staff on the Ann Arbor campus. Apr 21, 2022 April 21, 2022, Campus COVID-19 Update COVID-19 cases on campus remain elevated. Learn what actions the community can take to prevent spread of COVID-19. Updates on international travel, mask requirements and spring/summer term policies. View all messages U-M COVID-19 News May 7, 2022 Fauci to comeback graduates: Fight ‘the normalization of untruths’ In a bid to help fix a divided country, Anthony Fauci encouraged the University of Michigan’s Comeback Commencement crowd to challenge untru... Apr 27, 2022 U-M updates mask guidelines, other COVID-19 policies Wearing a mask will soon be optional on the three University of Michigan campuses, except for selected areas on the Ann Arbor campus, under ... Apr 4, 2022 Campus briefs UM-Flint welcomes new director of Frances Willson Thompson Library Jennifer Dean has joined UM-Flint as director of the Frances Willson Thom... View more COVID-19 coverage on The Record Website Top Frequently Asked Questions When should I get my COVID-19 booster, and what type of booster should I get? Timing and type of a COVID-19 booster depends on which primary series you received, which the CDC outlined here. Please note: If you have a known COVID-19 infection, you should defer your booster shot at least until you have recovered (if symptoms were present) and have met the criteria to end your isolation. Which primary series COVID-19 vaccine did you receive? When can you receive your COVID-19 booster? What type of COVID-19 booster should you get? Pfizer 5 months after you finished your primary series Pfizer or Moderna recommended, J&J ok in some situations Moderna 5 months after you finished your primary series Pfizer or Moderna recommended, J&J ok in some situations Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) 2 months after you finished your primary series Pfizer or Moderna recommended, J&J ok in some situations Pfizer/Moderna 5 months after you finished your primary series Pfizer or Moderna recommended, J&J ok in some situations WHO-authorized series 5 months after you finished your primary series Pfizer WHO-authorized mix and match series 5 months after you finished your primary series Pfizer Boosters shot need to be received within 30 days of eligibility to meet the university requirements. Reminder: Bring your COVID-19 vaccination card to your booster shot appointment so your provider can fill in the information about your booster dose. What should be done if someone tests positive for COVID-19 (in the classroom, at an event, etc.)? Individuals who test positive will need to isolate for at least 5 days from their test date and follow isolation guidance outlined here. When an individual tests positive from a U-M testing source (UHS, OHS or CSTP), or reports a positive test result from an off-campus testing source to the university, they will be sent guidance which includes the direction to notify all individuals who they may have been in close contact with during their infectious period of their positive result. Note: The individual may not have been infectious while around others. If faculty members, departments or units choose to notify others of a positive case, they should not identify individuals by name. Students, faculty and staff — regardless of vaccination status — no longer need to quarantine following a close contact exposure but should self-monitor for symptoms for 10 days. If positive in the classroom, it is the individual's responsibility to notify the instructor that they are not able to attend class due to illness. Faculty should continue to provide academic support to all students during this period. The Dean of Students Office can provide support to the student. More information on how to self-monitor following a close contact exposure or isolate can be found here. Quarantine and Isolation Guidance What does it mean to Quarantine or Isolate? Isolation and quarantine help protect the public by preventing exposure to people who have or may have a contagious disease. Isolation separates sick people with a contagious disease from people who are not sick. Quarantine separates and restricts the movement of people who were exposed to a contagious disease to see if they become sick. Updated guidance from the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services states individuals — regardless of vaccination status — no longer need to quarantine following a close contact exposure but should self-monitor for symptoms for 10 days. Those who experience exposure from contact in their living environment should wear a mask when around others for 10 days AND get tested 3-7 days after exposure or if symptoms develop*. Others should consider wearing a mask for 10 days, at a minimum, in settings with higher risk of exposing vulnerable individuals.* Individuals who work in health care settings must still follow health care guidance per the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Michigan Medicine employees can discontinue isolation 7 days from symptom onset or test date (if asymptomatic) as long as they have no fever for 24 hours without fever-reducing medication and symptoms have improved. A negative test is NOT required prior to returning to work. View all FAQs Campus Conversations Check out the latest videos featuring U-M leaders and experts providing tips and information about staying safe and healthy so we can stay together on campus this year. Go Blue! View all Videos Campus Maize and Blueprint Ann Arbor | Dearborn | Flint 500 South State Street Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA Frequently Contacted Departments The Campus COVID-19 Call Center serves the campus community by connecting them to U-M resources and support during the pandemic. To reach the call center, please call 734-936-7000. Call center hours are 9 a.m. to 8 p.m., seven days a week. Campus Plans View UM-Ann Arbor Plans View UM-Dearborn Plans View UM-Flint Plans View Michigan Medicine Plans Contact Us © 2022 The Regents of the University of Michigan Produced by Michigan Creative, a unit of the Office of the Vice President for Communications