Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Share Your Story! At NC State, we do work that matters. We’re problem-solvers. And with the support of our alumni and friends, we’re unstoppable. Private support allows us to think beyond boundaries and do the extraordinary. You push us toward our full potential and we want to share your story. Help us inspire others by sharing: Your connection to NC State along with one or more of the following: Tips for Sharing Your Video Story: Hold your phone horizontally. Natural light is best. Make sure the light is on your face and not behind you. Film somewhere quiet with a simple background. Look into the camera, not at yourself on the screen. What you support (scholarships, fellowships, research, programs, a college, etc.) and why How someone at NC State invested in your success or gave you an opportunity What the Memorial Belltower means to you or your favorite Belltower memory or photo If selected, your story and/or photo may appear in both internal and external university communications channels, including websites (such as campaign.ncsu.edu), social media and print publications. We also invite you to use the #CampaignNCState hashtag on social media to share your story. Name* Mr.Mrs.MissMs.Dr.Prof.Rev. Prefix First Name Last Name Email* Phone Share Your Story Photo Upload Upload a photo that may accompany your story (optional). Recommended photo dimensions: 1500px by 844px. Accepted file types: jpg, jpeg, png, Max. file size: 16 MB. Video Upload Upload a video that may accompany your story (optional). Maximum file size: 64MB. Accepted file types: mov, mp4, Max. file size: 64 MB. Would you like to receive Campaign news stories via email? Yes Submit Δ Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.