Rec Connect Menu Home Features Misson & Values Inclusivity The FSU Rec App Rec Connect Help Desk Active Anywhere Feature Articles Donate to Campus Rec + Fitness Memberships Personal Training Meet The Trainers Fitness Coaching PT Sessions Fitness Assessments + Small Group Training F45 Training Olympic Lifting PT+ Sessions Start to Fitness + Group Fitness Group Fitness Schedule F45 Schedule Group Fitness Registration + Aquatics Leach Pool & Spa CPR & First Aid Courses Swim Lessons Lifeguard Training Instructor Training 100-Mile Club SCUBA + Leach Center & FMC + Sports Intramural Sports IMLeagues Login IM Team Registration + Get Involved Team Captain Tips Wait List Information IM Free Agents + Sport Details & Rules IM Principles + Sport Clubs Club Information Forming a New Club Resource Center Important Dates Rosters and Waivers + Sport Club Donations + Athletic Training Sports Facilities Hours & Directions Facility Info + + Outdoors Rez Lakefront Park Park Hours Directions to The Rez Activities & Fees Facility Policies Facility Requests & Rentals + Outdoor Pursuits FSU Challenge Course Themes & Rates + Camp Flastacowo + Facilities Current Facility Status Leach Center & FMC Fitness Facility Hours Guests & Family Members Services Racquet Sports Courts Facility Policies + Leach Pool & Spa Fitness Facility Hours Aquatics Programs + Sports Facilities Sport Facility Hours Directions to RSP Facility Policies Facility Requests & Rentals + Rez Lakefront Park Park Hours Directions to the Rez Activities & Fees Facility Policies Facility Requests & Rentals + + Jobs & Staff Job Opportunities Contact Us Meet Our Team SGA Rec Board Alumni News + Campus Rec News We’re Back! Campus Rec Facilities Open for Summer The Leach Center, Main Campus Fields, Westside Court, and the Rez: FSU’s Lakefront Park have all reopened for the summer for current FSU students and Campus Rec members. Stop by and get your workouts restarted, don’t forget your FSUCard or download our FSU Rec app and login to scan in at the entrance. Visit our facility hours page for the operational schedule of all our facilities this month, check our facility counts page to see how busy our facilities are throughout the day, and view our facility status page for live web cams of our outdoor facilities including weather updates. Register Your Kids Now for Camp Flastacowo Ready to make memories that will last a lifetime? Registration for Camp Flastacowo, the only ACA accredited summer camp in Tallahassee, is now open. Our outdoor adventure camp will host a day camp for ages 8-13 and an advanced camp for ages 13-17 for eight weeks in June and July. Both camps take place at the beautiful FSU Rez Lakefront Park starting June 6. Check out more details at campusrec.fsu.edu/camp. Summer A Group Fitness Schedule Now Available From barre to cycling, total body sculpt to yoga, our Group Fitness program offers nearly 2 dozen class sessions each week! Focus on cardio, strength, mind & body, or any combination in one of our many different class formats. Sign-up 25 hours in advance for a class in our FSU Rec mobile app or through the Rec Connect web portal and get in a great workout with 11 to 50 people in about an hour. FREE for FSU students and Campus Rec members! View the Summer A Group Fitness Class Schedule, online now! Student Staff Honored During Night of Recognition Banquet Campus Recreation honored its top student employees, recognized outgoing graduate assistants, and announced winners of its service and leadership scholarships during its annual Night of Recognition banquet on Wednesday, April 20th. View the winners on our Staff Awards page. Facility Hours View our regular summer operational hours and special hours for holidays & break periods. Facility Counts See how busy our facilities are before you arrive with our live facility counts. Facility Status Check the status of our outdoor facilities, view live webcams, and get the latest weather. New FSU Rec App Download the FSU Rec mobile app to check-in at our facilities, register for classes & programs, and more. We are FSU Campus Recreation. We’re here to enrich your experience at Florida State University. There’s a strong connection between mental and physical wellness. Whether it’s in sports, fitness, or outdoors, our goal is to help you find what moves you. fsucampusrec fsucampusrec fsucampusrec Fitness is more than exercising. Finding your favorite way to move is essential to your college success. It’s more than breaking a sweat – exercise helps you sleep better, lowers stress levels, and increases focus. Hit the gym on your own, get a fitness coach or personal trainer, workout with friends in a small group, join a fitness class, take a swim, or relax in the spa. There’s something for every interest and ability in Campus Rec! Leach Center & FMC Info Group Fitness & Personal Training Leach Pool & Aquatics Programs We’ve got an Outdoors adventure for you. Our Outdoor Recreation programs create unique experiences on-campus, at the Rez, and all across the southeast. Whether you complete a Challenge teambuilding course, kayak on Lake Bradford, or take a trip with Outdoor Pursuits; each experience is built to develop new skills, enhance your appreciation of the wilderness, adapt to new and challenging situations, and build lifelong relationships. Rez Lakefront Park Current Hours & Available Amenities Outdoor Pursuits FSU Challenge Programs Get in the game with Intramural Sports and Sport Clubs. Play to win, play for fun, play year-round. Whether you’ve never played before, or you want to continue with your favorite sport, we have opportunities to get involved. Our two sport programs, Intramural Sports and Sport Clubs, offer different experiences and sport offerings. Or, just join a pick-up game at one of our four outdoor sports facilities. Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Sport Facilities Athletic Training Search Quick Links Active Anywhere Virtual Resources University News and Alerts Call Us Leach Center: 850.644.0548 Fitness & Movement Clinic: 850.645.0601 Intramural Sports: 850.644.2430 Sport Clubs & Facilities: 850.644.7902 Rez Lakefront Park: 850.644.6892 Outdoor Pursuits: 850.644.2449 Contact Us Email the Campus Recreation Staff Mailing Address: 210 Leach Center, 118 Varsity Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-4290 © 2021 Florida State University · Privacy Policy · Questions FSU.edu Weather SGA NIRSA