Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom “Cal State Fullerton changes the world one student at a time. Professors pressed me forward and showed care through mentoring. My research taught me to recognize injustice and to resist fiercely.” Karla Aguirre was raised in fear and uncertainty because of political unrest in her parents’ home country. Continue Reading $ Education was her path to the American dream. As a teen parent, she enrolled in community college and persevered to become the first in her family to earn a college degree, paving the way for other relatives. At Cal State Fullerton, Karla completed her fourth degree — a doctorate in education — and awakened to social justice. Through her mentors and research on educational practices in post-apartheid South Africa, she was empowered to fight against marginalization and strive for equity and opportunity for all. Today, Karla lives her purpose as a school counselor and founder of a nonprofit youth mentoring program, modeling resilience and championing an equitable future for all. Be the difference in a Titan's life. Support the College of Education today.Donate Now Become a Titan. Learn about CSUF's affordable education. Stay Connected $ Subscribe $<!-- -->Facebook $<!-- -->Twitter $<!-- -->Instagram $<!-- -->Linkedin For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Lisa Miller Associate Director of Development limiller@fullerton.edu 657-278-2897 Katie McGill Executive Director of Development kmcgill@fullerton.edu 657-278-8231 This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU