Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Play Video Our Promise of Access Imagine a bold, confident Wolfpack filled with students of every background, preparing for success without financial worry. Imagine a state where talent is never wasted and possibility never feels out of reach. With the Extraordinary Opportunity Scholarship Initiative, this vision can become reality. Empowering more North Carolinians – of every family background and economic situation – with the opportunity to earn a college degree has always been at the heart of our land-grant mission to solve problems and fuel prosperity. Support need-based scholarships Every student deserves an extraordinary opportunity.Give Now While we are recognized for our affordability, the average annual need per student is $16,000, and a student cannot hope to cover this cost through summer jobs or by working during the school year. More than 70% of undergraduates apply for financial aid each year, and more than 50% of undergraduates qualify for need-based aid based on federal guidelines. With the Extraordinary Opportunity Scholarship Initiative (EOSI), we’re coming together to make sure that every accepted student can make the most out of their chance to join the Pack – because when we give first-generation students and students from low- to middle-income families the opportunity to succeed by removing financial barriers, the results are extraordinary. 90+ students have received EOSI scholarships across the spring and fall 2021 semesters. Donor Recognition Need-Based Scholarship Initiative Gets $5 Million Boost The Extraordinary Opportunity Scholarship Initiative is gaining momentum via $2.5 million gifts from alumnus Steve Angel and an anonymous donor, bolstering a matching-funds pool. Read More There is unmet need for our students here on campus. Being able to close that gap and meet those needs would be incredible for supporting our students and would be an unbelievable investment in the university and in the state. Krista Ringler, associate vice provost for scholarships and financial aid Learn more about student need at NC State through a Q&A with Krista Impact Stepping Out Front Though the road at NC State wasn't always smooth for alumna Kalysha Clark Wall, the journey helped her find her voice as an advocate. Learn more about how Kalysha continues to advocate for students Opening Doors, Fulfilling Dreams Meet some of our inaugural EOSI recipients, as well as other extraordinary students and alumni who have benefited from need-based support. Extraordinary Opportunity: Nataly Vazquez Perez As one of the inaugural recipients of the Extraordinary Opportunity Scholarship, Nataly Vazquez Perez sees a bigger, bolder path from her first year at NC State to a future career as a lawyer. Read more Handling Any Challenge Whether forging a path to NC State or handling cobras, zoology major and Park Scholar Carley-Martin MacFarlane '21 doesn’t back down. Read more Through the Darkness to Shine a Light To become the first in her family to earn a degree, Esmira Poladova persevered through tragedy and challenges and, as an NC State senior, even became an advocate for other underresourced students. Read more Achieving Major Goals Financial support has allowed first-generation student Thomas Peters to pursue his love for music as drum major for NC State’s marching band and his goal of a career in information technology. Read more Ready to Put Science to Work Research and other opportunities at NC State have helped Daniela Fontecha, a double major in physics and chemistry, discover a passion for using science to improve the environment. Read more Extraordinary Opportunity: Rome Williams NC State defensive tackle Rome Williams is the recipient of a new type of financial aid that allows him to play for the Pack while preparing for life after football. The only thing more impactful than this student-athlete is his scholarship. Read more A Vision for Doing Good Layne Baker, a first-generation college student from rural North Carolina and member of the class of 2019, used his time at NC State and in the Caldwell Fellows program to show others in a similar situation that college is attainable for them as well. Read more An Opportunity Multiplied Need-based scholarship support, as well as resources from TRIO and Pack Essentials, helped Indira Gutierrez ’19 develop into a scholar, researcher and advocate dedicated to helping others. Read more Finding Her Natural Place, Beyond Boundaries Pack Promise helped zoology alum Brianna Sorber pursue extraordinary experiences at NC State, including study abroad in Australia and an internship in conservation education. Read more Opportunities Adding Up Yussef Guerrab hopes to blend interests in math, statistics, education and public policy into a career helping others. Read more Busy Turning Dreams into Reality From Europe to Mexico, and plenty of places in between, Toinette Powers is taking advantage of opportunities to lay the foundation for a wide-ranging future. Read more Forecast: High Probability of Success As a child, Clay Chaney loved watching meteorologists. Now, thanks to his opportunity to attend NC State, he is one himself. Read more A ‘Big Red Letter’ Changed Everything Nutrition science major Dorcas Mabiala’s extraordinary experiences at NC State have included undergraduate research and involvement with the Albright Entrepreneurs Village, University Tutorial Center and TRIO Support Services. Read more Accounting for Needs Two-time alumnus Dominick Vaccaro, who is working toward becoming a CPA, is thankful for the leadership opportunities and resources he enjoyed at NC State. Read more A Commitment to Citizenship and Service Attending an overnight stay hosted by Women and Minority Engineering Programs showed Kaitlin Perkins a support system that would help her succeed – and lead. Read more Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.