Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Campus Return Search What to Expect Students and Parents Employees Instructors International Students Visitors Dashboards Planning Covid-19 Prevention Plan Events and Gatherings Planning Framework News & Announcements Campus Return Videos Resources Environmental Health & Safety Student Health Remote Work Teaching@UCR COVID Notify Riverside County COVID-19 Health & Safety Testing Vaccines Screening Check Face Coverings Case Reporting and Investigation What to Expect - Visitors Breadcrumb What to Expect - Visitors Visitors on Campus If you are not a UC Riverside student or employee, please connect with your university point of contact for specific health and safety precautions that should be taken before coming to campus. Safety protocols for visitors have been established in alignment with county and state guidelines. The use of face coverings indoors are strongly encouraged for those who are up to date on vaccinations, which includes receiving all recommended COVID-19 vaccines, including any booster dose when eligible. Face coverings indoors will remain required for anyone who is not up to date on vaccinations as well as in specific high-risk settings. All individuals are required to wear face coverings over the nose and mouth at all times indoors in the following high-risk settings. On public transit (examples: airplanes, ships, ferries, trains, subways, buses, taxis, and ride-shares) and in transportation hubs (examples: airport, bus terminal, marina, train station, seaport or other port, subway station, or any other area that provides transportation). Healthcare settings (e.g. Student Health Services, Counseling and Psychological Services) State and local correctional facilities and detention centers Homeless shelters Long term care settings and Adult and Senior Care Facilities Emergency shelters and cooling and heating centers Please do not visit the campus if you have: Experienced COVID-19 symptoms in the past 10 days Tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 10 days New guidance is now available regarding on-campus events and gatherings. If you cannot come to campus for a student-led tour, several video and virtual campus tours are available on our campus tours website. The circumstances around COVID-19 are rapidly changing, and campus guidelines will continue to evolve as guidance from local, state, and national health authorities are updated. Please continue to visit the Campus Return site for updated information with specifics about operations on campus. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Feedback Environmental Health and Safety Facility Services Human Resources Keep Researching Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel