Skip to main content Penn Home A-Z Directory Emergency Policies Webmail Search query Search Menu Menu Search Health & Wellness Student Health Service Wellness Partners Counseling and Psychological Services Alcohol and Other Drug Initiatives Student Disabilities Services Campus Health Student Intervention Services Penn Violence Prevention SHS Home Campus Health Campus Health Previous Photo Next Photo About this photo Close Campus Health Welcome to Public Health and Wellbeing Contact Us Disease Surveillance Health Policy Student Groups SHS Home Welcome to Public Health and Wellbeing! Public Health and Wellbeing is continuing to offer our innovative and evidence based programming to students, whether you’re on campus or participating online. We are committing to helping you stay well and live well. In addition to Refresh (our online, sleep intervention) and Sex Well Online (our new, online, sexual health education program), check out our online guided meditations available “on demand” for use at any time. Here are two videos with messages of support and hope we created with campus colleagues: About Campus Health Public Health and Wellbeing is the University of Pennsylvania’s public health office, providing the entire Penn community with disease surveillance and prevention, health education and promotion, and policies that make the healthy choice the easy choice. We work collaboratively to produce evidence-based and data-driven outcomes. Our vision, mission, core principles, and priorities are outlined in our strategic plan. We even have a Student Health Advisory Board (SHAB) that acts as a liaison between the students at Penn and our office in order to better meet your needs. Explore our programs and schedule your health education workshop! Public Health and Wellbeing has created 9 core programs. Click each icon for the program title and for more information on our policies, resources, and services. Schedule your Health Education Workshop Interested in exploring other areas of wellness? Check out the Wellness at Penn intiative. Welcome to Public Health and Wellbeing Contact Us Disease Surveillance Health Policy Student Groups SHS Home Follow us We're on Facebook and InstagramGo Making History: The Campaign for Penn Helpful Links Academic Calendar Admissions Athletics Campus Maps College Houses Diversity at Penn Financial Aid Media Requests Penn News Public Safety Student Groups Work at Penn | Student Jobs © 2019 Counseling and Psychological Services at the University of Pennsylvania 3624 Market St. 1st Floor West, Philadelphia, PA 19104 1 (215) 898-7021 Contact CAPS Copyright | Privacy | Disclaimer | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help