Rec Connect Menu Home Features Misson & Values Inclusivity The FSU Rec App Rec Connect Help Desk Active Anywhere Feature Articles Donate to Campus Rec + Fitness Memberships Personal Training Meet The Trainers Fitness Coaching PT Sessions Fitness Assessments + Small Group Training F45 Training Olympic Lifting PT+ Sessions Start to Fitness + Group Fitness Group Fitness Schedule F45 Schedule Group Fitness Registration + Aquatics Leach Pool & Spa CPR & First Aid Courses Swim Lessons Lifeguard Training Instructor Training 100-Mile Club SCUBA + Leach Center & FMC + Sports Intramural Sports IMLeagues Login IM Team Registration + Get Involved Team Captain Tips Wait List Information IM Free Agents + Sport Details & Rules IM Principles + Sport Clubs Club Information Forming a New Club Resource Center Important Dates Rosters and Waivers + Sport Club Donations + Athletic Training Sports Facilities Hours & Directions Facility Info + + Outdoors Rez Lakefront Park Park Hours Directions to The Rez Activities & Fees Facility Policies Facility Requests & Rentals + Outdoor Pursuits FSU Challenge Course Themes & Rates + Camp Flastacowo + Facilities Current Facility Status Leach Center & FMC Fitness Facility Hours Guests & Family Members Services Racquet Sports Courts Facility Policies + Leach Pool & Spa Fitness Facility Hours Aquatics Programs + Sports Facilities Sport Facility Hours Directions to RSP Facility Policies Facility Requests & Rentals + Rez Lakefront Park Park Hours Directions to the Rez Activities & Fees Facility Policies Facility Requests & Rentals + + Jobs & Staff Job Opportunities Contact Us Meet Our Team SGA Rec Board Alumni News + FSU Challenge Program Home Outdoor Recreation FSU Challenge Program Challenge Programming Here at FSU Challenge, experiential education, safety, and fun are at the heart of everything we do, whether you’re 40 feet in the air on our high ropes course, a couple feet off the ground on the low course, or fully on the ground in an express teambuilding program. We can develop an interactive, experiential teambuilding program customized to meet your specific needs. Many unique groups utilize the course, including FSU organizations, community groups, businesses, and beyond. Your team could be the next to conquer the course, register today! Request a Recreational Program Request a Team Building Program View Challenge Rates and Themes Participant Waiver Fill out this form to participate Contact Us Have questions? Call us and ask Challenge Course Map Take a look at our Challenge Course Team Building Programs Our Team Building programs offer groups the opportunity to work through challenges with specific learning outcomes in mind. Our facilitators will tailor the activities to your team, allowing them to take the lessons they’ve learned on the course back to the office, classroom, and real life. Express Courses Low Challenge Courses High Challenge Courses Combination Courses Off-Site Programs Express Courses Express Courses provide two hours of low-risk challenges in an open-field setting. Great option for groups looking to pair a challenge course with another activity at the FSU Rez, such as a picnic or paddling excursion. Request an Express Course (1-2 Hours) Low Challenge Courses Low Challenge Courses provide low-risk challenges in a combination of field and wooded settings. Low challenge activities are the foundation for building effective teamwork and may incorporate balancing, jumping, or climbing on special structures. Each activity can be adapted to accommodate most ability types, and participant safety is supervised by trained facilitators. During the program, time is taken to discuss the experience and relate the experiences back to “real world” situations. (3-4 Hours) Request a Low Challenge Course High Challenge Courses High Challenge Courses provide low-risk challenges with activities that may be conducted at a height of approximately 40 feet. Participants will be secured on a belay device with constant supervision from a trained facilitator. High challenge courses may incorporate balancing, jumping, or climbing on special structures. Each activity can be adapted to accommodate most ability types, and participant safety is supervised by trained facilitators. A high challenge course may be an ideal option for groups looking to give participants a combination of group and individual challenges. *For participation in High Challenge Course activities, participants must weigh between 50 pounds and 280 pounds, and be able to appropriately fit into our safety equipment. Please contact us with any questions your group members may have. (3-4 Hours) Request a High Challenge Course Combination Courses Combination Courses begin with Low Challenge Course activities followed by a High Course adventure. This is a great option for any group looking for the best of both experiences! *For participation in High Challenge Course activities, participants must weigh between 50 pounds and 280 pounds, and be able to appropriately fit into our safety equipment. Please contact us with any questions your group members may have. (3-4 Hours) Request a Combination Challenge Course Off-Site Programs Off-Site Programs are available upon request. Our facilitators will come to your location in the Tallahassee area to lead teambuilding activities. Activities may be limited depending on group size and location. Simply submit a request to get the conversation started on how we can help meet your teambuilding needs! Request an Off-Site Program Recreational Programs Our Recreational programs are designed for one reason, to have fun! If you’re searching for a place for your team to enjoy each others company and experience an adrenaline rush together, this is the option for you. Whatever the occasion, all sized groups are welcome to come out and participate in our programs. Climbing Wall Zip Jump Giant Swing Climbing Wall Climbing Wall Rental: Are you wanting to add some excitement to your upcoming event out at the Rez? Whether you are having birthday party or company retreat, come and get vertical at our 40 foot climbing wall. Our 3 hour wall rental includes all of the necessary climbing equipment along with two of our climbing instructors to teach you the basics, belay you up the wall, and keep you safe. Our wall allows for multiple climbers at once and is a great option for all ages. We have had participants as old as 93 and young as 3 years old come and give it a try. Climbing Wall Hours: Saturday and Sunday (1 – 5 PM) during the Spring and Fall semesters Saturday and Sunday (1 – 5 PM) during the Summer (June & July) The Climbing Wall is closed from Thanksgiving Break through Spring Break. However, the wall is available for groups upon request via this link. *For participation in Climbing Wall activities, participants must weigh under 280 pounds, and be able to appropriately fit into our safety equipment. Please contact us with any questions your group members may have. (3 Hour Rental) Request the Climbing Wall Zip Jump Zip Jump Rental: This ain’t your grandma’s zip line. Our Zip Jump takes the excitement of zip line and pairs it with the adrenaline rush of a quick rappel. After you climb up our 40 ft tower you will have two choices, our Ripper or our TruBlu. Our Ripper involves one big step into thin air, followed by a 10 foot freefall. After the free fall your rope tightens up and the ride ends with big swing down the ground level. If you are not feeling the free fall option, our TruBlu begins to lower you as soon as you step off of the platform, resulting in a longer, more scenic ride down to the ground. The Zip Jump Rental is 3 hours allows for members of your group to do each option as many times as they would like. *For participation in Zip Jump activities, participants must weigh under 280 pounds, be at least 8 years old, and be able to appropriately fit into our safety equipment. Please contact us with any questions your group members may have. (3 Hour Rental) Request the Zip Jump Giant Swing The Giant Swing Rental: If the swings were your favorite activity at the playground, then you are going to love ours! Your adventure begins by climbing up our 40 ft tower. Upon reaching the top, our facilitators will clip you into The Giant Swing which puts your average playground swing to shame. Our nickname for it is “The Breath Taker,” and for good reason. Next comes one little hop off the platform and a giant 95 ft pendulum swing into the canopy. It is sure to take your breath away! The Giant Swing Rental is 3 hours in length and allows for members of your group to participate as many times as they would like. *For participation in The Giant Swing activity, participants must weigh under 280 pounds, be at least 8 years old, and be able to appropriately fit into our safety equipment. Please contact us with any questions your group members may have. (3 Hour Rental) Request the Giant Swing Search Quick Links Active Anywhere Virtual Resources University News and Alerts Call Us Leach Center: 850.644.0548 Fitness & Movement Clinic: 850.645.0601 Intramural Sports: 850.644.2430 Sport Clubs & Facilities: 850.644.7902 Rez Lakefront Park: 850.644.6892 Outdoor Pursuits: 850.644.2449 Contact Us Email the Campus Recreation Staff Mailing Address: 210 Leach Center, 118 Varsity Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-4290 © 2021 Florida State University · Privacy Policy · Questions FSU.edu Weather SGA NIRSA