Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titan of the Airwaves “ “My parents taught me how to ‘luchar.’ LCI taught me how to ‘luchar in the professional world’ — to overcome obstacles and be ready. It’s why I’m now at the No. 1 station in the second largest media market in the U.S.” First-generation student Eric Resendiz learned a lot about hard work and respect from his immigrant parents who came to Southern California from Mexico. What they couldn’t teach him, though, was how to navigate higher education and prepare for the world after graduation. That’s where Cal State Fullerton’s donor-supported Latino Communications Institute — an innovative program designed to prepare culturally-competent communications professionals — made the difference. LCI gave Eric the tools he needed to be career-ready: learning Spanish for media work, networking and mastering how to socialize in the professional world. He recalls role-playing exercises to prepare for key conversations with industry executives — which came in handy when he first met Disney CEO Bob Iger. Eric is grateful for the invaluable support of LCI, enabling him to learn, thrive and realize his broadcasting dreams. Be the difference in a Titan's life. Support Cal State Fullerton's Latino Communications Institute today. Donate Now Receive Updates For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Katie McGill Executive Director of Development kmcgill@fullerton.edu 657-278-8231 This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU