Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Why Give? Cal State Fullerton is delivering on the promise of higher education. We are the catalyst for Titan-sized transformations, inspiring students’ paths, launching careers and improving lives both on campus and in the community. We have achieved national leadership in providing access to quality education and opportunity to underrepresented students. Now, however, we face the daunting challenge of continuing to meet student needs sufficiently in the midst of declining state funding, a surging student population and aging campus infrastructure. Titans — the future of our community and nation — deserve better. That is why we are launching our first-ever comprehensive philanthropic campaign, “It Takes a Titan.” Declining Percentage of Education Cost Paid by State Skyrocketing Student Population Aging Campus Infrastructure “It Takes a Titan” is an opportunity for you to be the difference in the life of a student. Why support “It Takes a Titan”? Cal State Fullerton supporters shared their reasons at the campaign launch event. Why I Give For Dan Black ’67 (B.S. physics) and his grandson, Karl Freels ’12, ’17 (B.A., M.A. history), CSUF provided more than an education, and they have been inspired to give back. “ I want to help students. It’s rewarding that I play a role in their lives. - Dan Black “ Helping Titans is so important in putting them on the road to success so they can better our community and world. - Karl Freels Jeffrey Van Harte ’80 (B.A. business administration-finance) credits the university with shaping him and helping him achieve career success. He recognizes the life-changing power of CSUF — offering the American dream of equal opportunity. “ When you watch students get emotional because they never would have made it to where they are without the opportunities afforded them by the university, it confirms why you give back. Terry Giles ’70 (B.A. speech communication), says his experience at CSUF, particularly as a member of the debate team, prepared him well for life and for his successful career as a trial lawyer. “ I can relate to the majority of students at Cal State Fullerton as the first person in my family who went to college. When I was in school and connected with people who had been successful in their life, it gave me great hope that maybe I could do that someday. The support I give to Cal State Fullerton is about trying to pass on that hope to students — so that they can transform their life into anything that they want it to be. For more information, contact: University Advancement 657-278-5287 | giving@fullerton.edu This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU