Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Campus Return Search What to Expect Students and Parents Employees Instructors International Students Visitors Dashboards Planning Covid-19 Prevention Plan Events and Gatherings Planning Framework News & Announcements Campus Return Videos Resources Environmental Health & Safety Student Health Remote Work Teaching@UCR COVID Notify Riverside County COVID-19 Health & Safety Testing Vaccines Screening Check Face Coverings Case Reporting and Investigation COVID-19 Vaccines Breadcrumb COVID-19 Vaccines VACCINATIONS Vaccination Rates Student percentage excludes students who are fully remote and will not be on campus. Rates may fluctuate based on student registrations, new employees, and confirmation of full-time remote arrangements. Data is updated monthly. STUDENTS 97.0% EMPLOYEES 88.0% COMBINED 95.7% CONFIRM YOUR VACCINATION STATUS MyChart Troubleshooting Guide Student Vaccine Tracking Exemption Request (Students) Vaccine Availability Every Californian ages 12 and older is eligible for a booster vaccine under new guidance from the CDC, which recommends boosters for people who received the Pfizer or Moderna more than 5 months ago or Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) more than 2 months ago. To find a vaccination site in Riverside County, visit the Riverside County Public Health vaccine information page. Visit the Vaccine Finder site for information on vaccine and booster availability in your area. Students may also access vaccines at Student Health Services, adjacent to Lot 15. To schedule a COVID-19 vaccine appointment, please call Student Health Services at 951-827-3031. COVID-19 vaccine education resources are available here. Vaccine Policy FAQs (Employees) Vaccine Policy FAQs (Students) Vaccine Updates Submitting proof of COVID-19 booster to student portal Submitting proof of COVID-19 booster to new employee health system New guidance on COVID-19 vaccine boosters and third doses Please comply with vaccine mandate immediately Student COVID-19 vaccination noncompliance update Student vaccine submission deadline Employee vaccine submission deadline Vaccination policy update Vaccination requirement, submit your student vaccination record Vaccination requirement, submit your employee vaccination record UC Issues Final Vaccination Policy Time to vaccinate Vaccine Verification Video for Students COVID-19 Vaccine Tracking Form (Employees) UC Encourages COVID-19 Vaccinations for University Communities While Reviewing Policy Requirements All UCR Employees Now Eligible for COVID-19 Vaccine UC President Michael Drake on the COVID-19 vaccine Importance of Getting the COVID-19 Vaccine Por Qué Vacunarse Contra el COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccine Update Access to COVID-19 Vaccines on Campus Campus is Well Prepared to Store COVID-19 Vaccines Voices of the Vaccinated Chancellor’s COVID-19 Vaccine Update Biomedical Scientist Explains How COVID-19 Vaccines Work COVID-19 Campus Update UCR Vaccinates Frontline Healthcare Workers for COVID-19 Vaccine FAQs Where can I be vaccinated? Employees and students are encouraged to avail themselves of any vaccine that is available to them, whether through county vaccination clinics, personal physicians, or local pharmacies. Visit the Vaccine Finder site for information on vaccine and booster availability in your area. Students may also access vaccines at Student Health Services, adjacent to Lot 15. To schedule a COVID-19 vaccine appointment, please call Student Health Services at 951-827-3031. How do I request an exemption if I am an employee? Please contact the COVID Management team at CMT at covid19@ucr.edu or by calling 844-827-6827. Is COVID-19 vaccination mandatory at UCR? The final UC COVID vaccination policy can be found here. Are boosters required? All eligible employees and students must obtain a COVID-19 vaccination booster to remain in compliance with the UC vaccination policy. Information on who is eligible for a booster can be found here. How do I submit proof of having received a COVID-19 booster? Employees should submit proof of vaccination by Feb. 25 through the MyChart system. Those who have never previously activated a MyChart account received a message to their UCR email address from MyChart@healthmychart.org (with branding from our partners at UC San Diego Health) between January 19 and January 21. The email contains an instant activation link that you may click from either a mobile device or computer to begin activating your account. Once activated, click here to access instructions for uploading your information. If you have not received this message, please contact COVID19@medsch.ucr.edu for assistance. Students should submit proof of vaccination by Jan. 31 through the patient portal. More information on how to submit available here. How will the vaccine policy be enforced with students? Please review the this visual summary of how students will be held accountable for not complying with the UC vaccine policy. Why should I get vaccinated? Please review additional vaccine education materials found here, and videos by Vice Chancellors Deborah Deas and Rodolfo Torres for more information. If I get vaccinated do I still need to wear a face covering when on campus? Effective April 11, 2022, face coverings will be strongly recommended while indoors for those who are up to date with COVID-19 vaccinations, including any booster dose when eligible, and will remain required for anyone who is not up to date on vaccinations. Face coverings indoors will remain required for anyone who is not up to date on vaccinations, as well as, in specific high-risk settings. Are COVID-19 vaccines safe and do they work? Please visit the UCR Health COVID-19 FAQs page for detailed information about the effectiveness and safety of the vaccines. What can I expect after receiving the COVID-19 vaccine? More information about each approved COVID-19 vaccine can be found below: Moderna: English | en español Pfizer: English | en español Johnson & Johnson: English | en español Can I be vaccinated if I recently received another vaccine? You may not receive a vaccine if you are currently in isolation or quarantine for COVID-19, or if you have received another vaccine (e.g. flu, shingles, etc.) within the last 14 days. Do full-time remote employees need to comply with the UC vaccine mandate? Employees who work remotely full time must be in compliance with the UC vaccine mandate in order to come to the UCR campus or a UCR owned or operated facility. Employees will be in compliance if they provide proof of COVID-19 vaccine or are approved for an exemption. Full-time remote employees not in compliance are not permitted on campus. Once in compliance, all employees must complete the COVID Screening Check if reporting the result of a positive COVID-19 test, have COVID-like symptoms, exposed to someone who tested positive for COVID-19, or reporting the completion of required weekly COVID-19 test. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Feedback Environmental Health and Safety Facility Services Human Resources Keep Researching Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel