Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titan of Rescue “ “The Center for Entrepreneurship has made a tremendous difference in making me into a businessman – teaching me business basics and how to pitch our company. The CSUF Startup Incubator has given us access to amazing resources. It’s been great to run our ideas by seasoned entrepreneurs.” Working as an emergency medical technician and sheriff’s department volunteer, computer science major Bryan Ruef was astonished by the outdated, error-prone systems cities relied on during emergencies. He developed an affordable, cloud-based dispatching software product but wasn’t sure how to bring it to market. The entrepreneur-in-residence program at the College of Engineering and Computer Science — a collaboration between CSUF’s Center for Entrepreneurship and ECS — encouraged him to compete in the CSUF Startup Competition for a chance to win customized launch support in the CSUF Startup Incubator. Bryan won the competition and now has a team of advisers helping him grow his company, 10-8 Systems. His software is used in 48 states for disaster response; it saved more than 650 lives in Hurricane Dorian. Bryan credits CSUF’s entrepreneurship resources for putting him on the path to success — making his dream of improving public safety a reality. Be the difference in a Titan's life. Support entrepreneurship in ECS today. Donate Now Receive Updates For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Michael Karg Executive Director of Development mkarg@fullerton.edu 657-278-3348 Watch Video This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU