Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Campus Return Search What to Expect Students and Parents Employees Instructors International Students Visitors Dashboards Planning Covid-19 Prevention Plan Events and Gatherings Planning Framework News & Announcements Campus Return Videos Resources Environmental Health & Safety Student Health Remote Work Teaching@UCR COVID Notify Riverside County COVID-19 Health & Safety Testing Vaccines Screening Check Face Coverings Case Reporting and Investigation COVID Screening Check Breadcrumb COVID Screening Check COVID Screening Check UC Riverside students, employees, and visitors are required to fill out the COVID Screening Check to report: A positive COVID-19 test result COVID-19 symptoms (symptoms from a known or chronic condition such as allergies, asthma, etc. are not considered COVID-19 symptoms for this report) Exposure to someone who tested positive for COVID-19 (exposure is defined as close contact with a known positive person for more than 15 minutes in a 24 hour period) Completion of your required COVID test* *Required weekly testing for those with an approved exemption or deferral, those that are not up to date with their vaccine, or are approved for early return after exposure or infection. Accessing the COVID Screening Check screeningcheck.ucr.edu Confidentiality UCR will keep information about an individual's symptoms confidential, accessible only to those with a need to know in order to address the situation. The information will not be maintained in personnel files. What Happens Next Once the survey is completed, individuals will receive an email with further instructions from the UCR COVID-19 Management Team. Individuals may also receive a call from 844-827-6827 to follow up on the submission. Questions If you have questions contact the COVID-19 Management Center at COVID19@ucr.edu. Who should report a confirmed positive case, exposure, or COVID-19 like symptoms? All UCR faculty, staff, and students are required to report. How to report a confirmed positive case, exposure, or COVID-19 like symptoms? Please report this information by filling out the COVID Screening Check. If I work remotely do I need to fill out the COVID Screening Check? Yes, you need to report a positive case, exposure, or COVID-19 like symptoms. If you were exposed to a person with COVID-19, please arrange for a COVID-19 test on day five or later after the last date of exposure. More information on testing can be found here. Visit the Case Reporting and Investigation page for answers to additional questions. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Feedback Environmental Health and Safety Facility Services Human Resources Keep Researching Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel