Student Affairs Campus Recreation COVID-19 COVID-19 Resources Visit the university's COVID-19 website for more information about campus-wide policies. covid19.illinois.edu COVID-19 COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions Facility Access Live Facility Counts Programs Adventure Recreation Climbing Wall Bouldering Cave Climbing Clinics & Outdoor Trips Equipment Rental Aquatics Learn-to-Swim Lifeguard Lap Swim Scuba Diving Campus Bike Center Rental Information Build-A-Bike Purchase Parts Register Your Bike Bikes for Sale Repair Services Club Sports Officer Resources Directory Handbook Visiting Team Resources Community Programs Group Fitness Fitness Programs Instructor Prep Course Schedule a Class Ice Skating Learn-to-Skate Public Skating Freestyle Hockey Programs Clubs Intramural Activities How To Register Manage Your Team IM FAQ Open Recreation Personal Training Meet the Trainers Personal Training Prep Course Physical Therapy and Athletic Training Student Wellness Food Assistance & Well-Being Program Nutrition & Food Well-Being Resources Reserve Instructional Kitchen Policies Facilities Hours of Operation Campus Recreation Facilities Map Activities and Recreation Center (ARC) Campus Recreation Center East (CRCE) Complex Fields Ice Arena Ice Arena Facility Rental Ice Arena Party Packages Ice Arena Policies Illini Grove Illini Grove Policies Outdoor Center Playfields Parking Facility Rentals Indoor Facility Rentals Outdoor Facility Rentals Ice Arena Facility Rental Party Packages Wedding Reception Package Facility Rental FAQs Facility Rental Guidelines Policies Member Services Providing Support to our Patrons Located at the front entrance of the ARC or CRCE facility for assistance anytime during your visit! Member Services Active Illini Identification Card Requirements Membership Types and Eligibility Student Membership/Usage Faculty/Staff/Retiree Memberships Affiliate Memberships Alumni Memberships Associate/Parkland Memberships Membership Fees Guest Passes University Visitors Daily Guest Use Community and Family Opportunities Locker Rental Court Reservations Policies Employment Work Where You Play Join our team! Employment Part-Time Employment Internships Graduate Internships Professional Employment Alumni Welcome Back Connect with us! Alumni Alumni Updates Keep in Touch Making a Gift Jesse “Tony” Clements Scholarship UI Alumni Association About Us A Place for Everyone Learn more about our mission, vision, and core values. About Us Contact Us Staff Directory Campus Recreation Advisory Committee (CRAC) Diversity and Inclusion Go Green Sustainability Promotional Opportunities Active Illini Home GROUP FITNESS INTRAMURALS ADVENTURE RECREATION ICE SKATING STUDENT WELLNESS PERSONAL TRAINING CAMPUS BIKE CENTER AQUATICS Facility Updates ARC Construction Due to upcoming building renovations, certain spaces at the ARC may be temporarily unavailable or closed for construction. Find more information below. Entrance Level Gym 2: unavailable for open recreation 5/1 – 6/28 Winter Garden: closed for construction starting 5/16 Temporary Entrance: starting 5/16, patrons will be able to enter the ARC through the west doors next to the outdoor pool Click to enlarge Concourse Level Gym 4: closed for construction starting 5/1 Click to enlarge Building Access Per updated university policy, building access via the Illinois app is no longer required to gain entry. Patrons can swipe their i-card/visitor card or continue to scan their Illinois App QR code. Campus Recreation is a place for everyone. Serving Campus Campus Recreation provides a welcoming environment for everyone, with sustainable facilities and inclusive programs that inspire the campus community to engage in recreation and wellness. State of the Art Facilities Over 1,600,000 patrons visit our facilities every year. There is approximately 500,000 square feet of indoor rec space and 75 acres of outdoor areas that offer opportunities for patrons to cultivate healthy lifestyles. Programs for All Campus Recreation offers unique programs designed for patrons of diverse interests, including intramural activities, instructional cooking classes, climbing clinics, swimming lessons, ice skating shows, and more. ACTIVE ILLINI Member Platform Active Illini is allows patrons to manage their memberships, register for programs, purchase passes, and more! Read more about Active Illini on our informational page or access the portal at the button below. Web Portal Apple App Android App EXPLORE WELLNESS RESOURCES CampusWell Explore wellness resources on CampusWell, an interdepartmental website that provides articles and videos about topics ranging from body image, nutrition, and mindfulness, to time management, substance abuse, finances, and more! Visit CampusWell WORK WHERE YOU PLAY Part-Time Employment University of Illinois Campus Recreation is one of the largest on-campus employers with almost 700 student employees, ranging from lifeguards to officials to facility staff to ice skating instructors. Student employees play an invaluable role by providing customer service, safety, and fun to our guests. Campus Recreation will provide you with valuable work skills, life-long learning opportunities, and lasting friendships. Apply “I like working at Campus Recreation because it is exciting and eventful, as well as provides a constant atmosphere for advancement and improvement. As a program assistant for Adventure Recreation, there are always new and different things for me to accomplish to keep the climbing wall running smoothly. I am also challenged to try my best and come up with new ideas to make the department better. I get the opportunity to work surrounded by many of my friends in a place where I am continually spending my time.”Kirsten Habermann GIVING Tony Clements Scholarship University of Illinois Campus Recreation has been leading the way for students to continue their pursuit of healthy activities and to give them a platform to pursue personal goals. Through effective programming, we encourage leadership and a sense of community. There are multiple opportunities for you to make a difference with Campus Recreation. Make a Gift Campus Recreation 201 E. Peabody Dr. Suite 1430, MC-556 Champaign, IL, 61820 2173333806 Email: campusrec@illinois.edu Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTok Student Affairs Quick Links Active Illini Hours of Operation Programs Facilities Become a Member Take the Wellness Pledge Feedback Forms Report Acts of Intolerance Accessibility Campus Rec / Website Donation Requests Email us for accommodations Staff Intranet Go to top