Skip Navigation Camp cowboy COMPLETE YOUR EDUCATION Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks Mission Statement FAQ Fee Waivers Contact Us About Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Camp Cowboy Camp Cowboy Dates Packing List Camp Fee Waiver Registration Directions / Flights Camp Pictures / Videos Directors Meet Your Directors Camp Cowboy Director Application Staff Application Staff Information Application Sponsors Refund Policy CONTACT US Camp Cowboy 250 Student Union 405-744-0383 campcowboy@okstate.edu McKinley Paratore Coordinator 250 Student Union 405-744-5483 mckinley.paratore@okstate.edu What is Camp Cowboy? Meet the Directors Stay tuned for Summer 2022 updates Stay tuned for Summer 2022 updates Stay tuned for Summer 2022 updates What is Camp Cowboy? About Videos Camp Cowboy is an exciting three-day program that gives students a glimpse at life as a Cowboy at Oklahoma State University! Students will engage in team-building activities and small group discussions with counselors and fellow campers, experiences that will help build personal growth, and learn the traditions of OSU. The Camp Cowboy experience will provide an opportunity to meet other incoming students, current OSU students, faculty and staff - all leading to an easier transition into college life, creating a sense of belonging, and building a support network within the Cowboy community. Stillwater Camp: Stillwater Camp is our campus program that includes a new high-ropes course, allows you to get familiar with campus, meet OSU athletes and administrators, participate in a service project and get connected to the community. It is designed to give you the best experience on campus, and allows you to see what Stillwater has to offer. Quest Camp: Quest Camp is our outdoor program that adds to the Camp Cowboy experience! It is a collaborative effort with OSU’s Outdoor Adventures program, and delivers the Camp Cowboy experience to incoming first-year students in the great outdoors. On this trip, students will journey to Arkansas’ Mulberry River and experience an excursion that features water rafting, rock climbing and activities designed to promote personal challenge and learn about OSU. Experience Camp: The Experience Camp is our traditional program that takes you to an off-campus site, giving you an experience that includes a low-ropes challenge course, small groups, campfires, and meeting OSU students. This experience is designed for you to connect and build relationships with other incoming students, learn about OSU traditions, and experience the best of what being an OSU Cowboy means. The dates and information for this year can be found here. Tell Me More! What is Camp Cowboy? Show Me More! Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©