Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Mental wellness champion inspires “gym for the mind” Having experienced anxiety, Asha Bhattacharya understands firsthand the importance of mental wellness.Continue Reading $ The Cal State Fullerton marketing student dreamt of creating a “gym for the mind” on campus — a place where students could train their brains and proactively cultivate mental toughness. Asha’s participation in the President’s Scholars leadership program for high-achieving students encouraged and empowered her to pitch her idea to President Fram Virjee. Impressed by her vision, the president sanctioned a new student wellness room that is scheduled to open in 2022. Now a proud Titan graduate, Asha continues to advocate for mental wellness in her management role at Amazon. Be the difference in a Titan's life. The President’s Scholars program cultivates community leaders.Help develop Titan leadership. Become a Titan. Learn about CSUF's affordable education. Stay Connected $ Subscribe $<!-- -->Facebook $<!-- -->Twitter $<!-- -->Instagram $<!-- -->Linkedin For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Carlos Leija Associate Vice President cleija@fullerton.edu 657-278-4869 Read more stories of Empowerment This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU