Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Campus Return Search What to Expect Students and Parents Employees Instructors International Students Visitors Dashboards Planning Covid-19 Prevention Plan Events and Gatherings Planning Framework News & Announcements Campus Return Videos Resources Environmental Health & Safety Student Health Remote Work Teaching@UCR COVID Notify Riverside County COVID-19 Health & Safety Testing Vaccines Screening Check Face Coverings Case Reporting and Investigation Events and Gatherings Breadcrumb Events and Gatherings The following guidelines were last updated April 1, 2022, and are effective until further notice. In-person events, gatherings, and meetings on the UC Riverside campus are permitted. In-person research and instruction are considered essential activities. Event hosts should consider the business need for gathering before scheduling a large in-person event not directly related to our research and instructional mission. Please also consider options such as moving your event online or outside, limiting capacity to allow for distancing, or restricting events solely for the UCR community. Before proceeding, any event must be approved by the organization head, who is accountable for ensuring that all COVID protocols are enforced. These guidelines are for any event sponsored by a UCR affiliate on or off campus. Principles The events and gatherings guidelines were established in alignment with the following principles that have guided campus decision making on a variety of issues since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. Prioritize the health and safety of all members of our campus community. Extend in-person education and meaningful student engagement to the greatest extent possible. Balance consistent decision-making at the campus level with appropriate flexibility at the organization/department level. Communicate clearly with the campus community. Prepare to adapt to ever-changing conditions. Capacity Limits and Standards Capacity Limits and Standards for: Outdoor Events No capacity limits for outdoor events All attendees are strongly recommended to wear face coverings Guests may not attend if they are feeling unwell or experiencing COVID symptoms Indoor Events No capacity limits for indoor events Face coverings are strongly recommended for all participants who are up to date with COVID-19 vaccinations, including any booster dose when eligible, and will remain required for anyone who is not up to date on vaccinations. Event sponsors should continue to monitor UCR guidance regarding eating/drinking at events and be prepared to adjust food and beverage options, as necessary. Please see the “Food and Beverage” section below for more information. Athletic Events Indoor events: 100% capacity, universal masking (until April 11) Outdoor events: 100% capacity Mega Events It is strongly recommended that event hosts require vaccine verification or proof of negative test for Indoor Mega Events were lifted and moved to a strong recommendation. Mega events guidance is available here. Mega events are indoor events with 1,000 or more people and outdoor events with 10,000 or more people Food and Beverage There are no restrictions on food and beverage service for events. Hosts should consider alternative service styles to reduce health risk, including: Individually packaged food/beverages Boxed meals Steward-served buffets Visitors and Event Guests Guidance for visitors and event guests includes the following: Follow UCR face covering requirements Follow signage posted on buildings and doors Abide by all campus health and safety guidelines, which may include campus specific procedures All visitors/event guests should self-monitor their wellness and stay home if they are feeling unwell or experiencing COVID symptoms Compliance Guidance for Event Hosts Event hosts are required to comply with all University policies and procedures related to events Event hosts should consider safety measures and incorporate these into their event planning: Observe and enforce campus face covering policies Inform attendees to self-monitor their wellness and stay home if they are feeling unwell or experiencing COVID symptoms Any additional costs related to compliance with Public Health requirements is the sole responsibility of the event sponsor Direct visitors and event guests to comply with the following: Follow signage posted on buildings and entry way doors Abide by event coordinator’s attendance guidelines Any off-campus event sponsored by a UCR affiliated organization or department should comply with all current and relevant UCR policies Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Feedback Environmental Health and Safety Facility Services Human Resources Keep Researching Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel