Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titan Athletics The Titans captured the Big West Commissioner’s Cup title for the first time in 2018, capping off a year of outstanding athletic success for the university. Boasting 12 national championships in seven sports, Cal State Fullerton competes as a National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I institution in six men’s and nine women’s sports. Titan Athletics is proud to have developed hundreds of individual All-Americans and launched the careers of numerous professional athletes and Olympians. “Tusks Up” — the rallying cry of Titan pride — reverberates across campus when our student-athletes are in action. Join with Titan Athletics to build on this passion and momentum to strengthen programs, staff and facilities for our talented student-athletes. Together, we can inspire our Titans to even greater heights. Here's how you can be the difference Invest in Premium Baseball and Softball Facilities Position Titan Golf for International Success For more information, contact: Jeffrey Gilstrap Senior Director of Development, Athletics 657-278-4516 | jgilstrap@fullerton.edu This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU