Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Today Join Forces with Us Your contribution makes a difference. Give today to help the university meet its goals for improvement. $ Give Online Now Make a gift online, send a check, give through payroll deduction or contact our team of giving professionals to discuss the impact your gift could have on our university. Whether you choose to support an individual college or a specific program, there are many options for giving to NC State. Online Ready to make an investment in NC State? Click here to make your online gift now! Credit Card You can make a gift today through your Visa, American Express, Discover or MasterCard. Your donation can post immediately or be divided into installment payments. Call 919-515-7827 and a staff member will process your gift. Cash/Check Cash gifts are the easiest to value for tax purposes and for a donor to transfer by check or credit card to NC State University or one of its affiliated foundations. If you would like to make a cash gift, we accept currency, money orders, bank drafts and bank wires. We also welcome your check made payable to the Annual Giving for NCSU and mailed to the following: Gifts and Records Management NC State University Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 Give Through Payroll Deduction NC State faculty and staff can make a monthly contribution to NC State to the area of their choice via payroll deduction. Visit the NC State Employee Payroll Deduction Portal to start a new deduction or manage your existing deduction. Payroll deduction can also be managed via paper form. Gifts of Securities Gifts of securities may allow for tax benefits for the donor by bypassing capital gains taxes and providing an income tax deduction. Gifts of appreciated securities held for more than a year are generally deductible at market value, regardless of the purchase price. When making a gift of securities to NC State, it is important you notify us in advance of making the transfer. This will help us ensure proper crediting and acknowledgment takes place. If you are interested in making a gift of securities, contact Gifts & Records at stockgifts@ncsu.edu or 919-515-7827 for further instructions. Outright Gifts You can also support NC State in many other ways that have an immediate impact. Real estate including personal residences, farms, undeveloped land and commercial properties. Gifts-in-kind of tangible property such as works of art, equipment, or supplies. Honorary or memorial gifts named after individuals including scholarships, faculty chairs and professorships. For more information about outright gifts, please visit the Office of Gift Planning or call 919-515-5106. New E-Receipt Policy In an effort to increase efficiency and implement a digital-first approach, Advancement Services is expanding its e-receipt efforts. Everyone who gives to NC State via the online giving page currently receives an email receipt. Beginning March 1, 2021, gifts made via other tenders beyond the online giving page will also qualify for an email receipt. Donors with an active email address on file will now receive an e-receipt for the following types of gifts/pledge payments: Cash/checks EFT/ACH/wires Gift-in-kind Credit cards Fully implementing e-receipts will allow University Advancement to save resources by reducing costs for stationary and postage. This process will also allow for the expedited delivery of receipts to NC State’s generous donors. To ensure that your e-receipt preferences are recorded, please visit go.ncsu.edu/ereceipt-options and manage your receipt-delivery options. You may also contact the Advancement Services Helpdesk at giftsandrecords@ncsu.edu if you have any additional questions. Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.