Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us A Legend in Stone The Memorial Belltower is one of NC State’s best-known symbols and among its most Hallowed Places. But how much do you really know about its extraordinary story? The Memorial Belltower, its cornerstone dating to 1921, was built to honor the sacrifice of NC State alumni who lost their lives to military service in World War I. The Shrine Room, as the space at the tower’s base is known, contains a plaque listing their names. Now one of our campus’ most Hallowed Places, the tower stands as the best-known symbol of our university, a landmark and gateway to campus. It has become both a place of reflection and a place of celebration, joining together generations of the Wolfpack. Powered by a lead gift from the Henry family to the university’s Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign, an amazing 2019-2021 completion and restoration project added 55 bells, at long last, as well as other improvements. Throughout the project, we’ve been sharing the story of the Belltower’s history, makeover, philanthropic support and more — a story of people, a century in the making. Now, we invite you to take a special tour of the newly reopened and dedicated Memorial Belltower at Henry Square. Thanks to technology as extraordinary as the Belltower itself, the belfry, Shrine Room, plaza and more are available for you to view on a desktop/laptop, tablet or smartphone. Simply click your cursor or tap the screen to move to different points in, on and around the Belltower. Don’t forget to make your way to the top to see the 55 new bells that call the belfry home. You can also click on various points of interest — marked by green (instructions/advice), blue (exterior of the Belltower) and red (interior) circles — for additional info, photos and other special content. Memorial Belltower Virtual Tour See the Legend in Stone like never before. Explore the Memorial Belltower Think & Do Inside the Memorial Belltower With Dr. Tom Stafford We’re going inside (and to the top) of the Memorial Belltower at Henry Square as part of the new NC State Philanthropy Podcast. Learn more Extraordinary Places A Hundred Years and a Thousand Words We've reopened the Memorial Belltower and dedicated Henry Square! Photos, and the video recording of the ceremony and inaugural carillon performance, help tell the story. See for yourself Legend in Stone Timeless, with a Modern Touch We're so excited that the Memorial Belltower is now home to real bells, but the recent construction was not just about the bells. Learn more about the Belltower's latest look, from its new interior stairs to its enhanced lighting and accessibility Lasting Legacy Ring Those Bells: A Carillon Q&A Learn more about playing carillons from the first person to perform on the one in NC State's Memorial Belltower, carillonneur Tom Gurin. It's a little (just a little) like an organ Lasting Legacy A Sacred Event in a Shining New Shrine Room Renovations to the Memorial Belltower made last December’s ROTC gold bar ceremony one of the program’s most memorable. Learn more about these recent grads and see inside the painstakingly restored space Legend in Stone The First Five Learn more about the first five bells cast and their donors through first-person accounts and family memories. Find out what inspired these donors, who include four families and the class of 2010 Ready For Its Closeup Planning, Pride Help Make the Belltower Picture Perfect The Memorial Belltower is the most photographed NC State landmark. Learn about the work and pride that goes into making it look extraordinary. Take a good look at a year-round effort Lasting Legacy Marching Into History For NC State’s Marching Cadet Fraternity, the Memorial Belltower is an abiding reminder of those who serve and have served. Learn more about this extended family Impact A Symbol of the Pack Placing class rings inside the Memorial Belltower overnight marks a connection to the larger NC State community. Explore this timeless tradition The Belltower is made of 1,400 tons of granite set on a 700-ton concrete base. Lasting Legacy Celebrate the Belltower See some of the many stories, photos and memories that we've been gathering about the Memorial Belltower over the years — and share yours, too. Get social and join the #CampaignNCState Extraordinary Places A Brighter Belltower If it seems like the Memorial Belltower looks better than ever these days, your eyes aren’t deceiving you. Learn all about the cleaning process Belltower Celebrations Light It Red When the lights come on at the Memorial Belltower, you know something extraordinary is happening at NC State. Read more about our big Belltower celebrations Memorial Belltower Honoring Those Who Served All gave some, but the men whose names are inscribed in the Memorial Belltower’s Shrine Room gave all. Learn about the NC State alumni who died during World War I Has Your (Belltower) Story Been Tolled? At its heart, the Memorial Belltower is about people. Your special moments continue to bolster the impact of the Belltower, and we want to hear about them. Tell your tale and see what others are sharing Alumni Stories All in Good Chime For decades, the NC State community enjoyed concerts ringing out from the Belltower. Now, a group of alumni share their memories of playing the carillon. Meet the carillonneurs who played the fully electronic instrument Legend in Stone At Long Last, Bells For a century, NC State’s majestic and beloved Memorial Belltower was missing something vitally important. That all changed in summer 2020. Learn how history was made, and installed Making a Difference A Lifetime, a Legacy The Miriam Bailey Gardner Music Scholarship Endowment provides merit-based scholarships to music students and honors a Belltower carillon player with deep NC State roots. Hear her story Memorial Belltower Sharing a Key to NC State’s Past Whether giving tours or opening the Belltower's door for surprise photos, retired vice chancellor Tom Stafford is a keeper of the flame of Wolfpack spirit. Tag along for the tour Think & Do Ringing True Emily Caporali has been making Belltower memories for years. Retired vice chancellor of student affairs Tom Stafford helped her fiancé bring them full circle. Two rings in the Belltower Extraordinary Places Two Moments in NC State Time A new Belltower time capsule will be placed in fall 2021 — in time to observe a century since the laying of its (full) cornerstone. Compare then to now Tower Term: Plinth The plinth is the square slab that the Belltower stands on. It's about 3.5 feet higher than the tower's surrounding plaza (or concourse) level. Make a gift in support of the Belltower’s ongoing maintenance Extraordinary Places Bygone Days at the Belltower These photos of the Memorial Belltower, taken before its recent renovations, show its importance to NC State — then as always. Seeing is believing Alumni Stories Keep the Faith, Finish the Tower Matt Robbins and other passionate alumni pushed for more than a decade to see the vision for NC State’s Memorial Belltower completed. The story behind ‘Finish the Belltower’ Extraordinary Places An Extraordinary Gift for an Extraordinary Place Incredible support from Bill (’81) and Frances Henry has allowed NC State to complete its Memorial Belltower after a century of working and waiting. Be part of the legacy Extraordinary Places A Century in the Making The Memorial Belltower finally got its bells, but its story has involved a lot of contributors over the years. Learn how the team planning and executing the completion and restoration project worked hard to maintain the site's historic integrity and build on the work of those who came (decades) before them. Lasting Legacy War and Remembrance Friendship and sacrifice laid the foundation for NC State’s Memorial Belltower. Learn the story that inspired the icon Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.