Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titans of the Front Line Titan nurses are among the brave and dedicated health care professionals on the front lines in the fight to save lives. Some are graduates of Cal State Fullerton’s School of Nursing, where they gained hands-on experience at the campus’ Nursing Simulation Center and in a variety of clinical settings across Southern California. Others are faculty members, who as practicing nurses share the latest learnings and their everyday realities with students. And Titan nursing students are eagerly volunteering at the Orange County Health Agency’s Operations Center, assisting with health screenings, research and personal protective equipment distribution. For more than 40 years, CSUF’s nationally ranked nursing programs, steeped in cutting-edge research, experiential learning and community outreach, have been preparing future generations of nurses to take on any challenge — from the common cold to emerging viruses — with the strength and compassion of a Titan. Be the difference. Help expand Cal State Fullerton’s interactive health care training for nurses and other health care students today. Donate Now Receive Updates For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Carlos Leija Associate Vice President cleija@fullerton.edu 657-278-4869 This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU