Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titan of the Winds “ “The oboe and support at Cal State Fullerton have allowed me to reach places I never imagined.” Musician Jesús Ramos was applying to graduate schools when Hurricane María struck Puerto Rico, causing massive, widespread devastation. The oboist spent weeks without power, unable to finish his applications, and uncertain about his future. When he could finally reach out, it was too late — application deadlines had passed. Jesús followed up with Rong-Huey Liu, who leads Cal State Fullerton’s oboe studio, and she empathized with the struggling young scholar, wanting to help. She had met Jesús years earlier and knew his talent and promise. Jesús received a scholarship and became part of the campus’ award-winning University Wind Symphony. With Liu’s continued support and mentorship, Jesús mastered the difficult wind instrument and became a proud Titan graduate, now pursuing the music career of his dreams. Be the difference in a Titan's life. Support scholarships and learning opportunities for Titan musicians today. Donate Now Receive Updates For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Lara Farhadi Senior Director of Development lfarhadi@fullerton.edu 657-278-7124 Watch Video This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU