Rec Connect Menu Home Features Misson & Values Inclusivity The FSU Rec App Rec Connect Help Desk Active Anywhere Feature Articles Donate to Campus Rec + Fitness Memberships Personal Training Meet The Trainers Fitness Coaching PT Sessions Fitness Assessments + Small Group Training F45 Training Olympic Lifting PT+ Sessions Start to Fitness + Group Fitness Group Fitness Schedule F45 Schedule Group Fitness Registration + Aquatics Leach Pool & Spa CPR & First Aid Courses Swim Lessons Lifeguard Training Instructor Training 100-Mile Club SCUBA + Leach Center & FMC + Sports Intramural Sports IMLeagues Login IM Team Registration + Get Involved Team Captain Tips Wait List Information IM Free Agents + Sport Details & Rules IM Principles + Sport Clubs Club Information Forming a New Club Resource Center Important Dates Rosters and Waivers + Sport Club Donations + Athletic Training Sports Facilities Hours & Directions Facility Info + + Outdoors Rez Lakefront Park Park Hours Directions to The Rez Activities & Fees Facility Policies Facility Requests & Rentals + Outdoor Pursuits FSU Challenge Course Themes & Rates + Camp Flastacowo + Facilities Current Facility Status Leach Center & FMC Fitness Facility Hours Guests & Family Members Services Racquet Sports Courts Facility Policies + Leach Pool & Spa Fitness Facility Hours Aquatics Programs + Sports Facilities Sport Facility Hours Directions to RSP Facility Policies Facility Requests & Rentals + Rez Lakefront Park Park Hours Directions to the Rez Activities & Fees Facility Policies Facility Requests & Rentals + + Jobs & Staff Job Opportunities Contact Us Meet Our Team SGA Rec Board Alumni News + Outdoor Pursuits Home Outdoor Recreation Outdoor Pursuits We explore the Southeast with single & multi-day trips. Outdoor Pursuits is FSU’s outdoor adventure program. We travel all over the Southeast with single day and weekend to great outdoor adventure destinations. And, we stay local with shorter excursions from campus. Every adventure is unique, and each offers an opportunity to develop new skills, enhance your appreciation of the wilderness, adapt to new and challenging situations, and build lifelong relationships. Single-Day Adventure Trips Ready to explore the outdoors around the region? Sign-up for a low-cost Outdoor Pursuits adventure trip and join us for a group hike, bike, climb, float, and more! No prior experience necessary! Sign up for a trip in the FSU Rec app or through the Rec Connect web portal. There will be no Outdoor Pursuits trips happening over the summer, come back in the fall to see all our exciting new trips! Overnight Trips This semester, Outdoor Pursuits is bringing back overnight Outdoor Pursuits trips with a schedule chock-full of adventures that will give you the best of what the Southeast has to offer. No experience needed! Outdoor Pursuits trip leaders will provide all the gear and knowledge you’ll need, just pack a bag and a sense of adventure! Outdoor Pursuits will also provide transportation to trip locations. Check out the schedule below and register today! Sign up for a trip in the FSU Rec app or through the Rec Connect web portal. There will be no Outdoor Pursuits trips happening over the summer, come back in the fall to see all our exciting new trips! Campus Adventure Trips Looking for an escape from the hustle and bustle from going to classes? Outdoor Pursuits invites you to unwind and spend some time outdoors through our Campus Adventures program! Join us every week for free, fun-filled experiences on or near campus. There will be no Outdoor Pursuits trips happening over the summer, come back in the fall to see all our exciting new trips! Trip Registration Register via RecConnect Outdoors on Instagram See our recent trips Trip Guidelines All participants in adventure trips coordinated and led by the FSU Outdoor Pursuits program are subject to the following policies and procedures. How to Register Current FSU students, faculty, staff, and non-students who have previously taken an OP trip, can register immediately by signing into Rec Connect with their FSU login. Go to Programs, then select the Outdoor Pursuits category to show the list of OP trips. Once you login to Rec Connect (upper right of screen), students will see discounted pricing with each trip. You can sign-up and pay immediately in Rec Connect. Non-students who are first-time OP participants should sign-up for a Rec Connect account to register online. Account creation is a two-step process in which you must confirm the account from an email sent after you sign-up. Once you have an account, you can register online in Rec Connect. Payment is due at registration. Cash, check payable to FSU, or credit/debit card are accepted at the FSU Reservation for in-person registrations. Canceling Your Registration We do not issue refunds. For paid adventure trips, cancellations must be received by 5:00 pm at least 3 days prior to the trip departure (i.e. Wednesday for a Saturday departure). If you need to cancel a trip please contact us at outdoorpursuits@admin.fsu.edu for assistance. For free adventure trips, cancellations must be received by 5:00 pm at least 3 days prior to the trip departure. Late cancellations are assessed a $10 cancellation fee, collected from the participant or assessed to the student’s University account. Adventure trips may be cancelled by the program if minimum registration numbers are not achieved prior to the start date. In this case, a full credit or refund will be issued. If a trip is cancelled by FSU Campus Recreation or due to weather, participants will be contacted regarding reschedule options. Contact the Outdoor Pursuits staff at 850-644-2449 to cancel a registration or for more information. No Drugs, Alcohol, and Firearms Drugs, alcohol, and firearms are prohibited on all Outdoor Pursuits trips and programs. Alcohol, drugs and firearms can make the backcountry into a very dangerous place. You put not only yourself at risk, but also other trip participants and leaders. Participants will be required to sign a Drug and Alcohol Policy Consent Form upon trip registration. Transportation Transportation is provided by FSU Campus Rec for participants. Participants will meet at the FSU Lakefront Park. Pre-Trip Meetings For most trips, we hold a short pre-trip meeting to cover everything that will happen on your adventure trip. It gives us a chance to meet the group and go over expectations. And, it gives you the opportunity to get involved with some of the planning and ask questions. You are required to attend the pre-trip meeting. Meal planning, equipment fitting and other timely information is covered, so don’t miss it. Disclaimers All staff is trained in First Aid and CPR. The cost of any rescue or treatment beyond first aid will be borne by the participant. Outdoor Pursuits is not responsible for lost, stolen, or damaged personal equipment. Custom Trips Let Outdoor Pursuits help plan your next adventure! Trips can range from one full day to overnight weekend camping trips across the southeast. Our team will work with your group to determine the best location and activities to meet your goals. Trips can be tailored to any experience level and are available to FSU students, faculty and staff, and community members. Outdoor Pursuits staff can provide all logistics, transportation, equipment, and instruction. A minimum of two weeks’ notice is necessary for trip coordination. To request a custom trip, contact Sean Bricker via email or call 850-645-2750. Search Quick Links Active Anywhere Virtual Resources University News and Alerts Call Us Leach Center: 850.644.0548 Fitness & Movement Clinic: 850.645.0601 Intramural Sports: 850.644.2430 Sport Clubs & Facilities: 850.644.7902 Rez Lakefront Park: 850.644.6892 Outdoor Pursuits: 850.644.2449 Contact Us Email the Campus Recreation Staff Mailing Address: 210 Leach Center, 118 Varsity Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-4290 © 2021 Florida State University · Privacy Policy · Questions FSU.edu Weather SGA NIRSA