Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us NC State Call Center Student callers reach out to alumni, parents and friends of the university to share exciting news from campus, update contact information and encourage annual support. Work at the Call Center If you are currently enrolled at NC State and would like to help reconnect alumni with the university while rallying their support, apply to work at the call center today. Student callers enjoy: Flexible schedules. A competitive hourly rate, in addition to incentives and tuition assistance. Working in a fun and collaborative environment with fellow Wolfpack students. Being part of a motivated team that makes a significant impact on raising funds for the university. Excellent advancement opportunities for top performers. Contact Information Brittany Smith 2450 Alumni Drive Raleigh, NC 27606 brittany.smith@ruffalonl.com Meet Our Callers Helen L. "Giving matters to me because without private support, I wouldn't have the scholarships I need to be at NC State." Matt H. "So many opportunities are available when private donations come to NC State." Danielle C. "Giving is important because it's how we continue to be the Wolfpack." Sophia M. "Giving matters to me because I enjoy giving back to the university that has already given me so much as an out of state student." Arnold J. "I have received scholarships that came from private support. With this type of continued support, other students can have the same opportunities as me." Lonnie H. "Giving matters so that I can have access to resources that tuition doesn't cover." Ashlynn E. "Giving matters to me because it provides opportunity to those who are in need!" Micah L. "Giving matters because it's our responsibility to ensure others have the same educational opportunities we do." Jessica L. "Giving ensures that students at NC State will have the same, if not more, opportunities than alumni. It ensures growth at the university as well as the continuation of tradition." Ethan C. "Giving allows us to continuously better our university." Aleii H. “Giving is essential to me because by investing in NC State, we are investing in the community, North Carolina, and our country’s future.” Amber G. “I was able to benefit from the donations that are given to students by alumni, so I feel that it is my duty to make sure that someone else has that same opportunity.” Khadija P. “Giving ensures that deserving students can have a bright future at NC State without the burden of sustaining themselves financially.” Sydney T. “To help continue to give back to other students in need here at the university!” Elle N. “Giving back allows each student to receive a phenomenal education." Morgan P. “Giving back gives more students the opportunity to think and do the extraordinary.” Delaney S. “Giving helps us continue to compete with other universities and grow our programs.” Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.