Jump to main content Facebook Twitter Instagram User menu News & Announcements Register & Purchase About Us Search form Search Main menu Home Facilities & Operations Facility Hours Locations Dillon Gym Poe/Pardee Fields West Windsor Fields Jadwin Gym DeNunzio Pool Baker Rink Facility Use Policies Member Services Membership Pricing Access and Information Membership FAQ Dillon Gym User FAQ Fitness & Wellness Group Fitness Yoga Yoga Lecture Series Group Fitness Class Descriptions Instructors and Staff Instructional Programs Stephens Fitness Center Orientations Wellness Programs Fitness Events Princeton to 50k Point Challenge Res College Step Challenge Personal Training Ask the Experts Informal Recreation Anytime Fitness and Wellness Resources Exercise is Medicine - On Campus Health and Wellness Learning Center Sport Clubs Club Descriptions Dates and Deadlines Important Information Forms Emergency Action Plans Quick Reference Guides Sport Club Handbook Home and Away Competitions Intramurals & Events Intramural Sports Leagues Intramurals Registration Intramural FAQs Rules Special Events 5K Runs Tiger Trot for Hunger: 5k Run/Walk Unified Sports Summer Day Camp General Info Registration & Pricing Counselor In Training Program Camp Counselors Employment Code of Conduct 2022 Weekly Schedules Camp FAQs Aquatics Swim Lessons Youth Swim Lessons Adult Swim Lessons Private Swim Lessons Certification Classes Aquatics Staff Recreational Swimming About Us Office of Campus Recreation Employment Opportunities Committee on Campus Recreation Internship Opportunities Main menu: sub-menu items Group Fitness Instructional Programs Stephens Fitness Center Orientations Wellness Programs Fitness Events Personal Training Informal Recreation Anytime Fitness and Wellness Resources Exercise is Medicine - On Campus Health and Wellness Learning Center Stephens Fitness Center and Cardio Annex History The Stephens Fitness Center -- named in honor of the generous gift of Paul and Elle Stephens and their son, Bart '97 -- opened on January 31, 2000. It was the end result of a four-month renovation of the Beale E. Poste Health Fitness Center. (Mr. Poste graduated from the University in 1929.) An interesting note is that during the renovation, the current Group Fitness Room was outfitted as a temporary fitness center for the Fall 1999 semester. Highlights The Stephens Fitness Center is 8,000 square feet in size and has air conditioning, handicap accessibility and a sound system (satellite radio). It consists of two levels: an upper and lower. The 5,000-square-foot upper level has wall-to-wall carpeting and houses an extensive inventory of selectorized machines and aerobic (or "cardio") equipment. The upper level also has a reception desk, lounge (with 72 "cubbies") and seven flat-screen LCD televisions. The 3,000-square-foot lower level has wall-to-wall high-density flooring and boasts an abundance of free-weight equipment. Cardio Annex History The Cardio Annex opened with two rooms on August 29, 2008. A third room was added and opened on August 24, 2015. And a fourth room was added and opened on September 14, 2020. The space was made possible by renovating areas that had been used originally for equipment storage. Highlights The 1,600-square-foot facility consists of four rooms with air conditioning, ceiling fans, high-density flooring, sound system (satellite radio) and seven flat-screen LCD televisions. View a full list of equipment that's located within the Stephens Fitness Center and Cardio Annex. Hours For a detailed schedule of the Stephens Fitness Center and Cardio Annex, visit our Rec Facility Hours page. Policies For policies on the use of the Stephens Fitness Center and Cardio Annex, visit our Facility Use Policy page. Secondary menu Subscribe to Campus Rec ListServ Event Requests Equipment Requests 103 Dillon Gym, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544 PH: 609.258.1647 · FX: 609.258.2490 rec@princeton.edu @PUCampusRec Subscribe © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University