Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Titan of Expression “ “As a child of formerly undocumented parents, I felt a weight and responsibility to honor the shirt and share the story of where I found it. Cal State Fullerton pushed me to not be afraid to do the projects that I want to do — there I found my voice and myself.” As a master’s student in art at Cal State Fullerton, Teresita de la Torre found her inspiration and herself. With the encouragement of Assistant Professor of Art Rebecca Campbell, Teresita turned a sun-damaged shirt, found discarded near the U.S.-Mexico border, into the catalyst for a life-changing project. Every day for an entire year, she wore the shirt, exploring the possibilities of who might have worn it in the past and under what conditions. As the shirt physically deteriorated, her passion for giving voice to the immigrant experience grew in the body of work she created around the experience. She hopes that future CSUF art students will have a chance to find their inspiration as she did — as the campus transforms spaces with the support of generous donors. Be the difference in a Titan's life. Support the visual arts center today. Donate Now Receive Updates For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Lara Farhadi Senior Director of Development lfarhadi@fullerton.edu 657-278-7124 This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU