Some page features may require javascript to run. Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF About the Campaign Why Give Titans Of... Ways to Give There are many ways to give By Investment Priority Academic Innovation Campus Transformation Community Enrichment Student Empowerment Full List of Campaign Investment Opportunities By College and Unit Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Titan Athletics Fullerton Arboretum Student Affairs — or — Donate to Titan Fund Search for a Fund Planned Giving Contact Us Titans of Empowerment Titans of Resilience Titan of Justice Titans of the Cosmos Titans of the Frontline Titan of Hope Titan of the Tides Titans of Trade Titans of Twitch Titan of the Winds Titans of Zoom Student veteran equips fellow vets for success As early as elementary school, James-Anthony Burandt was labeled as a likely high school dropout with no future. Growing up in a chaotic environment, he enlisted in the Marine Corps to routinely get three meals a day and a place to sleep.Continue Reading $ After serving honorably for four years, James-Anthony enrolled at Cal State Fullerton and discovered the campus’ Veterans Resource Center. Its supportive staff provided stability and believed in his potential — encouraging the political science major to become a peer adviser at the center, where he learned to uplift and empower fellow student veterans to navigate military benefits and career options. Championed by the center director, James-Anthony was selected for the semester-long Cal State D.C. Scholar program. Now he is advocating for student veterans on an even larger scale — on Capitol Hill. Be the difference in a Titan's life. The Veterans Resource Center supports the personal, academic and professional success of military-connected students. Help empower student veterans to reach their fullest potential.Donate Now Become a Titan. Learn about CSUF's affordable education. Stay Connected $ Subscribe $<!-- -->Facebook $<!-- -->Twitter $<!-- -->Instagram $<!-- -->Linkedin For more information about this investment opportunity and how your contribution will be used, contact: Katie McGill Executive Director of Development kmcgill@fullerton.edu 657-278-8231 Read more stories of Empowerment This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement To report problems or to comment about this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu | Privacy Policy © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) Title IX Contacts and Addresses Site Index Campus Map CSU