Skip to main content Global navigation About Events Donate Contact Locations Our System myDH Menu Log into myDH Main navigation Home Patients & Families COVID-19 FAQ Learn About Your Diagnosis Appointments Find a Specialist Clinical Trials Support and Well-Being Your Visit to Dartmouth Cancer Center Why Choose Dartmouth Cancer Center Health Care Professionals Cancer Referral Find a Specialist Cancer Care Programs Clinical Trials Education Scientists & Researchers Find a Researcher Research Programs Research Centers Shared Resources Funding Education The Byrne Family Cancer Research Institute Dartmouth Center for Global Oncology Community Outreach and Engagement News & Stories Our Patients. Their Stories. Patient Care Research and Innovation Education News Media Contacts About Events Donate Contact Locations Our System myDH Find a specialist Find a location COVID-19 updates Cancers Breast Colon Lung Prostate Skin All Featured Story Our Health System Has a New Name Dartmouth Cancer Center is a part of Dartmouth Health. We’re proud to be a part of a health system that’s filled with people who stand among the nation’s best. Read article . Experience the Dartmouth Cancer Center difference Stellar patient experience Our patients consistently rank us in the top 99th percent of regional cancer centers and the top 98th percent nationally. Outstanding physicians Our physicians specialize in treating different forms of cancer, but what they have in common is their commitment to providing the best care in the Northeast. Coordinated care At Dartmouth Cancer Center, we don't treat a disease, we treat a person—a whole person. Our care team makes it easy to coordinate care, beyond just cancer treatment. Making History 50 Years After Making History Image 2022 commemorates the 50th anniversary of Dartmouth Cancer Center opening its doors to patients in New Hampshire, made possible by funds secured through New Hampshire's then U.S. Sen. Norris Cotton's support of the National Cancer Act of 1971. Dartmouth Cancer Center has become a leader in cancer care and research, as one of the nation's 51 NCI-designated Comprehensive Cancer Centers—one of three in New England and the only one north of Boston. Fifty years after making history, Dartmouth Cancer Center stamps another milestone in its great timeline with the dawning of The Byrne Family Cancer Research Institute at Dartmouth Cancer Center. The Byrne Institute will serve to strengthen Dartmouth Cancer Center's tightly knit collaborative research structure, weaving together bright minds from diverse specialties across Dartmouth and Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center and Clinics. The result? Delivering life-saving contributions to global cancer research and improving lives right here in the Upper Valley, across the nation, and around the world. Phone Listing Main Locations Bennington, VT 802-447-1836 Keene, NH 603-354-5466 Manchester, NH 603-629-1828 St. Johnsbury, VT 802-473-4100 Lebanon, NH 603-650-4344 View all locations Other useful phone numbers Cancer care programs DHMC and Clinics Footer navigation Patients & Families COVID-19 FAQ Learn About Your Diagnosis Appointments Find a Specialist Clinical Trials Support and Well-Being Your Visit to Dartmouth Cancer Center Why Choose Dartmouth Cancer Center Health Care Professionals Cancer Referral Find a Specialist Cancer Care Programs Clinical Trials Education Scientists & Researchers Find a Researcher Research Programs Research Centers Shared Resources Funding Education The Byrne Family Cancer Research Institute Dartmouth Center for Global Oncology Community Outreach and Engagement News & Stories Our Patients. Their Stories. Patient Care Research and Innovation Education News Media Contacts Donate Make a Gift Become a Cancer Center Volunteer Friends of the Cancer Center About National Recognition Interdisciplinary Care Cancer Center Leadership Mission & Vision History Careers About This Site About Dartmouth Health Notice of Nondiscrimination Notice of Privacy Practices Website Feedback Copyright © 2022 Dartmouth Cancer Center. All rights reserved. Social Media Dartmouth Cancer Center on Facebook Dartmouth Cancer Center on YouTube Dartmouth Cancer Center on Twitter