Skip to site alert. Skip to content Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center (HICCC) - New York Refer a Patient Giving Locations Contact Make an Appointment Search About Us About Us Message from the Director Mission, Vision, and Guiding Principles About the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center The Irving Family Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion (DEI) Leadership Our Members Giving News Our 50th Anniversary Upcoming Programs and Events Contact Us HICCC Annual Report Explore the past year of cancer research and care at the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Read the Report For Patients For Patients Find a Doctor Make an Appointment Locations What to Expect Get a Second Opinion Patient Stories Refer a Patient Keeping You Safe Video Visits Make an Appointment Our dedicated access representatives can help you make an appointment today. Make an Appointment Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types Cancer Care Clinical Trials Cancer Types Amyloidosis Anal Cancer Bladder Cancer Brain and Spinal Tumors Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Childhood and Adolescent Cancers Colon and Rectal Cancer Esophageal Cancer Gestational Trophoblastic Disease Head and Neck/Oral Cancers Kidney Cancer/Adrenal Cancer Leukemia Liver Cancer Lung Cancer Lymphoma Melanoma Multiple Myeloma Myelodysplastic Syndrome Ovarian Cancer Pancreatic Cancer Prostate Cancer Rare Blood Disorders Sarcoma Stomach Cancer Testicular Cancer Thyroid Cancer Uterine Cancer Vaginal Cancer Vulvar Cancer Screening and Outreach Screening and Outreach Screening and Risk Reduction Community Outreach and Engagement Screening and Risk Reduction How to Reduce the Risk of Cancer Reducing Second Cancer Risk Screening for Cancer Genetic Testing and Cancer Educational Resources Community Outreach and Engagement We work with our communities and patients to remove access barriers to cancer prevention, screening, treatment and survivorship services. Learn About Our Efforts Research Research Programs Laboratories Membership Shared Resources For Researchers Programs Cancer Genomics and Epigenomics Cancer Population Science Precision Oncology and Systems Biology Tumor Biology and Microenvironment Research Laboratories Learn about the research being pursued by members of the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Explore Our Research Education Education Continuing Medical Education (CME) Educational Seminar Series Trainee Associate Member Program Cancer Research Training and Education Coordination Core (CRTEC) Educational Opportunities Division of Hematology/Oncology Department of Radiation Oncology Training at HICCC We're dedicated to developing the next generation of researchers and physicians through cross-disciplinary training and fellowship programs You are here Home > Cancer Types and Care > Cancer Types > Melanoma Melanoma About Melanoma Treatments Meet Our Team Melanoma Make an Appointment Our team of dedicated access representatives is here to help you make an appointment with the specialists that you need. 212-305-5098 Request an Appointment Online Telehealth Services A diagnosis of melanoma can be overwhelming, and you probably have a lot of questions. Where should you go for care? What treatment should you get? The first step is to find a cancer center with the expertise and experience to give you the best possible outcomes. Your team of melanoma specialists at Columbia Cancer are leaders in the diagnosis, care, and treatment of all stages and types of melanoma, including rare melanoma subtypes such as ocular melanoma, acral melanoma, and mucosal melanoma. We understand that no two melanoma diagnoses are the same. We care for you as a whole person, not just a cancer patient. We will work with you to design a treatment tailored to your specific health needs and the unique biology and genetics of your cancer. You will receive state-of-the-art treatments that are backed by—and often developed by—the world-renowned physicians and researchers at Columbia University. Your care team at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital will provide the compassionate and supportive care you need to navigate through every step of your cancer journey, from diagnosis to treatment to survivorship. Our Expertise at Your Service Our dermatologists, surgeons, ophthalmologists, and oncologists see hundreds of patients with skin melanoma, ocular melanoma, acral melanoma, and mucosal melanoma patients each year, giving them unmatched experience and expertise. We use the power of cutting-edge technology and discoveries made in our labs to provide you with personalized, comprehensive care. Your cancer doctors lead clinical research trials that bring new ideas and new treatments into our clinics. We’re recognized by U.S. News & World Report as the top hospital in New York and the #4 hospital in the nation. We are backed by the power of the National Cancer Institute, which designated Columbia University as a Comprehensive Cancer Center, its highest designation. You Will Receive State-of-the-Art Care At Columbia, our team are leaders in melanoma cancer care and treatment, offering the newest personalized treatments, including tissue-sparing surgery, mole mapping technology, novel immunotherapeutic strategies, and the newest advances in precision cancer therapy. Digital Mole Mapping The earlier melanoma is found, the better the outcomes will be. Columbia’s Pigmented Lesions Clinic (PLC) focuses on skin cancer surveillance and early detection. We offer complete digital body mapping if you have a higher risk of developing melanoma. This technology uses high-resolution photography that creates a map showing the details of your skin, including moles or other pigmented lesions. We combine the digital mole map with a thorough exam of your skin, using additional imaging technology that allows our dermatologists to see the structures under the skin to determine what might be suspicious or require surveillance or follow up. We use sophisticated software that helps us assess the lesions objectively and provides a higher accuracy of diagnosis. Patients receive their mole maps so that they can do their own monthly self-checks. Cosmetically Sensitive Surgery Surgery is often the best option for melanoma that has not spread to other areas. Our surgeons are experts in tissue-sparing techniques, removing less tissue while still giving you the same survival benefits. This means you will have a smaller scar, better healing times, and overall a much better cosmetic result. Immunotherapy and Targeted Therapies Immunotherapy harnesses the power of your own immune system to fight cancer. Melanoma served as a model for the successful application of immunotherapy, and Columbia Cancer was one of the first centers to offer these therapies in clinical trials. Columbia Cancer is also leading the way in targeted therapies, treatments that are based on specific genetic changes in the tumor. Our oncologists are experts in the use of these targeted therapies, and we have ongoing clinical trials dedicated to finding new targets for drugs. Learn More About Melanoma Treatment Learn More About Melanoma Treatment You’ll Have Your Own Team of Melanoma Experts Melanoma diagnosis and treatment requires a team of experts, including dermatologists, specialized dermatologic surgeons (Mohs surgeons), dermatologic oncologists, radiation oncologists, ocular oncologists, plastic surgeons, specialized nurses, nutritionists, genetic counselors, social workers, and many more. Your care team at Columbia works together and with you to find the best care plan for you. We coordinate your care across the board, from diagnosis to treatment to survivorship, so you have less to worry about. Find a Melanoma Expert Find a Melanoma Expert Related News Skin in the Game By Melanie A. Farmer May 25, 2021 As a skin cancer specialist, Dr. Larisa Geskin has devoted her career to treating patients and promoting awareness about cancer prevention and the importance of daily sunscreen usage. Topic Melanoma You’ll Have Access to Leading Clinical Trials At Columbia Cancer, the discoveries made here in our labs lead to new ways to treat cancer. You may have the opportunity to participate in a clinical trial, which can give you access to new therapies before they are widely available. At Columbia Cancer, we offer a wide range of melanoma clinical trials, often available only at our center. View Melanoma Clinical Trials View Melanoma Clinical Trials You’ll Have a Wealth of Support Resources We know that cancer care includes more than medical treatments. We offer a wide range of services to support you and your caregivers and loved ones throughout your journey. From nutritionists to pain specialists to integrative health experts, our supportive care specialists are here for you. Patient Support Services Support Resources Support Resources Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us For Patients Cancer Types and Care Screening and Outreach Research Education Contact Us Make an Appointment Columbia University Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center 1130 St. Nicholas Avenue 2nd Floor, Room 201 New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Back to top