Schools Undergraduate Emory College Oxford College Business School School of Nursing Community Emory Continuing Education Professional Education Pre-College Program Graduate Business School Graduate School School of Law School of Medicine School of Nursing School of Public Health School of Theology Libraries Libraries Robert W. Woodruff Business Chemistry Health Sciences Law MARBL Music & Media Oxford College Theology Library Tools Course Reserves Databases Digital Scholarship (ECDS) DiscoverE eJournals EmoryFindingAids eJournals ILLiad OpenEmory Research Guides Resources Resources Administrative Offices Emory Healthcare Academic Calendars Bookstore Campus Maps Shuttles and Parking Athletics: Emory Eagles Arts at Emory Michael C. Carlos Museum Emory News Center Emory Report Resources Emergency Contacts Information Technology (IT) Outlook Web Access Office 365 Canvas OPUS PeopleSoft Financials: Compass Careers Human Resources Emory Alumni Association Search This SiteEmory SitesPeople http://www.emory.edu/ ../../index.html About About Candler Welcome from Dean Love The Candler Centennial At a Glance Mission Candler Black Excellence Candler History Visit Candler Staff & Office Directory Work at Candler Board of Advisors Educational Effectiveness Room and Event Scheduling Admissions Admissions Candler Experience Candler Degrees Fast Facts Affording Seminary Apply Now Deadlines Connect Meet the Team On-Demand Campus Tour Academics Academics Degree Programs Course Information Academic Calendar Contextual Education International Study & Travel U.S. Study & Travel Registrar Honors Day Awards Commencement Non-Degree Academics Pitts Theology Library Academic Development & Support Educational Effectiveness Accreditation Faculty Faculty Alphabetical Directory Directory by Area Publications Scholarship & Distinctions Faculty Emeriti Faculty Voices McDonald Chair A Tribute to Retiring Faculty Student Life Student Life Meet the Office of Student Life Staff Covid-19 Resources for Students Community Life Candler Worship Spiritual Life Formation Communities Academic Development & Support Health & Safety Life at Candler News Hub Housing, Transportation & Schools Contact Us Programs Programs & Resources Denominational Programs Special Interest Area Programs United Methodist Course of Study Licensing School Lifelong Learning Institutes & Initiatives Worship Planning Resources Professional Development Affiliated Organizations Academic Services and Support Alumni Alumni Give Now Resources & Services Stay Connected Get Involved Candler Clubs Continuing Education Volunteer Leadership Contact Us News & Events News & Events News Releases Events at Candler Blog In the News Magazine Search by Topic Social Media Faculty Alphabetical Directory Directory by Area Publications Scholarship & Distinctions Faculty Voices Faculty Emeriti McDonald Chair Home » Candler Faculty » Marla F. Frederick Marla F. Frederick Asa Griggs Candler Professor of Religion and Culture Email: marla.frederick@emory.edu Phone: 404.727.6322 PhD, Duke University BA, Spelman College Dr. Marla F. Frederick joined the faculty in the fall of 2019. A leading ethnographer, she employs an interdisciplinary approach to examine the overlapping spheres of religion, race, gender, media, politics, and economics. Her teaching interests encompass the anthropology of religion and the African American religious experience, and her ongoing research interests include the study of religion and media, religion and economics, and the sustainability of Black institutions in a 'post-racial' world. She is the author of four books and several articles. Most recently, she co-authored Televised Redemption: Black Religious Media and Racial Empowerment (NYU Press, 2016), which examines how Black Christians, Muslims, and Hebrew Israelites use media for the “redemption” of the race. A frequent lecturer, she has been an active convener, panelist, respondent or discussant at nearly 70 academic events across her career and is a respected research collaborator. Her work has been supported by the National Science Foundation, the Milton Fund, the Louisville Institute, and the Ford Foundation, among others. She currently serves as the president of the 8,000-member American Academy of Religion, the world’s largest association of scholars in religious studies and related fields. Publications Awards Media Selected Publications Books Co-author,Televised Redemption: Black Religious Media and Racial Empowerment. NYU Press, 2016 Colored Television: American Religion Gone Global. Stanford University Press, 2016 Co-author,Local Democracy Under Siege: Activism, Public Interests and Private Politics. NYU Press, 2007 Between Sundays: Black Women’s Everyday Struggles of Faith. The University of California Press, 2003 Chapters and Articles “Mediated Missions: The Gospel According to Women” in Missiology: An International Review. Vol. 43(2) 121-136, 2015. “Johnnetta B. Cole." Oxford Bibliographies. October, 2014. “For the Love of Money?: Distributing the Go$pel beyond the United States.” Callaloo January 2013. 36(3):609-617. (Journal Special Issue on “LOVE”) “Reading Race and American Televangelism” in The Cambridge History of Religions in America: Volume III: 1945 to the Present. Edited by Stephen J. Stein. Cambridge University Press, 2012 “Neo-Pentecostalism and Globalization” in The Cambridge Companion to Religious Studies. Edited by Robert A. Orsi Cambridge University Press, 2012 “North Carolina: A Southerner Mines the Meaning of Progress” Religion and Politics, September 4, 2012 “The Revolution May Not be Televised” Future of Religion: Traditions in Transition. Kathleen Mulhern, ed. Patheos Press, 2012 “Rags to Riches: Religion, Media, and the Performance of Wealth in a Neoliberal Age” in Ethnographies of Neoliberalism. edited by Carol Greenhouse. UPenn Press, 2009 "Becoming Conservative. Becoming White?": Black Evangelicals and the Para-Church Movement.” with Traci Griffin in This Side of Heaven: Race,Ethnicity, and Christian Faith edited by Robert J. Priest and Alvaro L. Nieves. Oxford University Press, 2007 “’But It’s Bible’: African American Women and Televangelism" in Women and Religion in the African Diaspora. edited by R. Marie Griffith and Barbara Savage. John Hopkins University Press, 2006 “The Marketization of Education: Public Schools for Private Ends” with Lesley Bartlett, Thad Guldbrandsen, and Enrique Murrillo. Anthropology and Education Quarterly 33 (1): 1-25, 2002 Selected Awards Martin Luther King, Jr. Board of Preachers, Sponsors, and Collegium of Scholars, Morehouse College, 2021 Elected President of the American Academy of Religion, 2021 Weatherhead Center Grant – Co-Lead on “Religion and Public Life in Africa and the Diaspora” 3-year grant for collaborative research and writing cluster “Harvard College Professor” - Distinguished Teaching Award, 2016 Cabot Fellow – Harvard University Book Award for [ital]Colored Television: American Religion Gone Global[/ital], 2016 Weatherhead Center Research Travel Grant, Harvard University, 2010 Radcliffe Institute Fellow, Harvard University, 2008-2009 Center for the Study of World Religions Grant Recipient, Harvard University 2008-2009 Research Fellow, Louisville Institute, 2005-2006 Milton Fund Grant Recipient, 2005-2006 Womanist Scholar, Interdenominational Theological Center, 2002-2003 Post Doctoral Fellow, Center for the Study of Religion, Princeton University, 2000-2001 Duke Endowment Fellow, Duke University, 1994-1999 John Hope Franklin Distinguished Teaching Fellow, Duke University, 1999 Women’s Studies Race and Gender Research Award, Duke University, 1998 North Carolina Public Sphere’s Research Fellow, UNC Chapel Hill, 1997-1998 WUOT, "Interview: Dr. Marla Frederick, A Preview of the Distinguished Lecture in Religious Studies," (February 9, 2022) American Academy of Religion, "2021 AAR Presidential Address: Religion, Inequality, and the Will 'To Stop'" (November 20, 2021) NPR, "This Sunday, Visit 'PreachersNSneakers' For Fashion, Flexing And For-Profit Faith" (April 24, 2021) Religion News Service, "Warnock, pastor and politician, has role models who did both" (January 5, 2021) Religion News Service, "Rev. Raphael Warnock considers vote sacred as pastor and Senate candidate" (November 13, 2020) The Atlanta Journal-Constitution,"Despite pandemic, faith leaders increase efforts to mobilize voters" (October 18, 2020) Fall 2020 Convocation, August 27, 2020 New Faculty Feature: Marla F .Frederick, August 27, 2020 Faculty News Candler School of Theology Rita Anne Rollins Building 1531 Dickey Drive Atlanta, Georgia 30322 USA 404.727.6322 Copyright 2013 Emory University All Rights Reserved Emory Home Contact Emory Emergency Employment About Emory's Web Candler Home Directions Apply Donate Building Hours Library Accreditation Candler Intranet Student Directory REAL CANDLER Emory Home Contact Emory Emergency Employment About Emory's Web Candler Home Directions Apply Donate Building Hours Library Accreditation Candler Intranet Candler School of Theology Rita Anne Rollins Building 1531 Dickey Drive Atlanta, Georgia 30322 USA 404.727.6326 Copyright 2013 Emory University All Rights Reserved