Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Sponsors 'Cane Talkers Contact About 'Cane Talkers Contact Search About Sponsors 'Cane Talkers Contact Home AAA Lee Kaplan When Elite Athletes Receive the Best Care, Everyone Wins Kysha Harriell Ask the Right Questions: What Athletic Trainers Can Teach Us About Healthcare Demetrius Jackson Four Lessons I Learned as a Miami Hurricane JoNell Efantis Potter Leaving the Life: A National Model of Healthcare for Survivors of Human Trafficking Billie Grace Lynn Sculpture in Conversation: Monuments and Racism in America Play Button Play Button Play Button Play Button Play Button Lee Kaplan When Elite Athletes Receive the Best Care, Everyone Wins Kysha Harriell Ask the Right Questions: What Athletic Trainers Can Teach Us About Healthcare Demetrius Jackson Four Lessons I Learned as a Miami Hurricane JoNell Efantis Potter Leaving the Life: A National Model of Healthcare for Survivors of Human Trafficking Billie Grace Lynn Sculpture in Conversation: Monuments and Racism in America Welcome The University of Miami introduces ’Cane Talks—lively ten-minute presentations by leading thinkers in the UM community illuminating big questions we face in the next century. Browse 'Cane Talks When Elite Athletes Receive the Best Care, Everyone Wins When the Miami Marlins and Miami Hurricanes play, Dr. Lee Kaplan, founder and Director of the University of Miami Sports Medicine Institute, is often on the sidelines. As an orthopedic surgeon, he has helped top athletes in tennis, baseball and football recover and compete. Learn how UM's Sports Medicine Institute convenes researchers and health care providers from across the university to advance the future of medicine and adapt lessons from the best players to help young athletes -- and all of us -- maintain an active lifestyle. Watch the 'Cane Talk Ask the Right Questions: What Athletic Trainers Can Teach Us About Healthcare Health care providers have the power to change lives. But what if your doctor isn’t asking you the right questions? Or what if they simply don’t understand the answers that you give? A patient’s race, religion and culture can influence the treatment they receive and the decisions they make. Dr. Kysha Harriell, Associate Clinical Professor and Program Director of Athletic Training at UM explains how athletic trainers are leading the way to patient-centered care. Watch the 'Cane Talk Four Lessons I Learned as a Miami Hurricane Listen to alumnus Demetrius Jackson’s journey from a childhood in Miami’s vibrant Overtown neighborhood to the classrooms and athletic fields of the University of Miami as he pursues a dream of playing in the NFL. Hear him reflect on major lessons he learned as a defensive end for the Miami Hurricanes and as a student of political science, and how those lessons are inspiring his next steps as an agent for change. Watch the 'Cane Talk Leaving the Life: A National Model of Healthcare for Survivors of Human Trafficking Law enforcement estimates that human trafficking enslaves 40 to 50 million people worldwide. And when they are able to escape that life, survivors need help to recover. Dr. JoNell Potter is the founder of one of the nation’s only health clinics for survivors of human trafficking and has developed a comprehensive model of care based on their unique needs. Hear stories of strength and resilience from the front lines of this epidemic and learn what each of us can do to end human slavery. Watch the 'Cane Talk Sculpture in Conversation: Monuments and Racism in America Associate Professor of Sculpture Billie Grace Lynn creates thought-provoking sculpture that addresses some of contemporary culture's most pressing issues head-on. In this ‘Cane Talk join Lynn at the Lowe Art Museum and in her studio to explore her most recent exhibition, A House Divided. The installation features a 26-foot hoodie, an 18-foot obelisk, and video of interviews with people of color that began with the question, “Do you feel safe?” Watch the 'Cane Talk What We Risk When We Don’t Matter In all cultures, time zones, languages and religious beliefs, all people share a common desire to matter. Yet across the globe a range of forces are making it harder for people to matter -- challenging our ability to live and work at our peak and to achieve true health and wellness. Join community psychologist Isaac Prilleltensky for a deeper look at what it means to matter and what we need to do to help one another matter more. Watch the 'Cane Talk The Music Mothers Make: The Importance of Singing to Infants Throughout history and across cultures, mothers have sung to their infants, suggesting that this music has an essential purpose. What are the important characteristics of mothers’ singing? How do babies respond to and benefit from this musical interaction? Music therapy professor Shannon de l’Etoile’s research examines the important role of singing in our earliest days. Watch the 'Cane Talk Professor Lifeguard: How Wellness Can Save Lives in Florida and Beyond As a lifeguard, Wes Smith spent twenty years focused on rescuing strangers. After losing his parents to disease, Dr. Smith turned his tenacity to saving lives through prevention. Learn how one initiative at the University of Miami is shifting the conversation from treatment to health through a powerful combination of education, research, student engagement and the tools to scale intervention. Watch the 'Cane Talk Youthquake: A New Politics for a New Generation Researchers rank Florida as one of the least civically engaged states in the nation. Studies have painted the millennial generation as less likely to vote or contact elected officials. But as the oldest members of a new generation turn 21 this year, the ground is shifting. Watch the 'Cane Talk You Can't Do That: The Political Consequences of Fights About State and National Power In the U.S. our system of federalism allows the national government and states to have different policies on issues like minimum wage, educational testing, and government spending, among many other things. Join legal scholar Charlton Copeland to examine whether the American way of doing federalism allows people from all points of view the same leverage in policy debates that cross local and national jurisdictions. Watch the 'Cane Talk How Our Biology Influences Our Politics A great deal of research has been conducted on voter behavior and the demographic characteristics of people who vote. Now, new research has begun to focus on how our biology also influences political behavior. Are there aspects of our biology that determine who we are more likely to support at the ballot box? Do those influence help us make better decisions? Watch the 'Cane Talk Authentic Truth Equals Authentic Leadership UM Women’s Head Basketball Coach Katie Meier shares her bold ideas on helping young people develop the confidence that is the foundation of leadership. Coach Katie explores how failure and challenge contribute to success at a top athletic powerhouse. Listen in as one of the nation’s best coaches shares what she believes young people, parents, teachers and coaches need to do to build strong authentic leaders. Watch the 'Cane Talk Leadership Doesn’t Happen By Accident UM Head Men’s Basketball Coach Jim Larranaga is known for his attention to detail and his fidelity to strong systems that drive success. In this Cane Talk he unpacks his philosophy for developing a team with discipline and habit. His commitment to a clear teaching methodology helps empower his team to make a winning vision come to life. Join Coach L as he reviews game tape and reveals some of the routines he uses to develop leadership through careful preparation and execution. Watch the 'Cane Talk An intimate talk with Mark Richt about leadership So much is written about coaches developing athletes, but head coaches also have a unique responsibility to develop leadership among the coaches who collectively shape a team, its strengths and its culture. Coach Richt joined us for an intimate conversation about his philosophy and strategies for shaping a team of coaches who work together to nurture the next generation of athletes. Watch the 'Cane Talk The Classroom Isn’t Big Enough: Orange Umbrella Student Consultancy At the University of Miami School of Communication, students are not waiting for summer or graduation to gain real-world experience. Through Orange Umbrella, a full service, student-run communication consultancy, students work in a real business with real clients. Their clientele span from within the university, to national campaigns in television and retail. Students across multiple disciplines get their creative juices flowing from outside the traditional classroom. Watch the 'Cane Talk When Mortality Became My Bedfellow: What her own cancer taught a doctor about fighting for health equity Dr. Erin Kobetz, Associate Director for Population Science and Cancer Disparity at the Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, is a champion for collaborative work that supports underserved communities as they seek greater access to health. Her journey as a scientist was transformed by her own cancer diagnosis, which inspired innovative approaches to prevent cancer in South Florida communities from Little Haiti to local fire stations. Watch the 'Cane Talk Curing Cancer from Within: The Prospect and Promise of Immunotherapy Thanks to advances in immunology and an ever-improving understanding of genomics and proteomics – the role genes and proteins play in disease and its progression – scientists and clinicians are able to identify unique markers present on blood cancers and modify healthy cells from our own immune system to find and destroy them. Hear from Dr. Komanduri about where the science is headed. Watch the 'Cane Talk Building Miami’s Brain Trust: The Race to Eradicate Malignant Brain Tumors Nearly 100,000 people will be diagnosed with a brain tumor this year in the United States, and they will come from every age group and income bracket. The future is being rewritten for these patients by Ricardo J. Komotar, MD, the director of the University of Miami Brain Tumor Initiative, an internationally-recognized center translating research into new, minimally invasive strategies to treat and prevent brain tumors. Watch the 'Cane Talk Building Resilient Neighborhoods in South Florida and Beyond Many of South Florida’s most historic and architecturally significant buildings are vulnerable to flooding and sea level rise. Residents and business owners worry about how best to protect their homes and buildings. City planners want to know how to preserve vibrant neighborhoods in coastal communities, and elected officials seek sustainable approaches to guide future growth. Watch the 'Cane Talk I Can’t Hear You! Stopping the Hidden Hearing Loss Epidemic Noise is a leading cause of hearing loss, yet most of us have no idea that our exposure everyday sounds -- at sporting events and concerts or from our earbuds – can be damaging our ears. Scientists at the UM College of Engineering and at Miller School of Medicine are uncovering clues about hidden hearing loss and are racing to produce solutions that can be implemented across the globe. Watch the 'Cane Talk Simulated Settings, Real-World Impact: How Simulation is Saving Lives and Charting a New Course for Healthcare In the chaos of emergency rooms, environmental disasters and crises across the globe, healthcare providers make split-second decisions with lives in the balance. How do you prepare for that? Visit this new, cutting-edge Simulation Hospital and hear from Dr. Susana Barroso-Fernandez, Assistant Professor of Clinical and Director, Simulation Hospital Special Projects, about how simulation is saving lives and preparing us for a safer tomorrow. Watch the 'Cane Talk The Secret Life of Sharks: the Global Race to Protect One of the Ocean’s Most Important Creatures Sharks are among the most mysterious and feared animals on the planet. Yet many shark species face their own deadly predator: humans. Learn about the cutting-edge work of University of Miami Rosenstiel School research professor and shark scientist Neil Hammershlag and the team at UM’s Shark Research and Conservation Program to save the world’s sharks. Watch the 'Cane Talk Cuba: La Caridad and Religion’s Resiliency Religious scholar Michelle Gonzalez Maldonado presents “Masking the Virgin Mary: La Caridad del Cobre and Religion’s Resiliency in Cuba,” revealing how the patron saint of Cuba, “La Caridad del Cobre,” has become a symbol of Cuba’s identity and exploring the complexity and resilience of the patron saint’s religious traditions. Watch the 'Cane Talk Cuba: Theatre and Reconciliation Lillian Manzor, director of the University’s Cuban Digital Theater Archive, presents “Theater and Reconciliation: The Power of the Digital Diaspora,” discussing the roles that theater and digital culture can play in building community in a moment and across the fraught borders of time, space, and nations. Watch the 'Cane Talk Cuba: La Música en Mi Combining performance and personal reflection, award-winning composer and UM faculty member Gonzalo Rubalcaba presents “La Música en Mi/The Music in Me,” exploring his roots in Cuba and how his music has evolved to reflect a global complexity from the island and beyond (in Spanish). Watch the 'Cane Talk May I Borrow Your Glasses? How do decision-makers in today's organizations balance the need for profits and progress while avoiding putting others at risk? Business professor Anita Cava, director of UM's Business Ethics Program, addresses how leaders can see more clearly when faced with tough decisions. Watch the 'Cane Talk Opinion, Information, and Democracy A healthy democracy relies on citizens making choices based on accurate information. This is especially challenging in our age of ubiquitous social media and fake news. Political science professor Joseph Uscinski discusses what the recent presidential campaign reveals about how Americans make political choices. Watch the 'Cane Talk Sea Level Rise in Days and Decades Climate modeler Ben Kirtman employs one of the world’s largest supercomputers to more accurately predict the risk of severe flooding, which has been exacerbated by sea level rise. Professor Kirtman, an advisor to the United Nations, describes what his research means for cities across the globe. Watch the 'Cane Talk Terrorism 15 years After 9/11 Physicist Neil Johnson presents "Terrorism 15 years After 9/11: What the Rise of the Internet Can Tell Us About the Rise of ISIS." The internet has changed the way terrorists communicate and plan—and also how terrorist plots can be monitored and stopped. How can big data be harnessed to combat terrorism? Watch the ’Cane Talk Revolutionizing Music Education Dean Shelly Berg presents "Revolutionizing Music Education: The Frost School at the Forefront." Lectures might be a great way to teach people about things, but they aren’t a great way to teach people to do things. At the Frost School of Music the faculty has reinvented how musicians are prepared. Watch this 'Cane Talk Exploring the Invisible Environmental anthropologist Kenny Broad presents "Exploring the Invisible: Climate, Caves, and Culture." Beneath our feet lies one of the most inhospitable environments on earth: underwater caves. Pushing the limits of the extreme, exploring this inner space can help answer fundamental questions. Watch the 'Cane Talk The Distant Present From “America’s Winter Playground” to “the Gateway of the Americas,” playwright Tarell McCraney presents "The Distant Present: A Look at Miami’s Future as a Global Artistic Gateway" and explores Miami’s distinctive mixture of worlds. Watch the 'Cane Talk Choosing Not to Choose UM is a global institution that reaches across the borders of geography, identity, and discipline. Mateus Lima, a member of the Class of 2017 from Brazil shares his journey to South Florida in "Choosing Not to Choose: In Praise of Life at the Intersections in Culture, Science, and Policy." Watch the 'Cane Talk Training the Brain to Be More Attentive Attention is necessary for everything we do—from learning, to making decisions, to regulating our mood. Yet our capacity to pay attention is limited when we are under stress. Amishi Jha, associate professor in the Department of Psychology, presents "Training the Brain to Be More Attentive: How Elite Athletes, Military Personnel, and Others Perform Better Under Stress." Watch the 'Cane Talk Responsive Architecture Tables that tweet. Coffee cups that curate messages. Facades that fuel displays. This talk by Architecture Dean Rodolphe el-Khoury invites the audience to imagine how our built environment will be transformed by information technology. Watch the 'Cane Talk Conquering HIV/AIDS Join one of the nation’s most prolific researchers on HIV/AIDS to learn more about the journey medical professionals have taken to treat this disease. For more than 20 years Margaret Fischl has been part of the team that built the University of Miami AIDS Clinical Research Unit. Watch the 'Cane Talk How I Became Comfortable as That Lady American public schools are a critical part of how we hope to prepare citizens for our democracy. Yet while they hold the promise for an egalitarian future, law professor Osamudia James argues in her presentation "How I Became Comfortable as That Lady: Racial Identity, Silence, and Equality in American Public Schools" that they also simultaneously entrench deep racial inequality. Watch the 'Cane Talk Unlocking Information From crime statistics to public school test scores, citizens have the ability to access mountains of data on issues that impact their lives locally and globally. Alberto Cairo is the Knight Chair in Visual Journalism at the School of Communication and presents "Unlocking Information: The Power of Data Visualization for Journalists, Scientists, and the Rest of Us." Watch the 'Cane Talk The Power of Yes and Why Entrepreneur, author, fashion designer, and academic Neri Karra, a member of the University of Miami Class of 1999, recounts her personal journey from a Bulgarian vineyard to a Turkish refugee camp to the University of Miami campus. Watch the 'Cane Talk U MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of University Communications and Marketing 6200 San Amaro Drive Suite 400 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-5100 305-284-5100 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices