Skip to main content Guest Sign In Sign inLocation and Persona My Persona: Guest Tap to switch personaSettings Settings My Menu Add items to my menuNavigation section UC Home Athletics Bearcat Bound (BBO) Bearcats Tracker Dining Directory Health & Safety Info Library News One Stop Shuttle Social Transfer UC Covid Check FAQs UC Map Videos Welcome to the University of Cincinnati COVID-19 Updates Bearcat Orientation Transfer Students Athletics Alumni Bearcats Tracker Campus Resources   Map Shuttle Parking Directory Clock-in Libraries Dining Rec Center Equity & Inclusion Bookstore Health & Safety Access Issue UC's Biology Meets Engineering explores animal-inspired robotics UC leads stream restoration pilot project Experience Changes Everything | The College Tour Cheer Cincinnati | The College Tour Cincinnati the Campus | The College Tour PreviousNext Choose UC University of Cincinnati @uofcincy 1 day ago Today we honor and remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice 🇺🇸.#MemorialDay https://t.co/CxcGcgooml University of Cincinnati @uofcincy 4 days ago Sunny days ahead 😎 .⁣⁣⁣ What are you wearing this weekend? ⁣⁣⁣⁣⁣ ⁣⁣⁣⁣ Shop #BearcatsVerified gear: https://t.co/6oqy9dAvQF https://t.co/CsmBhAT4eW University of Cincinnati @uofcincy May 23, 2022 We don’t wait to change the world. We’re powering new markets and industries, transforming ideas into impact, improving the way we live, work and learn.Next Lives Here.#PrettyPicMonday https://t.co/qCBpARpYJT University of Cincinnati @uofcincy May 21, 2022 The old adage says that an apple a day keeps the doctor away, but new research from the University of Cincinnati shows the potential benefit of a different fruit for your health. https://t.co/NtFVeDGAxX Lindner College of Business @LindnerCollege May 19, 2022 His future was set. John Hollis, BBA ’22, would be a freight broker after graduating with his #marketing degree. But that plan went in the 🚮.Read more about Hollis & how he founded HaHa Dumpsters. @uofcincyEship @uofcincyalumni @uofcincy #entrepreneurhttps://t.co/26vFCK6hR3 PreviousNext Follow UC In mergers and acquisitions, strategy and culture come first The mergers and acquisitions (M&A) environment experienced meaningful changes following the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Initially slowed by pandemic-driven uncertainty, deal-making had a watershed year in 2021, reaching a record-high deal value level of nearly $6 trillion globally. Buyers, looking to deploy growing levels of capital, found sellers who became more willing as valuations increased. For many, the decision to buy or sell became a simple one that could be easily answered with valuation metrics and financial analysis. Empowering managers with data automation and integration The data revolution is here. Find out what that means for high-volume fund managers. To remain competitive and to meet the evolving needs of investors, the focus of the investment manager has shifted significantly to include effective data management in areas beyond their primary responsibility of portfolio selection. The three key areas of wellbeing I remember the first time a client shared with me that they received the news of a cancer diagnosis. I was about to dive into our typical review meeting agenda when I was blindsided by this bombshell. Reviewing the “numbers” was in my comfort zone, so when the cancer news was disclosed, it certainly rattled me. Suddenly, all the analysis, planning, and portfolio information didn’t mean a thing at that moment. We talked about their treatment plan, their optimism in fighting back, and how their loved ones have already been stepping up to support them. Eventually, we reviewed their financial situation, and how the diagnosis has affected our planning. As we concluded the meeting, the client shared with me how they felt a little more at peace. College of Medicine to participate in national effort to assess and improve teaching clinical reasoning College of Medicine joins national effort to improve teaching clinical reasoning skills Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. PreviousNext UC News I'm very, very proud to have come from this school. Without UC, Allbirds doesn't happen. - Tim Brown, DAAP, '05 CEO, Allbirds Tours   Main Campus Medical Campus Regional Campuses Change App Experience Click to change your app persona Top of page Powered by Modo