Skip to main content Yale University Need Help? Home Log into Canvas NetID Guest Help logging in Canvas Terms of Use FAQ Copyright Statement The University expects all users of this site to respect copyright and to determine if their posted content complies with copyright law and the Terms of Use for Canvas. By posting content on this site, you affirm the content was lawfully acquired and: you are the copyright holder; or You have obtained express permission from the copyright holder or determined such content is in the public domain under copyright law; or You have completed a fair use evaluation and determined in good faith after reasonable inquiry that the use of the copyrighted work is a “fair use” under copyright law. Please review the Tips & Good Practices for Use of Canvas. . x Log in to Canvas @ Yale What kind of account do you have? NetID Guest Search the Canvas @ Yale Help Guides News Gradescope Workshop Invitation February 8, 2022 Take advantage of Gradescope’s online workshop series... read more New Quizzes is Now Enabled in Canvas August 18, 2021 New Quizzes is now available in academic courses and sandbox sites. The New Quizzes tool is an upgraded and improved quizzing tool which will eventually replace the current quiz feature in Canvas (“Classic Quizzes”). As of August 2021, brand new quizzes can be created in either New Quizzes or Classic Quizzes and any existing quiz that was previously created in Classic Quizzes can be ... read more Course Spotlight Gradescope: How I use it and why I love it Regardless of your subject matter and class size, there might be benefits to you. - Natalia Córdova Sánchez, Lecturer in Psychology Find out how lecturer Natalia Cordóva Sánchez cuts down on grading time significantly by using Gradescope. Read more Course Spotlights The University expects all Canvas activity to comply with U.S. Copyright law. Read more. Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy · Contact Canvas @ Yale support Copyright © 2018 Yale University · All rights reserved Yale University Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy