Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Canvas Help myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Resources for Instructors Resources for Students Contact Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Canvas Help Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home About Canvas Learning Management System Canvas is a product of Instructure, which was founded in 2008 and currently has more than 1,000 employees. Instructure reports having more than 6,000 customer organizations with more than 35 million users. Canvas has captured 28% of the higher ed market, equal to that of Blackboard (established 1997) and slightly ahead of Moodle (established 2002). Canvas is used by many of KU’s peer institutions and has been adopted by 60% of Big 12 institutions and 11 of 14 Big 10 institutions. Benefits for KU The Canvas LMS presents many benefits to the University of Kansas. The system is a modern web platform using the most up-to-date HTML and CSS technologies. It also follows W3C’s Web Accessibility Initiative and Section 8 guidelines to help ensure accessibility for all users and according to Instructure, it has been tested to work with many screen-reader solutions. We expect Canvas will provide a better experience for all KU instructors and students, as it has been designed with a modern user interface that makes tasks simpler, especially for student users. The student experience also will be improved by a more integrated and supported mobile experience for both Android and iOS. Blackboard’s mobile capabilities did not provide full functionality and an optimal experience. Because many developers code and solve issues for Canvas before other learning management systems, we expect Canvas will have better support for integrations and publisher tools. Canvas was the winner of EdTech Digest’s 2020 EdTech Award in the learning management category and the 2019 EdTech Breakthrough award for Overall LMS Solution Provider of the Year. AWARDS Budig Hall 1455 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 itedtech@ku.edu 785-864-2600 facebook instagram twitter youtube KU Educational Technology The Center for Online & Distance Learning Classroom Technologies Media Production Studio Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.