Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Canvas Help myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Resources for Instructors Resources for Students Contact Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Canvas Help Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Canvas Resources for Instructors Get started using Canvas by exploring the links below. Canvas Help KU Canvas Resources Review the complete list of KU Canvas resources for instructors. Canvas FAQs Read frequently asked questions related to using Canvas Growing with Canvas Course Take our self-paced introduction to Canvas for instructors. Request a Practice or Non-Academic Course Request a “sandbox” or practice course, or a shell for a non-academic program in Canvas. Canvas Guides Review the Canvas guides for instructors. Integrated Tools List of supported tools and platforms in Canvas. List Canvas Training Portal Access on-demand and live trainings provided by Canvas. KU Canvas Workshops Review the KU workshops calendar for upcoming Canvas sessions. Past KU Canvas Training Recordings Review recordings of past KU Canvas and related tool training sessions. Blackboard to Canvas Guide Review our guide for importing content from Blackboard into Canvas. KU Canvas Template Learn about the ready-made template available to help you get started building a course in Canvas. Canvas Users Group in Microsoft Teams The Canvas Users Group in Microsoft Teams is a place where instructors and other users can post questions, suggestions and useful links, as well as receive updates about Canvas at KU. Budig Hall 1455 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 itedtech@ku.edu 785-864-2600 facebook instagram twitter youtube KU Educational Technology The Center for Online & Distance Learning Classroom Technologies Media Production Studio Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.