Kansas State University K-State Search Search web, people, directories Browse A–Z Sign in K-State Canvas KSIS Navigate HRIS Webmail OrgCentral CRM Status of ITS resources K-State Home Information Technology Services Sign in Information Technology Services eIDs and passwords eID FAQ Password FAQ IT Help Desk Kansas State University Hale Library 2nd Floor 1117 Mid Campus Dr N Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-7722 800-865-6143 helpdesk@k-state.edu Cookies Notice Fragment Browser cookies disabled Your browser does not accept cookies. Single Sign On WILL NOT WORK. Sign in with your K-State eID eID Password CAPSLOCK key is turned on! Reset your eID password. Need a K-State eID? Students, employees, and visitors of K-State are all eligible to register. Register now! Need help registering? Login Sidebar Fragment loginProviders Fragment Students: By clicking sign in, you agree to conduct business electronically with Kansas State University and understand you are responsible for charges incurred. See Financial Responsibility Agreement for more information. Access to this system and all other electronic resources at K-State is restricted to employees, students, or individuals authorized by the University or its affiliates. Use of this system constitutes agreement to abide by all relevant K-State policies. Unauthorized or inappropriate use may result in limitation or revocation of use privileges and/or administrative, civil, or criminal penalties. https://www.k-state.edu/policies/ppm/3400/3431.html Faculty & Staff: By using this system, you agree that you will comply with federal law (FERPA 1974) regarding the privacy of student information. Your responsibilities are defined in K-State's Student Records Policy. Failure to comply with FERPA will result in your removal from access and could result in further administrative and legal actions as allowed by law. Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas Degree Stats Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Facebook Twitter YouTube Foursquare Google+