Canvas @ Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Home About Submenu FAQs Canvas Implementation LMS Evaluation Project Project Team Training Sessions Teaching with Canvas Submenu Canvas Field Guide Best Practices Guides Spotlights Canvas & Integrated Teaching Tools Digital Toolkit Announcements Contact Log in Search Search Canvas @ Princeton Log into Canvas Princeton NetID Other For help with login issues, contact the Support and Operations Center at 609-258-4357 or via Live Chat. Upcoming Training Sessions Canvas Assessments & Understanding the Gradebook Mon, Jun 6, 2022, 11:00 am Instructors will learn how to efficiently set up and grade assignments. We will leave time for Q&A at the end. The session includes: Assistant in Instruction (AI) Faculty Instructional Staff Overview of Canvas for Department & Course Admins Mon, Jun 13, 2022, 2:00 pm This training is customized for department or course administrators to learn how to use Canvas in support of faculty. We will leave time for Q&A at the end. The session includes: Staff Intro to Canvas for Faculty & Instructional Staff Wed, Jun 22, 2022, 2:00 pm Instructors will learn the core functionalities of a Canvas course site. We will leave time for Q&A at the end. The session includes: Assistant in Instruction (AI) Faculty Instructional Staff View All Trainings Announcements New Integration: iClicker Cloud Aug. 27, 2021 iClicker Cloud is a free in-class student response system that provides instant feedback to instructors. It can be used to promote active learning through low-stakes knowledge checks and polls. iClickers can also be used for taking in-person attendance based on geolocation. iClicker Cloud is synced with Canvas’ roster and… Princeton Virtual Desktops Aug. 20, 2021 Starting August 30, Princeton Virtual Desktops (PVD) will be the University's new solution for accessing Student Labs and other academic software. The service gives all faculty, researchers, students and staff access to a suite of software anytime, anywhere and on any device. The new Princeton Virtual Desktops (PVD) service provides… View All Announcements Canvas Information Support: The McGraw Center supports teaching teams in multiple ways. Our instructional designers will offer individualized assistance and consultations; we are hosting several training sessions for faculty, teaching assistants, and administrative staff; and we will also respond to questions at canvas@princeton.edu. Resources: We have created a set of guides to teaching with Canvas, which supplements our Field Guide to Canvas. The McGraw Center has also developed valuable resources for returning to the classroom. Blackboard: Blackboard is no longer available for teaching, although faculty, staff, and students will continue to have archival access to the last seven years of courses on Blackboard. Read more: Blackboard Archive Mode. Faculty Spotlights Working Together With Canvas We really like the Modules (and) the ease of student submissions online. The Importance of User-friendly Design Canvas (has a) more user-friendly and more intuitive interface than Blackboard Studying Images The Mirador image viewer allows instructors to 'post multiple angles of one object and students can manipulate the images (zooming in and out). Students can also study images side-by-side [and] learn objects in detail.' Speeding Things Up Once you get to know your way around Canvas, the day-to-day management of a class is, at least in my experience, much smoother and quicker (than in Blackboard). Managing and Grading Student Work Canvas provides “a one-stop platform to manage submission of written assignments, peer reviews, and grading, instead of the endless chain of emails with attached Word files.” Footer A unit of the Office of the Dean of the College Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University