Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Child Advocacy Program Harvard Law School About History Mission and Overview CAP News Faculty and Staff About Our Photographs Contact Harvard Law School Child Advocacy Program Academics Overview 2022-2023 Courses Art of Social Change Cross Registration CAP Writing Program Student Opportunities Clinic Child Advocacy Clinic – About Child Advocacy Clinic Placements Resources for Students and Site Supervisors Clinic FAQs (PDF) Spotlight on Child Advocacy Clinic Students What Students Say About the Child Advocacy Clinic Events & Conferences Events CAP “Preserving Public Education” Speaker Series Conferences Law Reform Search this website CAP 2022-2023 Course Information Now Available! Find out more. Preserving Public Education Speaker Series: Protecting LGBTQ+ Students: Fighting Florida’s “Don’t Say Gay” Bill Wednesday, April 20, 12:30, WCC 3018 Learn More & RSVP Spring 2022 Writing Program Student Presentation Series: Re-Thinking Diversion For Indigenous Youth in Western Australia with Chloe DSouza, LLM Candidate Wed., April 6 @12:30 WCC Room 3015 Learn more & RSVP Preserving Public Education Speaker Series: Anti-Racist Movement Lawyering with Saa'un P. Bell and John Affeldt Monday, April 4, 12:30, WCC 3019 Learn More & RSVP Preserving Public Education Speaker Series: Parental-Rights Extremism And Its Anti-Democratic Foundation with Carmen Longoria-Greene Wednesday, March 30, at 12:30 PM (EST) in WCC 3016. Learn More and RSVP The Rage of Innocence: How America Criminalizes Black Youth A Book Talk with Professor and Author Kristin Henning Monday, Feb. 21 12:30-1:30 WCC 3019 Learn more & RSVP here. Mission The Child Advocacy Program (CAP) at Harvard Law School is committed to advancing children’s interests through facilitating productive interaction between academia and the world of policy and practice, and through training generations of students to contribute in their future careers to law reform and social change. We are committed to a broad vision of advocacy, working both in and outside of the courtroom, as well as across disciplinary lines. Student Voices "The Child Advocacy Clinic enabled me to get a multi-dimensional perspective on the field of child advocacy, one that is crucial for me as I continue to work for and on behalf of children. The experience gave me valuable insight into the domestic system affecting children, allowing me to make better informed choices as I work in an international setting. Law school would not have been the same without CAP!” Ha Ryong JUNG (Michael), JD ’18 More Student Voices Student Voices "The Child Advocacy Clinic gave me a tremendous opportunity to expand my substantive knowledge of juvenile justice issues, from assisting with briefs in individual cases to advocating for sentencing reform in the state legislature. The clinic helped shape my own views of what type of public interest lawyering I wanted to engage in and I still carry those insights into my current work on behalf of low-income and marginalized youth." Alice Abrokwa, JD ‘12 More Student Voices Student Voices "The Child Advocacy Program was the reason I chose to attend HLS, and it’s the reason that I get to do the work that I do every day. CAP provided the support, encouragement, and skill-building I needed to become an effective advocate for kids in the juvenile justice system. I’m so grateful to everyone who has made CAP into the program that it is today." Jason Szanyi, JD ‘09 More Student Voices Students Information and resources for students interested in CAP Law Reform Information on policy work and advocacy efforts Events Latest events from the Child Advocacy Program Recent News and Events “Harvard Law Today” Profiles CAP Writing Program Participant Dionne Koller Fine The University of Baltimore professor of law and director of its Center on Sports and the Law graduates this month with a Master of Laws (LLM). Protecting LGBTQ+ Students: Fighting Florida’s “Don’t Say Gay” Bill Join us Wednesday, April 20, at 12:30, for the fourth event in the Child Advocacy Program’s “Preserving Public Education” speaker series. Anti-Racist Movement Lawyering: A Lunch Talk with Saa’un P. Bell and John Affeldt Join us Monday, April 4, at 12:30, for the third event in the Child Advocacy Program’s “Preserving Public Education” speaker series. View all news and event postings » Footer Contact Us Child Advocacy Program Harvard Law School 23 Everett Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-496-1684 [email protected] Accessibility Resources Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy » © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College