Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources Resources for Distance Education & Satellite Campuses Mental Health issues do not discriminate based on gender, income, or ethnicity. All of us are subject to the pressures and stress of modern living and sometimes those stressors can lead to depression, anxiety, or suicidal thoughts. If you have issues that you believe would be helped by speaking to a counselor, please do not hesitate to contact one of the resources below. My SSP @ TAMU The My SSP app offers 24/7 access to immediate professional counseling via phone call or chat, in addition to an option to schedule multiple sessions with a consistent counselor for short-term treatment. App users also gain access to free virtual fitness sessions through the LIFT app, in addition to an extensive content library of mental health and wellbeing resources, including articles, videos, podcasts and infographics. Deer Oaks Student Assistance Program Information For students taking Texas A&M University courses in our distance education degree programs or at one of our off site locations, Texas A&M offers a variety of services, including counseling, through the Deer Oaks Student Assistance Program. TOLL-FREE: (866) 329-4148 WEBSITE: www.deeroakseap.com USERNAME: tamusap PASSWORD: tamusap HelpLine at Texas A&M University HelpLine is the after-hours mental health service for Texas A&M University. It provides telephone, peer support, information, crisis intervention, and referrals to students, as well as those concerned about students. HelpLine is available from 4 p.m. to 8 a.m. weekdays and 24 hours a day on weekends when school is in session. Self-Help for Your Mental Health Explore some resources to help you cope and care for yourself. In addition to getting professional help when needed, self-help can be a part of the healing process for long-term gains in mental healing. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT