Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources General Resources Asians Do Therapy 55 Mental Health Resources for People of Color 44 Mental Health Resources for Black People Trying to Survive in This Country Toolkits Racial Trauma is Real Many mental health professionals and scholars have called for the recognition of racial trauma as a mental health concern. This tool is a set of recommendations that serve as a much-needed resource for people of color when reacting to racial trauma. Loving Kindness for Oppressive Experiences This tool is a meditation and asks you to recall a moment in time when you felt devalued by someone, not because of what you did/didn’t do, but because of some aspect of who you are. With that experience in mind, this meditation will ask you to recognize your bodily reaction to the experience: tensing up, change in breathing, etc. The meditation guides you through processing that oppressive experience. Surviving & Resisting Hate This is a one page resource for surviving hate. There are 10 things listed that people of color can do to resist hate they may be facing in their daily life. The Four Bodies This holistic toolkit considers the mental, emotional, physical, and spiritual bodies of people of color as they navigate the racism that operates in their lives on a daily basis. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT