Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources Accessibility Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Statement The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is a federal anti-discrimination statute that provides comprehensive civil rights protection for persons with disabilities. Among other things, this legislation requires that all students with disabilities be guaranteed a learning environment that provides for reasonable accommodation of their disabilities. Texas A&M University has a strong institutional commitment to the principle of diversity in all areas. In that spirit, admission to Texas A&M University and any of its sponsored programs are open to all qualified individuals without regard to subgroup, class or stereotype. If you believe that you have a disability requiring an accommodation, please contact Disability Resources by calling 979-845-1637. Parking for Students with Disabilities Disabled Spaces: The closest university-permitted disabled parking to SSB will be in Lot 19. This lot is a disabled parking lot only. Vehicles must have disabled credentials AND a valid TAMU permit. Paid Lot Options (visitors): The closest parking for visitors is located in University Center Garage and Cain Garage. Visit TAMU Transportation Services for more information. Wheelchair Access The main entrances to the Student Services Building (SSB) are wheelchair accessible. All offices and public areas of the buildings are wheelchair accessible, and accessible rest rooms are available. Vision Impaired Access All signs follow ADA guidelines, and door signs are in both contrasting raised letters and in Braille. Door signs are either on the wall five feet from the floor on the door knob side, or in the center of the closed door if there is no sign on the wall. Speech and Hearing Impaired Access The HelpLine phone number (979.845.2700) is equipped with both voice and teletype assistive devices (V/TTY). The V/TTY designation indicates that the HelpLine can be called with either an ordinary telephone or a teletype device (TTY), so it is accessible to people with speech and hearing difficulties. Additional Accommodations We have made an effort to make our facilities easily accessible. If you plan to visit us and need additional accommodations beyond those described above, please contact us at caps@tamu.edu or 979.845.4427. CAPS will make every effort to accommodate your needs. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT