Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources The Let’s Talk program is an outreach initiative that meets and engages students in conversation in an environment that feels safe and empowering to them. By providing this preventive care, the Let’s Talk program intends to positively contribute to the mental health and wellness of our diverse students as well as to their retention and graduation rates. The Let's Talk program has concluded for the academic year and will resume in the fall. Let's Talk @ LGBTQ+ Pride Center The CAPS Let’s Talk program at the LGBTQ+ Pride Center provides LGBTQ+ students with a space to discuss issues of sexuality, gender identity, intersecting identities (e.g., race/ethnicity, citizenship status, religion, etc.), and other stressors (e.g., family, finances, relationships, etc.), as these concerns can impact student mental health and academic achievement. The Let’s Talk program was created to address the negative impact that homophobia, biphobia, transphobia, hate crimes, and microaggressions have on LGBTQ+ students. Let's Talk @ DMS The CAPS Let’s Talk program at the Department of Multicultural Services (DMS) provides students of color with a space to discuss issues of race, intersecting identities (e.g., sexual orientation, gender identity, citizenship status, religion, etc.), and other stressors (e.g., family, finances, relationships, etc.), as these concerns can impact student mental health and academic achievement. The Let’s Talk program was created to address the negative impact that racism, hate crimes, and microaggressions have on students of color, particularly at a PWI (predominately white institution). Let's Talk @ ISS The CAPS Let’s Talk program at International Student Services (ISS) provides international students with a space to discuss concerns related to transitioning to a new environment and culture, academics, and other stressors, such as family, relationships, religious concerns, finances, and immigration issues, as these concerns can impact student mental health and academic achievement. The Let’s Talk program was created to address the negative impact that xenophobia, racism, hate crimes, and microaggressions have on international students. *This program is for international students currently located in the United States. If a student visits the Let’s Talk Program and they require additional support, such as counseling or crisis services, or if they would benefit from additional CAPS services, the student will be referred to CAPS for further assessment, support, and linkage to the appropriate services. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT