Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources See the CAPS message about Xenophobia & Racism Around Coronavirus Diversity & Inclusion Howdy! Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) values and celebrates the diversity of our students. We also recognize that systems of privilege, power, and oppression can negatively impact students’ lives, their adjustment to college, their mental health and overall wellness, and thereby their academic success. CAPS hopes to provide a space where students can share and process their experiences as multicultural beings with various intersecting identities. We strive to support and empower our students as they embark and continue on their journeys at Texas A&M University. Read our Diversity Statement. Let’s Talk is an outreach initiative that meets and engages students in conversation in an environment that feels safe and empowering to them. Visit Us at Our Let's Talk Program The following pages provide information and resources for several marginalized student populations that we hope are helpful to them in navigating their educational journey at Texas A&M. We will be adding more information and addressing the concerns of additional student populations as we continue to grow our website. LGBTQ+ Students International Students Students of Color Undocumented/DACAmented Students Microaggressions Students with Disabilities Social Justice in College Counseling Conference CAPS strives to continue growing in its understanding of issues of diversity and social justice and their implications on mental health and the students we serve. Our Social Justice in College Counseling Conference was created to provide mental health providers with a collegial learning environment where they can further their knowledge and understanding of marginalized student populations and their unique mental health needs as well as gain skills that can result in the provision of more culturally competent care and further the field of college mental health. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT