Skip to main content Penn Home A-Z Directory Emergency Policies Webmail Search query Search Menu Menu Search Health & Wellness Student Health Service Wellness Partners Counseling and Psychological Services Alcohol and Other Drug Initiatives Student Disabilities Services Campus Health Student Intervention Services Penn Violence Prevention CAPS Home Stress, Distress, & Crisis Stress, Distress, & Crisis Home COVID-19 Stress, Distress, & Crisis Warning Signs for Suicide Helping Yourself Helping Others Get Help Now Stress, Distress, & Crisis Tips & Tools Self-care Psychiatry Group Program Outreach Let’s Talk I CARE Training STTOP International Student Programs and Resources Clinical Training Programs Referral Services Leave of Absence Policies Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Staff Directory Caring for Yourself and Others: Stress, Distress, and Crisis We all experience stress and a range of emotions including sadness, anger, fear, guilt, and shame. This is part of being human. Moderate, short-lived stress can improve performance, but can become unhealthy when it disrupts our day-to-day functioning. Stress can turn into distress when the demands we experience exceed our resources to cope. Further, whether it be our genetics, life experiences, or the shame that keeps things inside, we may not get the help we need, and may find ourselves in a state of crisis. This can include engaging in self-harm, thinking about suicide, or having thoughts of harming others. Wellness at Penn believes in a community of care and that we are all responsible for looking out for our own well-being and the well-being of others. The bottom line? You are not alone. And there is hope. Helping Yourself Helping Others Get Help Now Tips & Tools Home COVID-19 Stress, Distress, & Crisis Warning Signs for Suicide Helping Yourself Helping Others Get Help Now Stress, Distress, & Crisis Tips & Tools Self-care Psychiatry Group Program Outreach Let’s Talk I CARE Training STTOP International Student Programs and Resources Clinical Training Programs Referral Services Leave of Absence Policies Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Staff Directory Making History: The Campaign for Penn Helpful Links Academic Calendar Admissions Athletics Campus Maps College Houses Diversity at Penn Financial Aid Media Requests Penn News Public Safety Student Groups Work at Penn | Student Jobs © 2019 Counseling and Psychological Services at the University of Pennsylvania 3624 Market St. 1st Floor West, Philadelphia, PA 19104 1 (215) 898-7021 Contact CAPS Copyright | Privacy | Disclaimer | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help