Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources Concerned About a Student? If you believe that someone's life is in danger, call 911. Tell Somebody Anyone (students, faculty/staff, family) can submit a Tell Somebody report if they are concerned about an Aggie. Stop Hate Hate is not an Aggie value. Individuals may use the online report form to report hate/bias incidents. Suicide Prevention Training Students and Faculty/Staff can participate in Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training. Student Assistance Services Student Assistance Services can conduct Student Welfare Checks among other services. See the Division of Student Affairs "Concerning Behaviors Response Guide" Brief Faculty Guide on Student Mental Health Consultation CAPS counselors are available to consult with staff/faculty, family, and friends who may be concerned about a student. Consultations may occur in-person at the CAPS office or over the phone. During consultations, CAPS counselors maintain the confidentiality of students who are clients to the fullest extent of the law. Virtual At-Risk Intervention Training Kognito At-Risk is a 45-minute, online, interactive gatekeeper intervention training program that teaches students, faculty, and staff how to identify individuals exhibiting signs of psychological distress, including depression; approach individuals to discuss their concerns; and make referrals to Texas A&M Counseling and Psychological Services and other community resources. There are two versions you can use: At-Risk Peer Training & At-Risk for Faculty & Staff. Supporting a Friend: The National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) provides an excellent resource titled, "Want to Know How to Help a Friend?" Active Minds provides multiple resources for supporting our friends. The Jed Foundation provides an informative resource titled, "Help a Friend in Need". Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT