/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics The CAPS Major The CAPS Minor Courses Chinese Language Requirements Off-campus Semesters Faculty Affiliated, Visiting & Emeritus Faculty Career Planning Career Resources Internships Beijing Internship Database About Us Program Contacts Current Students CAPS Alumni The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: A unique approach with unparalleled opportunities The Levinson China and Asia-Pacific Studies Program The Brittany and Adam J. Levinson China and Asia-Pacific Studies program offers a unique approach to the study of contemporary China through a set of courses on China's language, history, politics, economy, society and foreign relations, and by providing students with experience both on-and-off campus, including three years in Ithaca, one optional semester in Washington D.C., and one required semester in Beijing. CAPS Resources CAPS Major Faculty Profiles Courses Program Contacts CAPS News Reunion 2022 features host of A&S events A number of special events are planned in the College of Arts & Sciences to celebrate Reunion 2022. Read More The catastrophic success of China’s zero-COVID policy In this op-ed, Prof. Jeremy Wallace explains the pitfalls of China's approach to the pandemic. Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More 'There is always more than one side to a story' Maggie Zhang Grobowski is a China & Asia-Pacific Studies & Government major. Read More Ten A&S faculty honored with endowed professorships These professorships continue the College’s priority to recognize faculty excellence and accomplishments. Read More Alumni gift to A&S supports doctoral students in the humanities A $5 million alumni gift will help to support doctoral students in humanities fields within the College of Arts & Sciences. Read More Nexus Scholars Program applications now open The program connects undergraduates in A&S with opportunities to work side by side on research with Cornell faculty from across the College. Read More Contentious issues between U.S., China unlikely to be resolved by zoom call Associate professor of government Allen Carlson comments on the scheduled meeting between President Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping. Read More See more news from CAPS Off-campus Learning: Beijing and Washington, D.C. The CAPS major gives students experience both on and off campus, including one required semester in Beijing and one optional semester with Cornell in Washington, during which students participate in internships and cultural immersion. This unique and ambitious program offers CAPS majors unprecedented pre-professional training mapped onto a solid Cornell liberal-arts education. learn more about our off-campus experience Career opportunities with CAPS With three years of intensive Chinese language training, internships in Beijing, and the option to complete additional internships in Washington, D.C., Cornell graduates with a major in CAPS are well suited for entry- or higher-level positions in consulting, journalism, law firms, businesses, financial services, NGOs, diplomacy, and other government and public service agencies. An undergraduate CAPS degree also readily prepares one for graduate studies in law, business, and other disciplines with a focus on China. Learn more about our career opportunities. CAPS 4001 Travel Journals: Learning Beyond the Classroom Wendy Chen '19: Field Trip to Dunhuang, Gansu Province 甘肃省, 敦煌市 Fall 2017 "Walking in the sand was incredibly tiring, each step was extremely taxing on the body, but it was so worth it. The eight of us got into sledding tubes that were linked to each other and down we go. I cheered as the adrenaline pumped through me, as the wind whipped my hair back, as the small individual grains of sand pelted my face and lodged itself into every single exposed surface of my body and clothes. Still, it was an amazing ride that was much too short for my (and some other people's) liking, inciting cheers of 'one more time!' and 'let's do it again!' as we got off our tubes and tried to shake the sand off of us to no avail." For all CAPS 4001 travel journals, click here. 105A Morrill Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email A&S Departments 607-255-2654 Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top