Skip to Content Counseling and Psychological Services Student Development and Enrollment Services Home About Services Groups Outreach Resources Training Diversity Contact Statement of Solidarity We at CAPS stand in solidarity with all members of our UCF community against any forms of violence, oppression, racism, xenophobia, or homophobia. We write to affirm our support for the dignity of all our diverse community members. CAPS is with you and stands alongside you. We share a collective responsibility to speak out against prejudice, discrimination or acts of violence that aim to further divide our communities. We are committed to speaking up, listening, and providing confidential support for all our diverse community members and allies to foster empowerment and resilience and reduce fear. We want to invite anyone who is being impacted by challenging current events to come to CAPS for support, or to use our after hours hotline/ crisis line for support at 407-823-2811 (press 5 afterhours). You are not alone. Call us if you need to talk with someone. Previous Next Home  Facebook  Instagram  Twitter  YouTube Forms & Appointment Scheduling Payment Lookup Emergency! CAPS Self-Help YouTube Videos Therapy Assistance Online (TAO) Self Help Community Provider Database Select Student Support, then CAPS Mental Health Fund To schedule an appointment, please click on the “Forms & Appointment Scheduling” green button located on the right-hand side. CAPS values your well-being. If you are feeling sick, please seek medical attention at UCF SHS or urgent care. Your health is our priority. We know this is a stressful time. Any student or employee who tests positive for COVID-19, regardless of whether they have been on any of UCF’s campuses, must call the COVID Line, 407-823-2509 to initiate the contact-tracing process, which helps to identify potential exposures and prevent additional spread. If you feel sick, even with only mild symptoms such as a headache, cough or low-grade fever, do not come to work or class. Stay away from others and monitor your symptoms, and contact your healthcare provider if they get worse. We have added some helpful coping information and tools: Mental Health and Coping during COVID-19 Join CAPS staff for a Well-Being Online Workshop (WOW). Click HERE to see the schedule and get the zoom link News & Announcements No news articles at this time. More News Upcoming Events May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 Jun 1 Application Deadlin More Events Page Navigation Home About Services Groups Outreach Resources Training Diversity Contact Contact Us Counseling and Psychological Services Phone 407-823-2811 Location Counseling Center, Room 101 University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida