Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources Xenophobia & Racism Around the Coronavirus Stress, fear, and anxiety are normal reactions to public health crises, such as the current coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. These feelings can fuel stigma and discrimination, such as xenophobia and racism, toward a particular group of people, whether done consciously or not. Individuals of Asian descent, both international and domestic, as well as those perceived to be a part of these communities are being associated with the coronavirus. As a result, they are being stigmatized and subjected to racism and xenophobia in our country and communities. Sometimes this xenophobia presents as a concern for hygiene, health, and wellness that nevertheless targets these communities and has a negative mental health impact on them that compounds the physical, emotional, and psychological stress already experienced as a result of the public health crisis. We all can fall prey to our fear and anxieties and act on prejudice and bias. In order to prevent xenophobia and racism and instead promote inclusion during this time of uncertainty and crisis, we all need to: Assess whether our views and reactions to the coronavirus come from a place of prejudice. Challenge any biases in ourselves and in our social networks to reduce the stereotyping and stigmatizing of individuals and communities of Asian descent. Do not: assume that people of Asian descent have the coronavirus blame an entire group of people for the pandemic make jokes or comments that promote this stereotype/misinformation Educate ourselves about social norms and practices in other countries: it is a social norm in many countries to wear a facemask during cold and flu season we should not assume that a person wearing a facemask is ill and that they should be avoided Consider the impact of our actions on others: people who are scapegoated and stigmatized can be more reluctant to seek out medical care when symptomatic this stigmatization can affect not only their mental health but also their physical health, and indirectly, the health and recovery of our entire community Call out and interrupt racism - Be an ally It is important that we not allow fear and panic to guide our actions. No amount of fear or anxiety can excuse racism or xenophobia. Instead, we should have compassion, understanding, and empathy for one another, especially during such a challenging time. Adapted from the CDC, APA, Loyola University, and University of Michigan. Normal Reactions to Xenophobia and Racism Increased anxiety Shame Anger Fear Helplessness Denial Retreating inward Lowered self-worth Ways to Manage the Impact of Xenophobia and Racism Recognize experiences of racism are real Process feelings and experiences with those you trust Try not to internalize messages that say you don't belong or that you are the problem or to blame Engage in mindfulness techniques, including deep breathing, & practice affirmations ("I am whole. I am good.") Reflect on what brings you pride in who you are - your ancestry and intersecting identities Recognize the many strengths in your communities and reject attacks on your values Remember you are part of a larger community and that you are not alone Stand together and in solidarity by staying connected through social media and online communities Find purpose Focus on what you can control Engage in activities that bring you joy and/or express gratitude The Asian American Psychological Association (AAPA) Executive Committee Releases Public Statement on COVID-19 “All of us–regardless of our race, ethnicity, national origin, or citizenship–are striving to cope with anxiety and fear brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic and the social isolation precautions needed to reduce its spread. As an organization whose mission is to advance the mental health and well-being of Asian American communities, we draw attention to the additional stressors faced by our communities who are contending with increased stigma, racism, and xenophobia.” Please follow the link to read the full Statement. Read more about ways to manage racial trauma "Normal reactions" & "Ways to manage" information above was adapted from the following articles: Responding to Racism During the COVID-19 Outbreak - from the Anxiety & Depression Association of America Surviving Racism Amidst Covid-19 - from Medium Disarming Racism from a Psychological Perspective COVID-19 and Asian Communities: Where Racism and Bigotry Are Also a Health Hazard https://drgallardo.com/podlove/file/178/s/webplayer/c/episode/23-COVID_19_and_Asian_Communities.mp3 - Cultural Humility Podcast by Miguel E. Gallardo, Psy.D. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT