Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources CAPS Services CAPS is committed to supporting students' mental health and wellbeing. Service Model & Scope of Practice Individual Counseling The primary function of CAPS is to support students’ mental health needs in order to meet their academic goals within a time window framed by service eligibility, class schedules, student obligations and CAPS resources. Individual counseling allows students to meet one-on-one with a counselor for an average of approximately 3-5 individual consultations/counseling sessions per student, with some flexibility to extend intervention up to 10 sessions per academic year. In an effort to fulfill the CAPS Public Health Model and serve as many students as possible, at high-traffic points in the semester, CAPS services switch to a single-session focus. During these times, the option to schedule multi-session meetings will be suspended in lieu of one-time, goal-focused sessions to address specific needs in a single 50-minute meeting with a counselor. These collaborative sessions address specific, solution-focused strategies based on individual students' needs and are not suited to addressing more chronic concerns or patterns. Students needing ongoing support following the session may be connected to additional CAPS or community resources. First-time appointments at CAPS are scheduled through the CAPS Student Portal and will take place by phone. Note: We are here to serve our students. If you do not see a time that works for you in our online scheduling system, please call us at 979-845-4427, and we'll work to get you connected with a counselor. Crisis Counseling Students in need of immediate emotional support may visit CAPS for crisis intervention anytime 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., Monday-Friday, when the university is open. For after-hours assistance, HelpLine can be reached at 979-845-2700 from 4 p.m. - 8 a.m., Monday-Friday, and 24 hours a day on weekends when class is in session. Note: Individuals currently experiencing a life threatening situation or safety risk should call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room immediately. Visit our Emergency Resources page for additional information, including links to local mental health resources, local emergency room and police department details and crisis hotlines. Community Referrals CAPS maintains Community Referral resources for students in need of assistance in locating counseling, psychiatric, medical or other social service needs in the community. Resources for Individuals Concerned about a Student Note: If you believe someone's life is in danger, please call 911 immediately. For guidance and resources on identifying and addressing concerning behaviors, CAPS provides resources for faculty/staff, family and other students. In the event that a student is exhibiting concerning behaviors or speech, CAPS counselors also are available to consult with concerned individuals (to include staff/faculty, family and other students) as needed. Consultation requests can be made by calling CAPS at 979-845-4427. During consultations, CAPS counselors maintain the confidentiality of students who are clients to the fullest extent of the law. Learning Disability & ADHD Screening For students who think they may be struggling with a learning disability or ADHD, CAPS provides a screening service to help determine if a formal evaluation (conducted by an outside provider) is indicated. The screening process includes: The screening process includes: an onsite assessment appointment with the testing coordinator, a clinical questionnaire completed by the student, and a session with a counselor to review the questionnaire, the results of the assessments, gather additional history, and provide recommendations. The CAPS screening process does not result in a diagnosis, medication, or university accommodations. Because a formal evaluation can be expensive, the screening process is a decision-making tool for your next steps. If you would like to go straight to a formal evaluation in the community for a diagnosis or accommodations, you can bypass CAPS completely and contact a community therapist directly. To learn who provides formal evaluations in the Bryan/College Station area, you can schedule with the CAPS Referral specialist directly through the portal. If you have non-urgent questions about the screening process or formal evaluations, and you aren’t ready to make an appointment yet, you can request for the Learning Disability/ADHD Specialist to contact you. Please note that she will respond when able, and it may take several business days. My SSP @ TAMU The My SSP @ TAMU app provides FREE, immediate 24/7 real time chat and phone support, along with virtual single session and short-term counseling. Users also gain access to an extensive digital content library, containing articles, podcasts, infographics and videos addressing a variety of wellbeing topics, as well as access to free virtual fitness sessions. Groups CAPS offers a variety of telehealth groups - read more about types of groups and times offered on our Group Counseling page. Learn more about the benefits of group counseling. Workshops CAPS offers a variety of telehealth workshops. Students can self-enroll for a workshop through the student portal. Many pre-recorded workshops also are available anytime in video format on our self-help pages. Career Counseling & Exploration CAPS provides career counseling services to assist students in identifying the steps in their career development and exploration, which may include incorporating career assessments. Focus 2 is a self-paced, interactive career planning program designed to help you explore college majors and plan your career based on your interests, values, skills, personality, and professional goals. It is provided free of charge for currently enrolled Texas A&M students. For First-Time Users, please log into the CAPS Student Portal to retrieve the access code found on the homepage of the portal. Then you can create a new user account using your TAMU email address. For Returning Users, please sign in to Focus 2. Alcohol & Other Drug Services CAPS provides support for students who are reassessing their use of alcohol and/or drugs (AOD). AOD services include providing students individualized assessments to help them learn more about their substance use and the impact on their life. In addition, students can work with a counselor to help them build and maintain motivation to reduce their usage, set personal goals, gain strategies for leading a more balanced life, and feel supported as they explore choices that are right for them. Requests for Documentation While You Wait for Your Appointment Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT