Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources Crisis Intervention CAPS provides non-emergency, same day assistance for immediate emotional support needs. For life-threatening concerns or when the university is closed, see Emergency Resources. Some reasons to seek crisis intervention may include: Suicidal thoughts or thoughts of self-harm that do not include immediate risk to safety (if concerned about current safety, call 911) Having recently experienced a physical or sexual assault Hearing voices or seeing things Having recently experienced or witnessed a threat to life or safety Having recently experienced the death of a loved one or a significant loss Being unable to provide for your own food, clothing, and/or shelter Having experienced or witnessed violence, hate-based incidents, or natural disasters that impact you and/or people you care about. Having strong emotional reactions to marginalized identity-related discrimination. If you believe you are in need of immediate emotional support, please come to CAPS anytime between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday when the university is open. HelpLine is available from 4 p.m. to 8 a.m. weekdays and 24 hours a day on weekends when classes are in session at (979) 845-2700. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT