Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources CAPS cares about you and your mental health! Schedule an Appointment Crisis Intervention Concern For a Student? What to Expect Diversity & Inclusion End of Semester Care Workshops Make a Donation to Support Aggies' Mental Health Racial trauma is real. More unspeakable acts of racism continue to be inflicted upon our Black communities, compounding the pain and trauma of generations. We want to welcome students to connect with us here at CAPS. If you are looking for a safe space to talk about the impact of these senseless acts, please visit our Let's Talk program. You can also schedule an initial tele-consultation via our student portal. Microaggressions Racism Around Coronavirus Resources The Steve Fund is dedicated to the mental health and emotional well-being of students of color. If you are a young person of color who is feeling stressed, depressed, or anxious, please know you can text the crisis text line to connect with a trained crisis counselor 24/7. Crisis Text Line - Text STEVE to 741741 Learn More Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT