Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources Campus Outreach & Engagement The Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) staff are infusing energy into emotional wellness, prevention and educational programming. It is our mission to assist in the creation of a healthy campus environment through community awareness, stigma reduction and the fostering of emotional wellbeing as CAPS moves beyond our doors to work collaboratively and innovatively with the larger campus community. A large component of our collaboration with the campus community is our Suicide Awareness & Prevention Office, which continues to be committed to the empowerment of our students, staff and faculty as we move forward in our mission to destigmatize suicide and mental health concerns. We aim to impact our Aggie community by creating an understanding of the need for relational connection and support as we increase awareness of the mental health needs of our students. As a part of the Aggie community, CAPS values and celebrates the diversity of our students. We recognize that systems of privilege, power, and oppression can negatively impact students’ lives, their adjustment to college, their mental health and overall wellness, and thereby their academic success. CAPS aims to provide opportunities for students to share and process their experiences as multicultural beings with various intersecting identities Outreach Services CAPS Outreach encompasses a variety of services that seek to meet the specific psychological and interpersonal needs of the campus community. Examples of services we frequently provide include: Wellness, Prevention, Outreach Presentations* Resource tables at campus events Liaisons to campus organizations and departments Support services at campus events Consultations *CAPS staff can provide presentations on a wide variety of topics that are designed to support our students. These include, but are not limited to, adjustment, CAPS resources, diversity initiatives, emotional wellness, stress reduction and suicide awareness. Making a Request We are happy to receive requests from all members of our campus community including student groups/organizations, staff, faculty, and administrators. To the degree that our staffs’ schedule allows, we provide outreach services directly to staff, faculty, and administrators to enhance their understanding of CAPS services and their skills to support our Aggie students. While CAPS will make an effort to meet requests, certain times of the year do not allow CAPS the time or resources to do outreach programs. However, it is best if you give at least three weeks notice for a presentation and can assure that at least 10 participants will attend. If CAPS is unable to meet your need, we will suggest other resources to you. Please complete the CAPS Outreach Request Form if you would like us to provide an outreach to your class, department, or student organization. We also encourage students to visit our list of workshops to learn about other educational programs offered by CAPS staff. Request an Outreach Let's Talk: Diversity Initiatives Kognito: Distressed Students Mental Health & Wellness Apps Suicide Awareness & Prevention: Trainings & Presentations Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT