Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS applies a Public Health Model to prevention, education and treatment for mental health. We believe everyone in the campus community plays an important role in students’ mental health, and we rely on collaboration with campus partners to help students reach their academic potential. Since we serve such a large community at TAMU, CAPS embraces our responsibility to meet student needs in an equitable way with the resources made available to us by the university. The primary function of CAPS is to support students’ mental health needs in order to meet their academic goals within a time window framed by service eligibility, class schedules, student obligations, and CAPS resources. CAPS averages approximately 3-5 individual consultations/counseling sessions per student, with some flexibility to extend intervention up to 10 sessions per academic year. When classes are in session, we provide a range of mental health services. Once final exams begin, our counselors are available for urgent, crisis-related services and will resume all services the first day of the following semester. Our website also has a number of self-help resources and recorded workshops covering a range of mental health concerns. Clinically, CAPS utilizes a goal-oriented, short-term model approach emphasizing use of: Group Therapy Workshops Psychoeducation and Self-help resources Connecting with other TAMU departmental resources * Group therapy and workshops are unlimited for eligible students. Clinical services are structured to prioritize: Student access to CAPS Assessment of needs Increase awareness and understanding of mental-health concerns Stabilization of mental-health concerns Connection/Referral to sustainable external resources for ongoing care Common Concerns & Practices CAPS provides individual brief, goal-oriented assessment and counseling for mild to moderate common mental health concerns such as stress/anxiety, depression, relational stress, career development, and adjustment concerns with the goal of transitioning to external sustainable, ongoing resources as clinically needed. More critical, severe mental health concerns are addressed via stabilization and referral to external resources. Such referrals might occur immediately following an initial assessment or at any time during the treatment process based on clinical judgment. Services beyond 10 sessions necessitate an internal, departmental-supported treatment plan review that prioritizes presentations contributing to higher risk of not persisting towards academic goals, such as: Acute safety concerns Critical/Urgent-incident support Complex clinical presentations (with the goal of assessment, stabilization and referral) Barriers to accessing external resources for mental health care Accessibility for psychiatric services is only through a referral process. Scope of psychiatric services is determined by clinical judgment and availability. Students who have established a psychiatric provider within about a 200-mile radius are typically encouraged to continue with that provider. Crisis intervention is available for eligible students Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. HelpLine is available from 4 p.m. to 8 a.m and 24 hours over the weekend when classes are in session. Community Referral Given that CAPS utilizes a goal-oriented, short-term model approach to meet the needs of as many students as possible, there will be clinical issues that will likely be addressed through a community referral. Again, these referrals might occur immediately following an initial assessment or at any time during the treatment process based on clinical judgment. There are other reasons why we may refer students to community resources as well: Clinical Issues That May Indicate Community Referral Clinical issues that will likely be addressed through a community referral include but are not limited to: Students with chronic mental health conditions that require longer-term, ongoing care. Clinical presentations, such as some personality disorders, that indicate short-term therapy may be ineffective and/or detrimental. A need or desire to be seen more frequently than CAPS can accommodate. Excessive utilization of CAPS crisis intervention services indicates that standard session frequency is inadequate. Chronic suicidality and/or recent history of multiple suicide attempts. Severe and chronic self-injury. A history of multiple psychiatric hospitalizations. Issues that require more specialized care than can be provided at CAPS, including: Significant or chronic disordered eating symptoms posing medical danger Significant or chronic substance use/abuse which interferes with engagement in therapy Active symptoms of psychosis at risk for progressive deterioration. Other Reasons for Community Referral Other reasons why we may refer students to community resources include, but are not limited to: Lack of motivation or engagement in treatment, as evidenced by: Unwillingness to provide information sufficient for clinical assessment Inability to identify a treatment goal appropriate for brief mental health counseling Inconsistent attendance (More than 2 no shows and/or late cancellations may require a meeting with an administrator) Poor compliance with treatment recommendations Ongoing treatment relationship with another mental health provider. Inappropriate, harassing, menacing, threatening, or violent behaviors. Mandated or required treatment, including, but not limited to: Counseling ordered through legal proceedings, such as substance abuse treatment, alcohol education, anger management, parenting education, or domestic violence treatment Counseling required by external entities, such as employers, government agencies, academic departments, or classes Comprehensive psychological evaluation of any type, including, but not limited to: Neuropsychological evaluations Forensic assessments Custody evaluations Assessment and documentation for service or support animals State/Federal benefit programs, including vocational rehabilitation and social security/disability Fitness-for-duty evaluations Pre-surgical mental health evaluations When treatment is not advancing, the ethical guidelines of the mental health providers of the CAPS may necessitate termination of therapy and referral to community resources. Other situations that are determined to be outside the scope of services provided by CAPS, or in which case a clinical staff member determines that treatment would be detrimental to the client or to the proper functioning of the facility. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT