Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources What to Expect Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS Professional Practices Requests for Documentation Making an appointment To begin the process of making an appointment, log into the Student Portal. There you will be directed to some registration paperwork, and after that is completed, you will have the option of scheduling a first-time appointment or a single session depending on the time of semester. You will receive an email confirming your appointment within one business day. If you have trouble logging in or cannot find an appointment at your preferred time, call CAPS at 979-845-4427 or email caps@tamu.edu to request help. Routinely, first-time appointments may take up to 10 business days to be scheduled. Check out resources to utilize while you wait. You can also select various workshops through the portal. Appointments are available between 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Monday - Friday. Limited evening services are sometimes available for ongoing appointments in the fall and spring semesters. The first appointment Your first appointment will be a consultation that occurs over the phone. The counselor will likely call you from a number with no caller ID, so it is important you ensure your device is able to receive such calls. During this appointment, the counselor will verify your current address and emergency contacts, discuss the privacy of your current location, and inquire about any questions you might have about the required paperwork. For this appointment, it is important that you be in a quiet, private place that is free of distractions and that you refrain from multitasking, such as driving, during the time of your appointment. You may be asked to reschedule your appointment if you are unable to participate in a private, distraction-free space. The counselor will gather information about your concerns and discuss treatment options that will be most helpful for you. Options may include ongoing individual telehealth, group telehealth, self-help and self-guided resources, and/or other resources located within your local community. Read more about What to Expect in your Telehealth Appointments. Getting the most benefit from counseling Personal commitment to your own growth and change is crucial to success in counseling. You can enhance your development by being open and taking risks, such as disclosing information that is difficult to talk about, and by actively participating in sessions. You can continue the counseling process between sessions by thinking about what you have talked about and experienced during sessions, focusing on the changes you want to make, and working on specific goals discussed with your counselor. Eligibility To receive services at CAPS, students must be currently enrolled at Texas A&M University and have paid the University Advancement Fee for the semester in which they are seeking services. During the summer, Texas A&M students who are not currently enrolled in courses can still utilize CAPS services if they were enrolled in the Spring, are enrolled in the Fall, and pay a $25 bridge charge. If you meet this criteria, please fill out our Summer Services Request Form. If you have additional questions about eligibility or accessing the student portal, please give us a call. *If you are a new incoming student, you will be able to register for our services on the first day of class. In the meantime, explore our self-help resources. Canceling or missing appointments Keeping appointments and being on time is part of the personal commitment to counseling you must make. If an illness or a rare emergency causes you to be unable to keep your appointment, you must contact us and cancel the appointment as far in advance as possible so that we can offer your time slot to another Aggie. Since it is not usually beneficial to engage in shortened sessions, your appointment may be rescheduled if you are late. PLEASE NOTE Failure to show for an appointment at the scheduled time will result in a $25 charge added to student accounts (also visible to anyone with access to a student’s account). A $50 charge will be applied to student accounts reflective of no-shows for psychiatric appointments. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT