Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources Get Help Now A Simple Conversation Can Help Save a Life The Suicide Awareness & Prevention Office offers a variety of services for individuals, programs, departments, and student groups. Knowing the signs of suicide is important in helping someone who may be at risk. By offering your understanding, reassurance, and support, you can help your loved one or friend seek the help they need. Aggies Reaching Aggies Aggies Reaching Aggies is a brand-new Suicide & Prevention Peer Educator Program. Volunteers will facilitate Gatekeeper presentations on the topic of suicide prevention, support, and mental health to fellow students. Suicide Awareness Week Sponsored by Aggies Reaching Aggies, Suicide Awareness Week is an opportunity for the Texas A&M community to come together and learn more about suicide prevention and advertise for new Aggies Reaching Aggies Peer Educators. Training Empower yourself to recognize and help those who are struggling by becoming more informed and prepared through our various training opportunities. Learn more about QPR training, Campus Connect, Gatekeeper 2.0, and Kognito. Support Counseling & Psychological Services offers many services to help support Texas A& M University students. Learn more about crisis intervention, group counseling, individual counseling, and workshops. Warning Signs There’s no single cause for suicide. Suicide most often occurs when stressors converge to create an experience of hopelessness and despair. Learn more about the warning signs of suicide and how you can be more prepared. Survivors of Suicide Loss If you have lost a loved one to suicide, you are not alone. Losing a loved one to suicide is a devastating loss that shatters our sense of a predictable world. It may take time, but it is possible to heal from this loss. Learn more about the support offered for survivors of suicide loss. Volunteer HelpLine provides, by telephone, peer support, information, referrals, and crisis assessment and intervention for Texas A&M students. HelpLine is open from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. on weekdays, and 24 hours a day on the weekends. Learn more about HelpLine. Suicide Awareness Event Highlights The Suicide Awareness & Prevention Office hosts various events throughout the year to raise awareness about suicide prevention and support those who have been impacted by suicide. Make a Donation The CAPS Excellence Fund supports Suicide Awareness & Prevention programs as well as overall mental health initiatives for Aggies. Please consider donating to one of the many organizations that contribute to efforts to prevent suicide. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT