Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources Conference Schedule | Attendee Conference Schedule | Conference Information | Accessibility Info | Past Conference Foci & Presenters 2022 Theme: Exploring Religion, Faith and Spirituality in College Counseling We are excited to host another Zoom conference on May 19th & 20th in 2022! We will have a variety of session options available and provide 12 CEU hours (including 3 ETHICS CEU's). Register Here! Regular Conference Rate: $50 (registration closes at 4pm CT, Wednesday, May 18th!) Early Bird Rate: $30 (through 5pm CT, Friday, April 22nd) *Fee is waived for conference presenters, students/trainees, and CAPS retirees. These attendees still need to register and select the appropriate attendee type. We will email information to those who register, including how to access sessions, closer to the conference. We want to create accessibility to this important topic and also recognize potential barriers that may impede the ability to pay a fee, such as budget cuts that impact professional development funds. To request a fee waiver, please email Bethany Smith, M.A., LPC-S, NCC, SJCCC Chair. SJCCC History & Audience From 2004-2016, Counseling & Psychological Services, or CAPS (formerly known as Student Counseling Service), at Texas A&M University hosted an annual 2-day conference called “College Counseling in a Multicultural World”. This conference focused on providing counseling services in a college counseling environment to various diverse student populations. From 2017-2019, our focus shifted to social justice topics to more directly address how systemic variables of power, privilege and oppression impact our college students from marginalized backgrounds. Our hope with this shift was to provide knowledge and skills to mental health providers within college counseling centers and universities to better serve these students. We plan to continue this important work in future conferences to come. Visit our Diversity & Inclusion pages to explore resources we have available for students with marginalized identities. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT