Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources End of Semester Care/While you Wait Service Model & Scope of Practice When classes are in session, we provide a range of mental health services. Once final exams begin, our counselors are available for urgent, crisis-related services and will resume all services the first day of the following semester. Our website also has a number of self-help resources and recorded workshops covering a range of mental health concerns. Routinely, initial appointments may take up to 10 business days to be scheduled. At extremely busy times of the semester, the wait time may be longer. During the final weeks of the semester, CAPS primarily offers single session appointments. The focus of these sessions is on addressing the specific, immediate concerns of students and identifying resources, coping skills, and additional support that will contribute to students’ academic success. Depending on the nature and outcome of the session, there may be some limited options for follow-up. Given the high volume of appointments and the short amount of time at the end of the semester, wait-times to the first appointment and between sessions may be extended. Additionally, follow-up appointments may be brief. This is because we are trying to optimize our services for as many students as possible during this stressful time of the semester. We strongly encourage students to capitalize on the many resources CAPS has available while waiting for an appointment or during the time between semesters. Here are some things for you to explore: Download the My SSP app to access real-time virtual counseling 24/7 via chat or phone, schedule short-term counseling appointments via telehealth with the same provider, and explore an extensive on-demand content library. Check out our Self-Help page for videos, information, tips, and resources on popular topics, including: Anxiety Depression Meditation Motivation Sleep Self-Compassion Explore brief videos on our Workshop webpage: Accepting Emotions Perfectionism Worthiness Imposter Phenomenon Drop in to one of our virtual Let’s Talk programs at the LGBTQ+ Pride Center, DMS, or ISS (not available between semesters) Peruse our social media platforms; many posts contain resources and tips based on current events! Call our HelpLine at (979) 845-2700 for support anytime between 4pm and 8am during the week and 24 hours on the weekends when classes are in session. Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT