Menu Search Search Counseling & Psychiatric Services Student Health & Wellness Director's Welcome In Crisis? About Services Resources Faculty/Staff Referrals Training Give Events Hate Has No Home Here We stand against violence and silence. See our statements. New to CAPS? Schedule a consultation online by clicking the button below. Get Started Our Mission: To connect students with the most appropriate and available care and services that optimize their health, well-being and success. Getting Started Complete a brief questionnaire by clicking the "Get Started" button below to let us know about your goals and to schedule a consultation. For more information about oline scheduling and what to expect from the consultation, visit our scheduling page. Need someone to talk to right now? Crisis services are available 24/7. Call (517) 355-8270 and press “1” at the prompt to speak with a crisis counselor. If you think you you or someone around you is in danger, call 911 or head to the nearest emergency room. Get Started Access & Resources Learn how to access student mental health services and explore self-guided online resources, like our Virtual Care Kit, COVID-19 resources, resources for class assignments and more. View Resources Group Counseling Interact at your own pace with others facing similar situations. Learn more CAPS Connect Free, confidential 10- to 15-minute virtual consultations. Talk With Us Our Team CAPS services are provided by care managers, social workers, licensed professional counselors, psychologists, psychiatrists, and psychiatric nurses. Meet Us Virtual CAPS Outreach Request Outreach services to help build awareness, reduce stigma, and increase help-seeking behavior. Make a Request Our Commitment At CAPS, we use multicultural and collaborative approaches to provide quality care. Learn more. CAPS is proud to be accredited by the International Accreditation of Counseling Services (IACS) and the American Psychological Association (APA). Twitter Facebook Instagram (517) 355-8270 Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University