Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources Vision To be a nationally recognized leader in college mental health through providing outstanding prevention, education and counseling services. Mission In support of the mission of TAMU and the Division of Student Affairs, Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) contributes to student learning and development. We provide exceptional services and programming focused on student mental health. CAPS exists to advance student development and academic success by providing personalized and evidenced-based mental health care to Aggies. Commitments We are committed to respecting and celebrating the diverse students at Texas A&M University. We commit to enriching student development and growth through compassion, empowerment, advocacy and empathy. CAPS aligns with the Division of Student Affairs in adhering to the following commitments: Responsibility We are committed to being innovative, efficient and effective stewards of our financial, physical, technological, and personnel resources. We are committed to making student-centered, data informed, knowledge driven decisions. A commitment to responsibility also means a commitment to fulfilling our mission through intentional, collegial and ethical practices. Well-being We are committed to promoting and supporting holistic areas of wellbeing including physical, mental, emotional, social, intellectual, and spiritual. Discovery We are committed to lifelong learning and providing opportunities to reflect on individual knowledge of character, abilities, and beliefs. Diversity and Inclusion We are committed to cultivating a campus environment where people from all backgrounds and experiences can thrive. We build and model a welcoming environment that promotes a deeper understanding of identities of an increasingly diverse population. What to Expect Location, Hours & Contact Info Meet Our Staff Diversity Statement Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT