Student Portal About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concerned About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Emergency Resources Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Counseling & Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Student Portal Search website... About Meet Our Staff What to Expect Location, Hours, & Contact Info CAPS Service Model & Scope of Practice CAPS’ Vision/Mission SJCCC Texas Supervision Symposium Services Outreach Suicide Awareness & Prevention Training Resources Concern About a Student Diversity & Inclusion HelpLine Response to University Tragedy Self-Help Distance Ed/Satellite Campuses Emergency Resources Microaggressions This page is a resource for anyone who has experienced microaggression or witnessed the microaggression of others. While this is not a comprehensive information page, it has various tools you can use to cope with and combat microaggressions. Counseling & Psychological Service (CAPS) invites anyone who wants to process lived experiences or further discuss the topic of microaggressions to setup an appointment and come talk to one of our many helpful counselors. Microaggressions: brief, subtle, negative and invalidating messages, whether intentional or unintentional, that are directed on a regular basis to people in minoritized groups based on race/ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, documentation/citizenship status, ability, religion, etc. Microaggressions are a form of discrimination, and their impact is real. Types of Microaggressions Microinsults - Convey insensitivity, are rude, or demean an individual’s identity or heritage. Microinvalidations - Exclude, negate, or nullify an individuals’ thoughts or feelings. Microassaults – Discriminate in an overt form. Actors deliberately behave in discriminatory ways, but they contend their intention is not to offend others and think their actions are not noticed or harmful. (Sue, Capodilupo, & Holder, 2008). Impact of Microaggressions Addressing Microaggressions Toolkits for Microaggressions Site Footer CONNECT WITH US Counseling & Psychological Services Student Services Building, 4th Floor 471 Houston St. | 1263 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1263 P: 979.845.4427 F: 979.862.4383 caps@tamu.edu HelpLine: 979.845.2700 Privacy & Security Statement Accessibility Copyright 2022 • Counseling & Psychological Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT