Skip to Content Counseling and Psychological Services Student Development and Enrollment Services Home About Services Groups Outreach Resources Training Diversity Contact Statement of Solidarity We at CAPS stand in solidarity with all members of our UCF community against any forms of violence, oppression, racism, xenophobia, or homophobia. We write to affirm our support for the dignity of all our diverse community members. CAPS is with you and stands alongside you. We share a collective responsibility to speak out against prejudice, discrimination or acts of violence that aim to further divide our communities. We are committed to speaking up, listening, and providing confidential support for all our diverse community members and allies to foster empowerment and resilience and reduce fear. We want to invite anyone who is being impacted by challenging current events to come to CAPS for support, or to use our after hours hotline/ crisis line for support at 407-823-2811 (press 5 afterhours). Services Counseling can take a number of forms. The decision about which type of service may be appropriate is based on many factors, including your current concerns and needs, your counseling history, scheduling considerations, and availability of resources. Our goal in this process is to find the best way to attend to your concerns in the most effective and efficient way. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) offers the following services and works within a brief therapy model. If you are interested in making an appointment, want to learn more about our confidentiality policy, or have additional questions, visit the above links for more information. If you attend the Rosen College of Hospitality Management, you can learn more about your options by visiting this link. CAPS therapists speak and offer therapy in the following languages: English, Spanish and additional languages. Types of Services Offered Initial Assessment All registered UCF students who pay the health fee are entitled to an initial assessment to determine what the focus of therapy will be and what type of services are most appropriate for a particular problem. Individual Counseling In a one-on-one interaction with a counselor, you are encouraged to express feelings, examine thoughts and beliefs, reflect on patterns of behavior, and work toward making healthy changes in your life. Group Counseling and Workshops Therapy Groups are led by professional staff and offer students a supportive and stimulating environment to explore common issues of concern. We encourage you to learn more about Group Counseling and to browse our complete list of current groups offered this semester at CAPS. CAPS also offers workshops. A workshop is a 1 time psycho-educational program on a variety of topics. For a complete list of workshops and dates, go to this page. Couples/Conjoint Counseling Couples may seek premarital, marital, divorce, sexual adjustment, or alternative life-style counseling. Any two students, such as roommates, may also utilize this service to improve their relationship or to work out communication problems. Both students must be enrolled at UCF to be eligible. Crisis Counseling Our staff offers crisis intervention services during regular office hours. Students under 18 years of age can be seen on a limited basis without parental consent while they are in crisis. Check our Emergency Services page for more information. Afterhours, call our number and press 5 to be connected to a counselor. Therapy Assistance Online (TAO) Treatment Therapy Assistance Online (TAO) is an up to 8 week, interactive, online therapy program that provides assistance for anxiety, depression, and other concerns. TAO is based on well researched and highly effective strategies for helping students in these areas. Throughout treatment, clients will watch videos and complete exercises individually for up to 2 hours per week, and then meet with a therapist via videoconferencing for a 10-15 minute appointment. Therapy Assistance Online (TAO) Self Help TAO Self Help is an interactive, web-based program that provides assistance to help overcome anxiety, depression, and other concerns. TAO is based on well researched and highly effective strategies. You can choose to view short, but helpful videos, take part in brief exercises, use logs to track moods and progress, and have access to a Mindfulness Library. Togetherall Togetherall is an anonymous peer to peer platform to support mental health. You need a Knights email to register and you have access to millions of peole around the world 24/7 365 days a year. Kognito Kognito is a set of role-play, avatar modules to educate faculty, staff, and students about mental health and suicide prevention and how to support someone who is in distress or may need a referral. Additional Services Offered Outreach & Prevention Services The professional staff is available to present programs on a number of student developmental concerns. We invite you to inquire about our Outreach and Prevention Services and to browse the programs offered this semester as part of our Self-Discovery Knights at the Student Union. Research CAPS staff members engage in research on a variety of issues related to college student mental health as well as conduct ongoing evaluation of our services. Our research page includes current research projects, selected results from evaluation data, a monthly brief summary of research relevant to students, and information on how you can partner with CAPS on a research project. Internship and Practicum Our internship prepares trainees as strong generalists in the practice of psychology. The training is agency-based with opportunities to gain experience in CAPS functions such as clinical interviewing, individual, and group counseling/psychotherapy; consultation and outreach; supervision and training; and crisis intervention. Letter Requests UCF Counseling and Psychological Services occasionally receive requests from students/clients to provide documentation regarding their services and/or recommendations. Trans Care Services The Trans Care Team at UCF CAPS provides support to students who are pursuing gender confirming procedures, specifically documentation for Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT). The team is comprised of CAPS clinicians who have training & experience working with individuals with gender dysphoria and related concerns. Trans Care Team providers work closely with you during the evaluation process to determine readiness for hormone therapy based on WPATH Standards of Care & an appropriate treatment plan for related mental health concerns, if applicable. Treatment Teams Substance Abuse Treatment Team (SATT) SATT is a team of professionals dedicated to the treatment and care of substance use disorders and related concerns. CAPS clinicians as well as Behavioral Health Providers and Psychiatrists from Student Health Services (SHS) have joined together to help you. The SATT provides non-intensive outpatient management of substance use disorders. All students who consent to SATT services are required to complete the following initial evaluations: Substance Abuse Assessment, Psychological Evaluation, and a Psychiatric Evaluation (when clinically indicated). Most of these services are free of charge to all enrolled UCF students. In the event that a student would benefit from longer term or more intensive treatment, the team will support the student in connecting and transitioning to an off-campus provider specializing in substance use disorder treatment. To get started, call CAPS or talk to your CAPS therapist or talk to one of the medical providers at SHS. Eating Disorder Management Team (EDMT) EDMT is a team of professionals dedicated to the treatment and care of eating disorders and body image concerns. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) clinicians as well as Medical Providers, Dietitians, and Psychiatrists from Student Health Services (SHS) have joined together to help you. The EDMT provides non-intensive outpatient management of eating disorders. All students who consent to EDMT services are required to complete the following initial evaluations: Medical Evaluation, Nutrition Evaluation, Psychological Evaluation, and a Psychiatric Evaluation (when clinically indicated). Most of these services are free of charge to all enrolled UCF students. In the event that a student would benefit from longer term or more intensive treatment, the team will support the student in connecting and transitioning to an off-campus provider specializing in eating disorder treatment. To get started, call CAPS or talk to your CAPS therapist or talk to one of the medical providers at SHS. Services Menu Services Appointments Confidentiality Frequently Asked Questions Upcoming Events May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 Jun 1 Application Deadlin More Events Page Navigation Home About Services Groups Outreach Resources Training Diversity Contact Contact Us Counseling and Psychological Services Phone 407-823-2811 Location Counseling Center, Room 101 University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida