Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Captioning and Transcription Services Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Captioning and Transcription Services Search Search Search Search Home Expand Services Expand Cost Expand About Expand Frequently Asked Questions Expand Captioning and Transcription Services Services Make a Request Request captions, transcription and create your own automated transcripts. Overview and Prices Looking for live captions? More information Automated transcription is now available for through the main request portal Equal access to video and audio content is critical. Our mission at Captioning and Transcription Services is to create high quality, professional text versions of your audio/visual content. We strive to make the process as easy and efficient as possible. As a content creator or owner, it is your responsibility to provide these essential accommodations to your audience, and we’re excited to partner with you in making that happen! Ready to get started? Lean more about the services we offer... What’s the cost? Why captions? Besides providing equal access for the deaf and hard of hearing, captions and transcripts aid users in a number of ways. Captions and transcripts make your content SEARCHABLE, meaning search engines can find or “see” your audio/visual material through keywords. Students can read along with video material for better comprehension and retention. Language learning is also greatly enhanced. Ultimately, transcripts or captions can help your user find and engage with your material more easily, and more deeply. Why us? As a UT Austin entity, we can offer unique benefits: Our captioning and review team is made up of UT’s best undergraduate and graduate students. Our staff has domain experience and knowledge unique to UT Austin, UT System, and Austin in general. You will find this yields very accurate transcripts even with context-specific terminology. We adapt to your needs. Whether it be downloading and uploading files from a server, custom formatting of transcriptions and captions, or other customized workflows, we’ll make it work. We can scale as needed. No project is too big or small. Next: Services Captioning and Transcription Services Location: University of Texas at Austin UT Libraries Austin, Texas Mailing Address: (Interdepartmental Mail Only) PCL 1.128 Mail code: S5476 Email: lib-captions@utlists.utexas.edu Last updated on May 24, 2022, 1:25 pm Captioning and Transcription Services Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Services for Students with Disabilities UT Libraries Disability Resources UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022