Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown Card Search Menu Site Navigation Home Your Brown Card About Your Brown Card Caring for Your Card Lost or Stolen Card Replacement Card Terms and Conditions Brown Card Services Brown Bookstore Brown University Dining Services (BUDS) Building Access Laundry Services Libraries Print/Copy Services Snack & Beverage Vending Transportation Bear Bucks About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests Sponsored ID About the Sponsored ID Sponsored ID Request Process Sponsored ID Renewal/Termination Visiting Faculty and Inactive Students Contact Search Brown Card Sponsored ID Request Process Breadcrumb Home Sponsored ID Sub Navigation In This Section About the Sponsored ID Sponsored ID Request Process Sponsored ID Renewal/Termination Visiting Faculty and Inactive Students Sponsored ID Request Process Learn how to request a Sponsored ID. Please read: The Brown University Sponsored ID Policy Sponsored IDs may be requested by a designated Department Identity Administrator (DIA), usually the department chair or manager. Sponsored ID and DIA request instructions Sponsored ID requests usually take 2-4 business days to fulfill. The requestor will receive an email when the new Sponsored ID has been entered into the system. Once the email notification has been received, the recipient must visit the Brown Card Office to create their Sponsored ID. In order to obtain the Sponsored ID, the affiliate must provide positive proof of identification (state-issued ID, driver's license, or passport, etc.). Please be prepared to have your photo taken for the Sponsored ID. Eligibility To be eligible for a Sponsored ID, an individual must have an express need for access to services in support of the University’s mission. Responsibilities All individuals to whom this policy applies are responsible for becoming familiar with and following this policy. University supervisors are responsible for promoting the understanding of this policy and for taking appropriate steps to help ensure compliance with it. Sponsored ID Holder: Provide adequate identification information including: First and last name, address, personal email address, date of birth, and phone number. Identify to the Sponsor if there is a previous relationship with the University. Agree to all applicable University policies, procedures, and rules. Sponsor: Supply required identifying information for the Sponsored ID Candidate to the DIA as well as information about any prior relationships to the University. Request only those services which are required for the Sponsored ID Candidate’s support of the University’s mission. Accept responsibility for the Sponsored ID Holder’s use of University services. Notify the DIA at the time of Sponsored ID renewal to affirm that the Sponsored ID Holder should be renewed or have services terminated. Notify the DIA immediately if the Sponsored ID Holder no longer requires previously requested services for the support of the University’s mission and reclaim the Brown ID card when one has been issued to the Sponsored ID Holder. Departmental Identity Administrator (DIA): Provide complete and accurate information regarding each Sponsored ID request. Process terminations, extensions and service modifications promptly. When a Sponsor of a Sponsored ID Holder terminates employment with the University, promptly name a new Sponsor for the Sponsored ID. Promptly respond to annual renewal requests. Successfully complete annual certification and training process. Brown Card Office: Review and process Sponsored ID requests. Perform matching analysis to avoid generation of duplicate identities. Process terminations. Office of Information Technology: When a DIA leaves the University, promptly remove the DIA’s access to the Sponsored ID request form and assign all active requests for the department to another assigned DIA. Perform quarterly audits of Sponsored ID Holders and Sponsors to identify any anomalies including, but not limited to, invalid expiration dates duplicate identity records and ineligible Sponsors. Perform annual certification and training process for DIAs. Service Owners: Evaluate service requests and approve or deny requests promptly. Honor licensing agreements when granting services. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Your Brown Card About Your Brown Card Caring for Your Card Lost or Stolen Card Replacement Card Terms and Conditions Brown Card Services Brown Bookstore Brown University Dining Services (BUDS) Building Access Laundry Services Libraries Print/Copy Services Snack & Beverage Vending Transportation Bear Bucks About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests Sponsored ID About the Sponsored ID Sponsored ID Request Process Sponsored ID Renewal/Termination Visiting Faculty and Inactive Students Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Sponsored ID Request Process Open details for Sponsored ID Request Process Bookmark this Page