Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown Card Search Menu Site Navigation Home Your Brown Card About Your Brown Card Caring for Your Card Lost or Stolen Card Replacement Card Terms and Conditions Brown Card Services Brown Bookstore Brown University Dining Services (BUDS) Building Access Laundry Services Libraries Print/Copy Services Snack & Beverage Vending Transportation Bear Bucks About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests Sponsored ID About the Sponsored ID Sponsored ID Request Process Sponsored ID Renewal/Termination Visiting Faculty and Inactive Students Contact Search Brown Card Replacement Card Breadcrumb Home Your Brown Card Sub Navigation In This Section About Your Brown Card Caring for Your Card Lost or Stolen Card Replacement Card Terms and Conditions Replacement Card Your Brown Card can be replaced if lost, stolen, malfunctioning, or worn out. How to Obtain a New Card Cardholders may visit the Brown Card Office during regular business hours (8:30 am - 5:00 pm) to obtain a replacement card. In order to obtain a new card, the cardholder must provide positive proof of identification (state-issued ID, driver's license, or passport, etc.). Card Replacement Fee The replacement fee for a lost card or a card deliberately or negligently damaged, is $20.00 per instance. The Brown Card Office accepts cash, check, Visa, MasterCard, Discover, AMEX, or Bear Bucks to pay for a new Brown Card. Students may also apply this fee to their student account. It is the responsibility of the cardholder to pay for their own replacement ID card. Brown University is not responsible for lost ID card fees and will not reimburse cardholders for such instances. Once a replacement Brown Card has been issued, and the previous card is subsequently located, there will be no refund issued by the Brown Card Office. Malfunctioning or Worn Out Cards If a Brown Card is malfunctioning or is worn out, it should be reported to the Brown Card Office during regular business hours. Cardholders with malfunctioning, worn out, or accidentally damaged Brown Cards will receive a replacement card, free of charge. During non-business hours, cardholders may also report the card to Brown Public Safety and receive a temporary dorm access card to utilize until the next business day. Reactivate a Found Card If you find a Brown Card that you recently reported missing and it has not yet been replaced, you can contact the Brown Card Office for reactivation, free of charge. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Your Brown Card About Your Brown Card Caring for Your Card Lost or Stolen Card Replacement Card Terms and Conditions Brown Card Services Brown Bookstore Brown University Dining Services (BUDS) Building Access Laundry Services Libraries Print/Copy Services Snack & Beverage Vending Transportation Bear Bucks About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests Sponsored ID About the Sponsored ID Sponsored ID Request Process Sponsored ID Renewal/Termination Visiting Faculty and Inactive Students Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Replacement Card Open details for Replacement Card Bookmark this Page