Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown Card Search Menu Site Navigation Home Your Brown Card About Your Brown Card Caring for Your Card Lost or Stolen Card Replacement Card Terms and Conditions Brown Card Services Brown Bookstore Brown University Dining Services (BUDS) Building Access Laundry Services Libraries Print/Copy Services Snack & Beverage Vending Transportation Bear Bucks About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests Sponsored ID About the Sponsored ID Sponsored ID Request Process Sponsored ID Renewal/Termination Visiting Faculty and Inactive Students Contact Search Brown Card GET Breadcrumb Home Bear Bucks Sub Navigation In This Section About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests GET GET is a secure service providing students and employees with online Bear Bucks account management capabilities. GET provides valuable information about account balances and spending history, and enables you to report a lost or stolen card at any time. The GET portal is available on both desktop and mobile web browsers. The GET Portal Add Funds Add funds to your Bear Bucks account using a credit/debit card. The minimum deposit is $10. The maximum balance would be $7500. A family member or other designee can also add funds to your Bear Bucks account using the GET portal. The user's Brown ID number and date of birth are required to add funds. View Accounts View linked accounts, such as Bear Bucks, meal plans, and printing. Account balances can be displayed in real-time. Check Transaction History View transaction histories for up to the past six months. The information displayed for each transaction includes date and time, location, account, type of transaction, and transaction amount. Report Lost or Stolen Cards Log onto GET to report a lost card, immediately removing all spending privileges from the card. Order Food Order ‘Grab and Go’ food and beverages from select dining locations on campus through the GET mobile app or portal. Install the GET Mobile app from the App Store or Google Play. Step by step instructions are available for ordering from the portal and ordering from the mobile app. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Your Brown Card About Your Brown Card Caring for Your Card Lost or Stolen Card Replacement Card Terms and Conditions Brown Card Services Brown Bookstore Brown University Dining Services (BUDS) Building Access Laundry Services Libraries Print/Copy Services Snack & Beverage Vending Transportation Bear Bucks About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests Sponsored ID About the Sponsored ID Sponsored ID Request Process Sponsored ID Renewal/Termination Visiting Faculty and Inactive Students Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search GET Open details for GET Bookmark this Page