Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Students: Looking for advising? We’re here to help you find opportunities that are a good fit for you! Schedule an appointment with an advisor—virtual or in person.Email us Stanford Cardinal Service Log In Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Service Opportunities Programs Cardinal Quarter Cardinal Courses Cardinal Commitment Cardinal Careers Resources Advising Undergraduates Graduate Students Faculty / Instructors Community Partners Campus Partners Student Organization Leaders Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Events Stories About Our Impact Cultivating Civic Identity Contact Us Explore Cardinal Service Opportunities Main content start Explore opportunities in Arts & Media Education & Youth Development Environmental Sustainability Cardinal Service is a university-wide effort to connect Stanford students with opportunities to serve locally, nationally, and around the world. Learn more about our work Resources for Faculty & Instructors Find information and resources to apply your scholarship and expertise to teaching a Cardinal Course. Learn more Campus Partners Work with students who are making a long-term or full-time commitment to service. Learn more Community Partners Partner with Stanford to offer research, internship, or volunteer opportunities for students. Learn how to get involved Alumni & Supporters See how Cardinal Service is making a difference and support public service at Stanford. Learn about our impact What is Cardinal Service? This short video explains. Featured programs Cardinal Quarter Stanford in Government Fellowships Learn more Cardinal Courses Second-Year Spanish: Emphasis on Service Learning Learn more Cardinal Commitment United Students for Veterans' Health Learn more Cardinal Careers Tom Ford Fellowship in Philanthropy Read story Explore all opportunities First Year Students: Be a Frosh Service Liaison Frosh Service Liaisons connect their classmates to service opportunities and spread the word about Cardinal Service. Learn more Subscribe to the Cardinal Service Digest Email Address Back to Top Stanford Cardinal Service Web Login Address Haas Center for Public Service at Stanford University 562 Salvatierra Walk Stanford, CA 94305 United States Campus Map Contact Us Report a website problem Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Information for Undergraduates Graduate students Faculty / Instructors Community Partners Campus Partners Student Organization Leaders Links to Glossary Resource library Donate Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.