Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown Card Search Menu Site Navigation Home Your Brown Card About Your Brown Card Caring for Your Card Lost or Stolen Card Replacement Card Terms and Conditions Brown Card Services Brown Bookstore Brown University Dining Services (BUDS) Building Access Laundry Services Libraries Print/Copy Services Snack & Beverage Vending Transportation Bear Bucks About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests Sponsored ID About the Sponsored ID Sponsored ID Request Process Sponsored ID Renewal/Termination Visiting Faculty and Inactive Students Contact Search Brown Card Adding Bear Bucks Breadcrumb Home Bear Bucks Sub Navigation In This Section About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests Adding Bear Bucks Brown cardholders may add Bear Bucks to their account using the GET Portal, a campus ValuePort III machine, or by mailing or hand-delivering a deposit to the Cashier's Office. Bear Bucks are available as soon as you complete your transaction and do not expire while you are affiliated with the University. Careful consideration should be given to expected usage in order to determine the appropriate amount to maintain in the account. The maximum amount that may be maintained in the Bear Bucks account is $7,500. GET Portal GET is an online portal that allows users to add Bear Bucks and provides the cardholder account balances and spending history. It also enables the cardholder to report a lost or stolen card at any time which will disable access to the account. The GET Portal ValuePort III Machines ValuePort III machines are conveniently located at the Rockefeller Library, Sciences Library, Sharpe Refectory lower level, Josiah's, Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, Brown Bookstore Lobby, Emery Woolley Hall and at 222 Richmond Street. ValuePort III machines provide Brown cardholders a convenient point of service to: Deposit funds to their Bear Bucks Account by inserting cash into the Value Port III machine. ValuePort III machines accept the following US Currency: $1, $5, $10 and $20 bills. Check their Bear Bucks available balance. Map of ValuePort III machine locations Cashier's Office To mail in a deposit, complete a Bear Bucks Account Deposit Slip and mail it with a check made payable to Brown University for the intended amount to: Brown University, Cashier's Office, Box 1911, Providence, RI 02912. To deposit in-person visit the Cashier's Office in Page-Robinson Hall, 69 Brown Street - 2nd floor. Update: In-person deposits are currently unavailable due to the Covid-19 response. Bear Bucks Deposits with Payroll Deductions for Employees Employees may sign up for automatic payroll deduction into a Bear Bucks Account. To initiate and/or update a payroll deduction, send an e-mail to specialist_payroll@brown.edu. Please include your name, Brown ID #, or Workday ID # and the amount per paycheck you would like deducted. To stop a payroll deduction, please send an email to Brown-Card-Office@brown.edu. Refunds are only offered upon separation from Brown. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Your Brown Card About Your Brown Card Caring for Your Card Lost or Stolen Card Replacement Card Terms and Conditions Brown Card Services Brown Bookstore Brown University Dining Services (BUDS) Building Access Laundry Services Libraries Print/Copy Services Snack & Beverage Vending Transportation Bear Bucks About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests Sponsored ID About the Sponsored ID Sponsored ID Request Process Sponsored ID Renewal/Termination Visiting Faculty and Inactive Students Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Adding Bear Bucks Open details for Adding Bear Bucks Bookmark this Page