Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown Card Search Menu Site Navigation Home Your Brown Card About Your Brown Card Caring for Your Card Lost or Stolen Card Replacement Card Terms and Conditions Brown Card Services Brown Bookstore Brown University Dining Services (BUDS) Building Access Laundry Services Libraries Print/Copy Services Snack & Beverage Vending Transportation Bear Bucks About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests Sponsored ID About the Sponsored ID Sponsored ID Request Process Sponsored ID Renewal/Termination Visiting Faculty and Inactive Students Contact Search Brown Card About Bear Bucks Breadcrumb Home Bear Bucks Sub Navigation In This Section About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests About Bear Bucks The Bear Bucks Account is an optional University maintained debit account designed to provide a convenient and safe way to make purchases of goods and services on campus. The Bear Bucks Account functions much like any other bank debit account with two major differences: funds deposited into this account may only be used on campus. Opening a Bear Bucks Account A Bear Bucks Account is automatically available on every Brown Card. To activate you need to add funds. Using the Bear Bucks Account The Bear Bucks Account can be used to make purchases without cash at any Brown University location that accepts Bear Bucks as a form of payment. Terms and Conditions Bear Bucks account information is strictly confidential and may only be disclosed to the account holder. Bear Bucks cash withdrawals are prohibited. Bear Bucks account balance is not transferable. Bear Bucks balances remaining at the end of a semester will automatically be rolled over to the next semester. Refunds of Bear Bucks are only permitted upon graduation, withdrawal, or employment termination from the University. Any balance remaining in this account following graduation, separation, or withdrawal will be credited to the student account. The Card Office does not provide any refunds for the payment of ID replacements. Closing a Bear Bucks Account For Students: Any balance remaining in this account following graduation, separation or withdrawal will be credited to your student account. For Employees: Upon separation from the university please contact Bear-Bucks@brown.edu. Questions? Contact the Bear Bucks Help Line at (401) 863-2273 or Bear-Bucks@brown.edu Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Your Brown Card About Your Brown Card Caring for Your Card Lost or Stolen Card Replacement Card Terms and Conditions Brown Card Services Brown Bookstore Brown University Dining Services (BUDS) Building Access Laundry Services Libraries Print/Copy Services Snack & Beverage Vending Transportation Bear Bucks About Bear Bucks Adding Bear Bucks GET Bear Bucks Guests Sponsored ID About the Sponsored ID Sponsored ID Request Process Sponsored ID Renewal/Termination Visiting Faculty and Inactive Students Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Bear Bucks Open details for About Bear Bucks Bookmark this Page