Skip to content CardinalRecovery MENUMENU Home General Guidance COVID-19 Hygiene Best Practices Current County and State Guidance COVID-19 Prevention Plan Summary COVID-19 Safety Plan for In-Person Summer Programs Departmental Management/HR Guidance Event Guidance Instructional Activities Music Related Recommendations Positive Case Response Procedures Principles and Stages of Recovery Risk Matrix Health Tools Health Check Tool Mental Health + Wellbeing Building Management Building Manager Toolkit Classrooms and Lecture Halls Healthy Buildings FAQ Service Vendor Expectations Researchers PI Frequently Asked Questions Research Recovery COVID-19 Hygiene Best Practices “COVID-19 Hygiene Best Practices” is a 10-minute training course that covers critical health and safety information regarding COVID-19 best practices, including but not limited to social distancing, self-care, and workspace cleaning. Completion of the training is required for all faculty, staff, postdocs, and students employed by the university or conducting research or other academic work on-site in university buildings and/or laboratories. Completion of this training does not mean you are cleared to return onsite. Work with your supervisor on your individual restart plan. Currently, undergraduates who are not employed by the university are not required to take the course Register for the course in the Stanford Training and Registration System (STARS Course Code EHS-2470-WEB) as soon as practicable, and notify your supervisor of completion (Note: Chrome works best with the STARS system). Supervisors MUST verify completion for all staff. Employees will be paid for their time to complete the training. Non-exempt (overtime eligible) employees should complete the training during their regularly scheduled work hours. For questions, please contact Heather Perry in EH&S at hperry@stanford.edu or (650) 723-1308. After you’ve completed the training you can download the COVID-19 Training Summary Sheet. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.