Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Welcome Center Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Virtual Onboarding Key Actions to Take Virtual Sessions: Join in! Recorded Presentations Resources Contact Us Welcome to Stanford! Thank you for joining our team! We are united in our mission to solve real-world problems for a better tomorrow. Main content start We’re glad you’ve joined our community! Our Welcome Center has gone virtual! First, review the key actions you’ll need to complete. Then, within your first several weeks, we hope you'll join our live sessions, where you’ll gain insights about our community and meet other new colleagues. If you need general guidance or specific help at any time, contact us: welcome-to-stanford@stanford.edu. Virtual onboarding Get information on the live onboarding sessions and the key actions to get started. Recorded presentations are also available to help you learn about the many services and programs to support your experience at Stanford. Get Information Resources Review compliance documents and use the links to view additional resources useful to your onboarding. View resources Manager tools for onboarding Your role in your new hire's onboarding is critical; refer to these resources to set your new hire up for success. Get an overview Stanford Welcome Center Web Login Address Welcome Center 505 Broadway, Cardinal Hall, 5th Floor Redwood City, CA 94063 United States Visit Campus Map LinkedIn Youtube Links to Cardinal at Work Administrative Guide Stanford Careers Stanford Today Resources for Managers New Hires Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top