Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Labor and Employee Relations Forms You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Labor and Employee Relations Labor and Employee Relations Forms About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Forms Access Forms are accessible via the University Forms channel under the Staff Tools tab in TUportal. Using the search function, you can search by form name, office, department, school/college and/or category. Completed forms should be returned via the HR Documents Upload For Employees channel in TUportal. Log in and navigate to TUportal > Staff Tools tab > HR Documents Upload For Employees channel. Contents Request for Disability AccommodationADA CertificationDiscriplinary ReportExit InterviewTermination ChecklistGrievance FormContact Us Request for Disability Accommodation The purpose of this form is to assist the university in determining the extent a reasonable accommodation can be made for an employee with a disability to perform one or more essential functions of their job effectively. The request is treated confidentially. Return the completed form to our office. ADA Certification Temple University is an equal opportunity employer and as such we provide a variety of job accommodation(s). The ADA Certification form is used to document the necessary information needed to determine what accommodation, if any, that can be made for an employee. Since each accommodation is unique, requests are handled on an individual basis. Return the completed form to our office. Disciplinary Report A disciplinary report documents discipline issued to a union employee for failing to meet expected standards of performance or conduct. The form specifies which section(s) of the Rules of Conduct were violated and documents the level and date of action. The form is signed by the supervisor, employee and the employee’s union representative (if applicable). General and verbal counselings, for A Level attendance violations, are not discipline but are documented on the form. A copy is maintained by the supervisor/department. Discipline issued for written warning and above are documented on the form, and a copy of the form is provided to our office for placement in the employee’s official personnel file. Discipline issued to nonunion employees should be documented on a memo to the employee. A copy of the memo is provided to the employee and to our office for placement in the employee’s official personnel file. Exit Interview Help us make Temple University a better place to work by completing an exit interview questionnaire. Your honest and open responses are important to us. The information from the questionnaire is confidentially reviewed within our office and will not be entered into your personnel file. The information you provide will serve to assist us in developing policies and practices that reflect the needs of our employees. Your responses will not affect future references or prospects for reemployment. Termination Checklist The process of terminating an employee can be cumbersome. To help managers and administrators through this process, the termination checklist is an itemized outline of what is required of management when going to the process of employment separation. Return the completed form to our office. Grievance Form A grievance is a dispute concerning the interpretation/application of the collective bargaining agreement and is filed by the union on behalf of one or more employees. The Grievance Form documents the nature of the grievance, alleged violations of the collective bargaining agreement and the remedy sought to resolve the grievance. Depending on the step in the grievance process, the form can be signed by the union representative, employee and management official. The completed form is returned to our office to initiate the grievance process. Contact Us For questions regarding Labor and Employee Relations forms, call 215-926-2290 or email elrel@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.