Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Flexible Spending Accounts You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Benefits Administration Additional Benefit Options Flexible Spending Accounts About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links A Flexible Spending Account allows you to contribute money, on a pre-tax basis, to pay for eligible health care, dependent care, and commuter/transportation expenses. You do not pay federal income tax or social security tax on these contributions. All regular, full-time employees, and faculty members are eligible to participate in the program. Contents How the FSA worksHealth Care AccountDependent Care AccountCommuter TransportationTo EnrollContact Us How the Flexible Spending Account works You designate an amount to be deducted, pre-tax, in equal installments from your paycheck. You cannot change your contribution amount or suspend your payroll deductions during the year unless you have a qualified change in family status, as defined by the Internal Revenue Service. This type of plan is considered by the IRS to be a "use it or lose it" plan. This means that if you do not use the full amount that you elected, then you will forfeit the remaining balance. As a result of The Consolidated Appropriation Act, 2021 there are a few temporary provisions to the plan for 2021 and 2022. The Consolidated Appropriation Act, 2021 Also known as the COVID Relief Bill, the act allows the carryover of unused funds from plan year 2021 Flexible Spending Health Care Account (FSA) and the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account (DCFSA) into plan year 2022. The deadline to incur and submit eligible expense for the 2021 plan year is December 31, 2021. Claims for reimbursement of expenses may be submitted through March 31, 2022. Any unused funds will be carried over into the 2022 plan year and may be used through December 31, 2022. Mid-Year Elections Changes Mid-Year election changes allowed without a qualifying event on a prospective as a result of the Consolidated Appropriation Act, 2021 ends December 31, 2021. Unused Balance In accordance with federal tax law, any unused account balances at the end of the 2022 plan year will be forfeited if not used for qualified expenses. The University is not permitted to refund it to you. Health Care Account Summary Health care expenses can include those incurred by yourself, your spouse, domestic partner, or any dependent that you claim on your income tax return. You will receive a Health Care Card that will draw from these funds. Some examples of qualified expenses are as follows: Deductibles and co-payments for healthcare plans (medical, dental and vision) Co-payments for prescription drugs Amounts over usual and customary plan limits Purchase of prescription sunglasses, contact lenses and cleaning solutions Note The maximum annual contribution qualifying for pre-tax reimbursement is $2,850 per employee for the 2022 plan year. Dependent Care Account Summary Eligible expenses are only those expenses that you incur because you work, and are expenses for services received during the calendar year in which you are participating. If you are a two-parent family, both parents must be working in order to qualify for the Plan. Eligible dependents are defined as: Children under the age of 13 Older, disabled dependents whom you can claim in your income tax return Note The maximum annual contribution qualifying for pre-tax reimbursement is $5,000 per family. Commuter Transportation Summary Now is a great time to think green, leave the car at home, and make the switch to public transportation. Under the current regulations, the monthly limits for pre-tax free commuter benefits are: Transit - The pre-tax spending limit for transit and vanpools is $280 per month for 2022. Parking - The pre-tax spending for qualified parking is $280 per month for 2022. Place your order based on how you currently get to work (regional rail, bus or subway) and HealthEquity|WageWorks will fulfill your order by mailing you a pass or recharging your commuter card just prior to the beginning of the month. The portion of your cost that is deducted pre-tax reduces the amount of earnings on which you have to pay taxes (this is how you save). If you choose the "Every Month" frequency, you will automatically get the same order each month until you change it, cancel it, or become ineligible for the program. Note There is no open enrollment period for the commuter benefits program and you can enroll or cancel your enrollment at any time. Temple University also allows employees to pay monthly parking costs in any of the Temple lots on a pre-tax basis. Please visit the Parking Services for more information. To Enroll For additional plan details, easy-to-use calculators, and enrollment instruction, go to HomeEquity|WageWorks. Inquiries about how the program works should be directed to HealthEquity|WageWorks. Current Employees Open enrollment is during the months of November and December for the following calendar year. You must re-enroll each year to continue or change your participation in an FSA account. New Hires You have 31 days from the date of hire to enroll on-line for the current calendar year. Note Open Enrollment only applies to enrollment in Health Care and Dependent Care accounts. Contact Us For questions regarding Flexible Spending Accounts, call (215) 926-2270 or email benefits@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.