Skip to Main Content For coronavirus information for the UCLA community, please visit the Ashe Center website and UCLA’s information page. Contact About HANDSHAKE Search WebsiteSearch Search WebsiteSearch Facts & Figures Events Undergraduate Graduate Alumni Faculty & Staff Employers Contact About HANDSHAKE Your Career Starts Here Here to help. Career Resources for COVID-19. Everyone's journey is different. We're here to help you on your journey. No matter where you are in your journey, the Career Center has the tools and resources to help! From career exploration to skill development, our dedicated staff works with you to help you discover your professional strengths as you prepare for graduate school or full-time employment. Log in to Handshake today to get connected with career counseling, internships, and job opportunities. Featured Resources First Destination Survey The First Destination Survey (FDS) is designed specifically to help us learn more about the experiences and aspirations of our recent UCLA graduates. The responses we collect help future Bruins prepare for their career and post-graduation goals. This effort is focused on reporting the actual post-graduation status of all UCLA undergraduates, sent to all graduating students at the end of each quarter. We ask graduating students to share with us whether their career or graduate school plans are firmly in place or still a work-in-progress. Take The Survey Access Career Workshops On Demand Access 50+ career development workshops, panels, and discussions from anywhere in the world. Visit our YouTube channel to discover content designed to help you advance your career journey. Visit Our Virtual Front Desk Our front desk is now virtual. Students, employers, alumni, and staff can connect with us Monday through Friday from 9am to 5pm to get answers to questions about all things career-related. Get Resume Feedback Online, 24/7 Need assistance with your resume? VMock is a 24/7 online resume review tool available for all UCLA students. It provides instant personalized feedback on your resume based on criteria gathered from employers and UCLA community standards. Alumni and Undergraduates Our Bruins Are Going Places UCLA graduates enter the world prepared to take on the impossible. Equipped with experience, curiosity and optimism, they make an impact wherever they go. Learn More About Our Graduates Find Answers to Your Career Questions Looking for help finding an internship or preparing for a job interview? Get connected to the resources and services that will prepare you for what’s next. Explore Undergraduate Resources Meet Industry Professionals Events and Workshops Throughout the year, the Career Center hosts numerous programs specifically designed to help students take that next step forward in their journey. We invite industry professionals to talk, network and engage with students as they go above and beyond to reach their career goals. Explore All Events Employers Connect with the Best and the Brightest The UCLA Career Center is passionate about providing meaningful connections for students and employers. Our team offers services and resources to help UCLA students, UC graduates and employers reach their goals. Learn More About Recruiting at UCLA Resources For Undergraduate Students For Graduate Students For Alumni For Employers For Faculty & Staff Visit the Career Center Monday - Friday, 9am-5pm 501 Westwood Plaza, Strathmore Building Los Angeles, CA 90095-1573 (310) 206-1915 Contact Us Stay in the know Facebook @UCLACareerCenter Twitter @careerctrucla LinkedIn @ucla-career-center Instagram @uclacareercenter \n Accessibility \n UCLA \n Student Affairs \n Maps, Directions, Parking \n Academic Calendar \n University of California \n Terms of Use \n