Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Job Search Prep Professional Image How do you want others in the professional world to view you? This is an important question to consider, especially when you're job searching. Being seen as a professional, responsible person can open up opportunities and improve your chances of getting hired. First impressions Introductions: Always explain who people are and use their full names. Handshakes: Make a "V" with your thumb and forefinger. Then extend your right arm across your body and pump about 2 times. Make sure your grip isn't too hard or too weak. Name tags: Wear your name tag on the right side of your front shoulder area. If your name tag is on a cord, make sure it's in the middle of your chest. It should be easy for people to see your name. * Did you know current students can order business cards featuring the University of Kansas or Jayhawk logos through the University Career Center? These can be helpful to hand out in networking and other professional events, especially when you're job and internship searching. Professional communication Socializing vs. gossiping: Be friendly and polite to everyone, and volunteer to help out when you can. It's okay to have appropriate fun, but don't forget to communicate regularly and effectively. Stay away from cliques. Phone communication: Take notes during phone conversations to help you remember key points. Avoid talking on your cell phone in public. You should return messages within 24 hours when possible, and be aware of the rules about personal calls at your organization. Email communication: Know your work's policy regarding personal emails. When writing professional emails, double-check your grammar and punctuation. Remember: tone is difficult to understand in emails, so be thoughtful about your word choices. Professional Attire Business professional tips: Wear a dark-colored conservative suit, generally in black, brown, navy, or gray. Solid colors or subtle patterns (e.g. pinstripes) look best. Pair your suit with a complementary conservative, long-sleeved collared shirt or blouse, belt, and shoes. Make sure your socks, shoes, and belt match your suit. Avoid jewelry except for possibly a watch and a wedding or fraternity ring. Make sure your hair and face are clean cut and any makeup is minimal. Need business professional attire for an upcoming interview or event? Visit the P.H.O.G. Clothing Closet for free items of clothing. Choose from a variety of styles and sizes of suits, separates, shirts, accessories, and more to make a positive first impression. Business casual tips: Stay away from anything low-cut, tight, or revealing. Avoid jeans, t-shirts, and sweats, and use an iron when needed. Find out the dress code of the organization, and think conservative; however, you can usually be more trendy than you can with business professional attire. Featured Resources Student Business Cards Professional Clothing Closet (P.H.O.G.) Networking Tips Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.