Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Payroll and Tax Forms You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Payroll Management Taxes and Deductions Payroll and Tax Forms About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Payroll and tax forms are used to report income; calculate taxes to be paid to the federal, state and local governments; and to disclose other information as required by the appropriate governing agencies. Tax forms are the official government documents you are required to complete. Some state and local municipalities may require additional tax forms to be completed for their tax entity. Typical Tax Forms The typical tax forms completed by employees include, but are not limited to the following. Form W-4: Employee’s Withholding Allowance Certificate This form is completed to let us know the correct federal income tax to deduct from your pay and send to the IRS. We strongly recommend that you consult with your accountant, financial advisor or tax expert if you require additional assistance completing the form. This form is filled when you are first hired to Temple University, or when a change occurs to your personal or financial situation. Refer to the IRS for additional information. Residency Certification (PA Act 32 Certification): Local Earned Income Tax Withholding This formed is completed during the new employee onboarding process, or when you change your name, home address and/or work location. The certification is used to calculate the correct local earned income taxes to deduct from your pay, and send to the appropriate governing agency. The calculation is based on the information you submit which is used to determine and verify the location of your residence and workplace, and the total resident earned income tax rate. Refer to the PA Department of Community and Economic Development for additional information. You may also want to refer to your state/local government agencies for information about your residency application. To complete the certification, log in to TUportal > Staff Tools tab > Pay and Tax Information channel. Form REV-419: Employee’s Nonwithholding Application Certificate This form is completed to let us know not to deduct Pennsylvania personal income tax. It should be completed when you are first hired to Temple University, or when your location of residence changes to outside the state of Pennsylvania. For those seeking to file an exemption or forgiveness from PA personal income tax, refer to the PA Department of Revenue for information on Nonwithholding of State Income Tax. You may also want to refer to the PA Department of Revenue for additional information on personal income tax. New Jersey Form NJ-W4: Employee’s Withholding Allowance Certificate This form is completed to let us know the correct New Jersey state income tax to deduct from your pay and send to the appropriate government agency. This form is required to be completed by individuals who reside in the state of New Jersey. It should be filled and submitted to us when you are first hired and/or when there is a change in your personal and/or financial situation. Refer to the New Jersey Division of Taxation for additional information. Forms Access The forms are accessible via the University Forms channel under the Staff Tools tab. Using the search function, you can search by form name, office, department, school/college and/or category. Completed forms should be returned to us via the HR Documents Upload For Employees channel in TUportal. Log in and navigate to TUportal > Staff Tools tab > HR Documents Upload For Employees channel. Contact Us For questions regarding payroll and tax forms, call 215-926-2244 or email hrpayroll@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.