Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple Employee Relief Fund You are here Home HR Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links University's Vaccines Webpage COVID-19 Vaccination Requirement In accordance with the City of Philadelphia’s mandate, all Temple University students, faculty, staff, and contractors must be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 by November 15, 2021, unless they have a medical or religious exemption approved by the University. You will need to have either received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine or an approved exemption by October 15, 2021, to comply with this mandate. Individuals who do not have an exemption or do not receive their first dose by October 15 or, if required, their second dose by November 15, 2021, will be prohibited from working until proof of vaccination or an exemption is provided. For more information visit the University's Vaccines webpage, or speak with your HR contact. University's Vaccines Webpage University COVID-19 vaccination requirement Temple Employee Relief Fund Guidelines Temple Employee Relief Fund (the fund) is a program developed out of the desire of Temple and its employees to help other Temple employees most severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The program will continue indefinitely and is intended to serve those severely impacted by this and other future qualified disasters. Contents The FundGrantsEligibility and How to ApplyRequired InformationReview and Approval Process The Fund Temple University kicked off the Temple Employee Relief Fund with an initial cash contribution of $50,000. Temple employees may donate any amount to the fund through the dedicated webpage either on a one-time or an ongoing basis, via payroll deduction or another payment type at giving.temple.edu/EmployeeRelief. All donations are tax deductible, based on after-tax dollars. Only cash from an employee’s payroll may be donated; vacation time or other items of value may not be donated. Donations cannot be directed to a specific employee. Grants Grants will be awarded to those who demonstrate the need to cover expenses that are reasonable and necessary per IRC §139 and directly attributed to the COVID-19 pandemic, such as healthcare, travel, family care or other vital living expenses. Grants from the fund, not to exceed $1,000 per employee, will be awarded as reimbursements through payroll as a qualified disaster relief payment. Grant money distributed under this program will be excluded from wages and not subject to income and employment tax withholding under IRC §139. Grants are limited to no more than one award every six months. Grants will be considered on a rolling basis, based on the order in which applications are received. Grants may not be awarded for expenses that are reimbursable through other means, like insurance or other university programs. Eligibility and How to Apply All full-time Temple employees are eligible for the award of a Temple Employee Relief grant. In applying for the grant, the application should include as much information as possible concerning the reason for the request. Applications for the Temple Employee Relief Fund can be submitted via Table explaining the different ways to apply for the Temple Employee Relief Fund Complete the grant application form online via TUportal OR Drop off a completed printed Temple Employee Relief Fund application at the HR department on Main Campus. Required Information All applications for the Temple Employee Relief Fund grant must include the following information to be considered for an award. Name, TUid, title and department of applicant—this information will only be used to ensure contact with the individual on the review and processing of application. Only the committee chair will receive and retain this information. Statement of reasons for the request, including an explanation of the amount of unreimbursed actual or anticipated expenses. Grants may be awarded for legitimate, verifiable and quantifiable expenses. Receipts for expenses do not need to be submitted with this application, but you must keep copies of all receipts supporting the request in the event of an audit. Review and Approval Process All applications will be reviewed by a committee of representatives from the Department of Human Resources and the Offices of the Provost, Budget/Finance and University Counsel. All applicant names and other information will be kept confidential. Applicants will be notified typically within a week of receipt regarding the determination of the grant application. All applicant and application information will be kept confidential, shared only with the reviewing committee and others necessary for processing of grants. Contact Us If you have any question regarding the Temple Employee Relief Fund, send an email to TUrelief@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in HR Resources Our Functional Areas Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.