Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UCR Handshake Login Employers Students Alumni UC Riverside Career Center Connect • Inspire • Empower Search Home Employers Welcome Employers Post a Job Recruiting Policies Career Fairs Recruit at UCR Build your brand Internships Work-Study Program On Campus Employment Graduate Recruiters Alliance Partners Students Students Career Planning Making Career Decisions Exploring Options Staying on Track Preparing for Graduate & Professional Schools Gain Experience Work-Study Program Internships Undergraduate Research Community Service Work Abroad Getting Hired Finding Opportunities Resumes & Cover Letters Interviewing Building Connections Resource Hub Online Workshops and Resources UCR Handshake R'Professional Career Closet Avoid Scams & Fraud Graduate Students Communities Asian Pacific Students Black & African American Students Differently Abled Students Formerly Incarcerated Students Foster Youth International Students Latinx Students LGBTQ Students Middle Eastern Students Native American Students Student Veterans Undocumented Students Women Events All Events Career Fairs Employers on Campus Workshops Outcomes Campus Partners Faculty & Staff Career Center Speaker Request Career Center Room Rental Request Alumni Parents & Family About Us Contact Us Career Center Peer Advisors Values and Impact UCR Home UCR Handshake Login Employers Students Alumni Previous Next Breadcrumb Welcome to the Career Center UCR's Career Center is dedicated to Connect, Inspire and Empower current students and alumni on their career paths. Stop by our state-of-the-art center to learn more about what it takes to become a successful professional in the workplace. Schedule an appointment with one of our career specialists for career guidance, resume reviews and interview prep. Log in to UCR Handshake or visit a career fair to find internships, part-time and full-time positions. Spring 2022 Updates Due to the most updated campus announcement, Career Center services - including Express Career Advising, one-on-one appointments, and workshops will all be offered virtually until Jan. 28th. Express Career Advising & Appointments For same day, 15-minute in-person Express Career Advising, stop by the Career Center (located in the Career Center Plaza across from Skye Hall and UNLH). For online Express Career Advising, view our schedule below and sign up by clicking on "Virtual - Sign up Here" to get started. For full career counseling appointments, login to Handshake , call (951) 827-3631, or stop by to schedule. Virtual appointments will continue to be available and in-person appointments can be scheduled beginning September 13th on select days. If your Express Career Advising session or appointment is Virtual, a Zoom link will be sent to your UCR student e-mail address before the start of your meeting. In person Express Career Advising and appointments will take place at the Career Center. Please note that they will be held outdoors or in spaces that will allow for physical distancing. In alignment with campus policy, mask wearing will be required indoors, regardless of vaccination status. Unvaccinated individuals must continue to wear a mask at all times. Workshops Workshops will be offered fully online at the start of the quarter with some hybrid options available at the end of the quarter. If you have any questions, please e-mail us, call (951) 827-3631, or stop by the Career Center beginning September 1st! Express Career Advising Schedule 5/30-6/3 Time Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 10-11am Holiday, Campus is Closed Vanessa Lee, Career Specialist, Graduate & International Students Virtual Only, Sign-up Here Peer Advisor In-person, Sign up at Career Center 11am-12pm Peer Advisor In-person, Sign up at Career Center Peer Advisor In-person, Sign up at Career Center Peer Advisor In-person, Sign up at Career Center Peer Advisor In-person, Sign up at Career Center 12-1pm 1-2pm 2-3pm Peer Advisor In-person, Sign up at Career Center Peer Advisor In-person, Sign up at Career Center Peer Advisor In-person, Sign up at Career Center Quicklinks Employers Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents & Family Express Career Advising Employers: Click to Log into Your Handshake Account Students & Alumni: Click to Log into Handshake via CAS or (netid)@ucr.edu Account Featured Events See Events Calendar Create a Resume Draft a professional looking resume or cover letter in just a few short minutes. Several different resume styles and examples are available online. Read more Find the Right Job Learn all about the search process from our Career experts, including building a network, accessing online resources and what to expect from an employment agency. Read more Make an Appointment Go online to make an appointment or sign-up for a daily Express Career Advising appointment for career guidance. Read more Attend a Career Fair Fairs include accounting, engineering, graduate and professional schools, teaching and law. Visit our Fairs page for locations and dates. Read more Schedule an Interview Graduating students are invited to meet virtually with prospective employers for full-time career positions, including finance, sales, engineering and technology. Read more Access Online Services A virtual version of some of our services jam-packed with the kinds of helpful resources needed to find a job or investigate your potential careers. Read more Special Thanks to our Alliance Partners! Previous Slide◀︎Next Slide▶︎ Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Career Center Career Center Plaza Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3631 fax: (951) 827-2447 email: careercounseling@ucr.edu alt email: careerrecruiting@ucr.edu Find Us Follow US: Related Links AGSM MBA Career Services Financial Aid Student Affairs Human Resources Disclaimer: This information is accurate and reliable at time of posting, but may change without notice. Please contact the department for the most up-to-date information. Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel