Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Jobs & Internships Peace Corps Life is Calling. How far will you go? If you are interested in the Peace Corps, make sure to talk to a Peace Corps recruiter early. The best way to do this is by visiting Connect with a Peace Corps Recruiter. A recruiter can talk to you about your sector and region of interest, experience, and how to tailor your resume for the opportunity that is best for you! You may also find information on Peace Corps benefits and graduate school assistance helpful. View all open Peace Corps opportunities. Application Process The Peace Corps application process is lengthy. Plan ahead and submit your application roughly a year before your availability date. These are the general steps in the application process: Apply: Submit an application to the Dallas Regional Office Interview: A recruiter will interview you by phone or in person. Together you will explore issues such as adaptability, cultural awareness, motivation, and commitment. The recruiter will assess your skills and look for overseas programs that match. You will be nominated to a specific program in a general region of the world with a tentative departure date if the recruiter determines that you are qualified and that Peace Corps is right for you. Legal Clearance: The Peace Corps requires a complete background check from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. You may be cleared, deferred, or disqualified. Medical/Dental Clearance: A medical officer will review your health status forms and you will be required to submit to complete physical and dental exams. At this point you may be cleared, deferred, limited to certain regions, or disqualified. Invitation to Serve: Your Peace Corps placement officer in Washington, D.C., will make the final match between the a specific country's request for volunteers and your personal skills and qualifications. Pre-service Training: If you accept the invitation, you will receive information about your host country and reporting instructions with the date and location of your pre-departure orientation. Preparing It's never too early to prepare for Peace Corps service. Following are some tips on what to do as a college student: Attend a Peace Corps Event: Go to a general information meeting. there you will learn the basics about the Peace Corps mission and its programs overseas. See the calendar of events or go to the Peace Corps website for a complete listing of recruiting events. Study a foreign language: The ability to learn a new language is an important ingredient in a successful Peace Corps experience. Many volunteer assignments require at least one-year of college level French or Spanish. Visit KU's School of Languages for more information. Volunteer in your community: Getting involved in the KU or Lawrence community will help you gain the organizational and leadership skills that you'll need as a Peace Corps volunteer. If you are not sure how to get started, visit the Center for Community Outreach. Read about the Peace Corps: While no two volunteers have the same experience, reading volunteer stories can give you insight into the volunteer experience. Check out the book list on the Peace Corps website. Or, for a more updated list of books, contact your campus representative. Talk to returned Peace Corps volunteers: Returned Peace Corps volunteers (RPCV's) can be found at a Peace Corps event or by contacting the local RPCV group. Additional Resources Helpful Websites Click to expand Peace Corps Writers The Peace Gallery Third Goal: Peace Corps Stories Peace Corps Online National Peace Corps Association Friends of Afghanistan Friends of the Baltics Friends of Belize Friends of Benin Friends of Bolivia and Peru Friends of Bulgaria Friends of Burkina Faso Friends of Cameroon Friends of Columbia Friends of the Eastern Caribbean Friends of Ecuador Friends of El Salvador Friends of Ethiopia Friends of Fiji Friends of Ghana Friends of Guatemala Friends of Guinea Friends and RPCVs of Guyana Friends of India Friends of Jamaica Friends of Jordan Friends of Kenya Friends of Korea Friends of Kyrgyzstan Friends of Lesotho Friends of Liberia Friends of Macedonia Friends of Malawi Friends of Malaysia Friends of Mongolia Friends of Morocco Friends of Nepal Friends of Niger Friends of Nigeria Peace Corps Panama Friends Friends of Paraguay Amigos de Bolivia y Peru Peace Corps Alumni Foundation for Philippine Development Friends of Sierra Leone Friends of Swaziland Friends of Tanzania Friends of Thailand Friends of Togo Friends of Turkey Friends of Uganda Books about Peace Corps Click to expand Living Poor: A Peace Corps Chronicle by Moritz Thomsen Mango Elephants in the Sun: How Life in an African Village Let Me Be in My Skin by Susana Herrera So You Want to Join the Peace Corps: What to Know Before You Go by Dillon Banerjee My Other Life by Paul Theroux Nine Hills to Nabonkaha: Two Years in the Heart of an African Village by Sara Erdman Letters from Zaire: A Peace Corps Life in Africa by John Jochum The Princess and the Peace Corps by Lorene Hulskamp River Town: Two Years in the Yangtze by Peter Hessler From the Center of the Earth: Stories Out of the Peace Corps by Geraldine Kennedy Peace Corps: A Profile by Kirk Hackenburg The Village of Waiting by George Packer Taxi to Taskent: Two Years in the Peace Corps in Uzbekistan by Tom Flemming Agents of Change: A Close Look at the Peace Corps by David Hapgood and Meridan Bennett Come As You Are: The Peace Corps Story by Coates Redmon Going Up Country: Travel Essays by Peace Corps Writers edited by John Coyne A Moment in History: The First 10 Years of the Peace Corps by Brent Ashabranner The Peace Corps by Robert G. Carey, foreword by Joseph H. Blatchford At Home in the World: The Peace Corps Story by The Peace Corps First Comes Love, Then Comes Malaria: How a Peace Corps Posterboy Won my Heart and a Third World Adventure Changed my Life by Eve Brown-Waite The Bold Experiment: JFK's Peace Corps by Gerard T. Rice What You Can Do For Your Country: An Oral History of the Peace Corps by Karen Schwarz Peace Corps by Celeste A. Peters The Ponds of Kalambayi: An African Sojourn by Mike Tidwell Power Lines: Two Years on South Africa's Borders by Jason Carter; introduction by Jimmy Carter The Unheard: A Memoir of Deafness and Africa by Josh Swiller Unofficial Peace Corps Volunteer Handbook by Travis Hellstrom No Hurry in Africa: Life as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Kenya by Theresa Munanga Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.