Skip to Main Content Brown University Healthy Brown Brown Takes Care Search Menu Site Navigation Home Why I Care Why I Vaccinate Downloadable Resources Virtual Challenges & Activities Search Healthy Brown Brown Takes Care Brown Takes Care During this global pandemic, Brown Takes Care is a community effort that calls on each of us to embrace behaviors that support healthy ways of working, socializing and living. Add your voice. Brown Takes Care During this global pandemic, Brown Takes Care is a community effort that calls on each of us to embrace behaviors that support healthy ways of working, socializing and living. Add your voice. Brown is fortunate to have a strong community that believes deeply in caring for one another. From the earliest signs of COVID-19 on campus last spring, students, faculty and staff at Brown have joined together in countless ways that reflect our values of conscience and caring to keep Brown and the families in our surrounding communities healthy and safe. Based on these values, Brown Takes Care is a campus-wide prevention and education initiative coupled with a public health campaign to support the well-being of all those who work, study and live at Brown. Whether it's wearing a face covering on campus, maintaining 6 feet of distance while in line for food or mail, or getting vaccinated when eligible, we know that it will take each and every one of us exercising personal responsibility to confront COVID-19 and help Brown get to a place where we can be together safely in the months to come. Brown Takes Care is designed as an inclusive and iterative community effort that directly engages students, faculty and staff as storytellers and influencers to promote the health practices that are essential. It brings together social media, video, web communications, training modules, community activities, student activity kits, signage and more, as well as a range of flexible templates and digital assets that Brown community members can use to bring the campaign to their cultural and identity groups, schools and departments, student organizations and sports teams, and social groups. Downloadable resources are available for any Brown community member who wants to use their voice and join the effort Download Resources “Every action helps.” Maria Guerrero Martinez, Class of 2021, Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Every action that we do to prevent the spread of COVID-19 helps. Whether that's socially distancing from your friends, or wearing your mask or waiting a few months to hug your best friend — all of that helps stop the spread. All of that helps keep each other safe, and all of that helps Providence stay safe. “We have a duty.” Emmanuel Greenberg, Graduate student in public health, BWell Coordinator As students at Brown, we have a duty to the city of Providence and the residents here to help keep them safe as well. We come from all over the world, and it's important for us to keep in mind that we're going to be interacting with people outside of the campus. There are vulnerable people all over the City of Providence. “Why I wear a mask.” Alexis Jackson, Class of 2021, Public Health and Slavic Studies I wear a mask to protect the most marginalized in my community. What I care about are those who are disabled, those who are immunocompromised, children, the elderly. To respect CDC guidelines, to be responsible, to take care of myself, is the best way that I can help take care of others. Created by you and me Brown Takes Care is uniquely Brown, having been created by students and staff working in close collaboration to root it firmly in the University culture of care for one another. Brown Takes Care is designed to be easily adapted by on- and off-campus individuals and groups to evolve over time as new health guidance emerges. And it is a resource and a guide for amplifying best practices in individual ways that have meaning for each of us. Through the campaign, you are encouraged to share messages of prevention, tell your “Why I Care” and "Why I Vaccinate" stories, and reveal how you “Show Care by Doing” (wearing a mask, social distancing, cleaning, contact tracing, receiving the vaccine when eligible, etc.). The Brown Takes Care initiative is aligned and integrated with a holistic education and prevention effort across the University that includes: Brown’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy; Targeted online training modules for students, staff and faculty; A testing and tracing program; and A Student Commitment and Employee Acknowledgement that outline the responsibilities we have to ourselves and to one another to safeguard the well-being of our campus and our surrounding communities. Share messages of prevention Keeping ourselves and those around us healthy means following all the public health guidelines set forth by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the State of Rhode Island and Brown University. Visit the Why I Care page to find language and digital tools to help you promote healthy behaviors: Be vaccine ready. Wash your hands. Wear your mask. Make some space. Wipe it down. Stay in if you’re unwell. Live local. Get your test. Track your contacts. Respect Quiet Period. Protect your pod. Use your voice. In the era of COVID-19, it takes all of us working together to promote healthy behaviors for the sake of the people around us. We hope you’ll join the Brown Takes Care effort. Contact browntakescare@brown.edu with questions and ideas for promoting a healthy Brown. The Brown Takes Care prevention and education initiative is a critical component of the University’s plan for a safe and Healthy Brown. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Updates Prevention Testing & Tracing Academics Research Life on Campus Workforce FAQ Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Why I Care Why I Vaccinate Downloadable Resources Virtual Challenges & Activities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Takes Care Open details for Brown Takes Care Bookmark this Page