Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Careers At Georgia Tech, we work to be the technological university of the 21st century and look for individuals who can help make this vision a reality. Do you want a future where you can excel in your discipline, develop your talents, and be part of a team committed to excellence? We invite you to explore opportunities at Georgia Tech and join an institute with a legendary heritage and a limitless future. External Applicant Known Issue We are aware that some external applicants may receive the following error message when the job posting is still accepting applications: "We are sorry, the following job(s) you are applying for are no longer available. You can no longer continue with this application". If you receive this error message, please contact your recruiter or submit a ticket via ServiceNow. Internal Applicants Are you a Georgia Tech applicant seeking career opportunities? Log into OneUSG Connect Click the “Recruiting Self Service” tile Then, click the “Apply for Jobs” tile External Applicants Are you an individual seeking opportunities with Georgia Tech? Start Your Search Here Equal Employment Opportunity Georgia Tech is an equal opportunity employer and will not discriminate against any employee or applicant on the basis of race, ethnicity, ancestry, color, religion, sex, pregnancy (including childbirth, lactation, or related medical conditions), sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, national origin, age, marital status, disability, genetics (including testing and characteristics), or protected veteran status, uniformed service-member status, political affiliation or any classification protected by federal, state, or local law. Consistent with its obligations under federal law, each company that is a federal contractor or subcontractor is committed to taking affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified women, minorities, disabled individuals and veterans. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination policies. For questions, please contact Ann Harris at ann.harris@ohr.gatech.edu Accessibility Statement Georgia Institute of Technology is committed to making our online job application as accessible as possible. In the event you require accessibility assistance applying for open positions, please contact us at employee-relations@ohr.gatech.edu. EEO is the Law EEO is the Law Supplement Pay Transparency Nondiscrimination Provision Poster For additional information click here. Career Paths Georgia Tech offers academic and research faculty positions and administrative staff positions. These career paths can lead to professional growth and personal satisfaction while working with others who excel in their disciplines. More about Career Paths - Coming Soon! Select a career category below to learn more about specific job opportunities: Academic Faculty Research Faculty Staff & Temporary Staff Explore Georgia Tech Georgia Tech is one of the nation's top research universities, distinguished by its commitment to improving the human condition through advanced science and technology. Our campus occupies 450 acres in the heart of the city of Atlanta, where more than 20,000 undergraduate and graduate students receive a focused, technologically based education. Accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS), the Institute offers many nationally recognized, top-ranked programs. Undergraduate and graduate degrees are offered in the Colleges of Architecture, Engineering, Sciences, Computing, Management, and the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts. Work & Life Balance History & Traditions Diversity & Inclusion Campuses & Global Reach Strategic Plan Campus Tours & Virtual Tour Hiring Process Want to work at Georgia Tech? The hiring process is simple! Step 1: Search and apply for a job To apply for a job, begin by reviewing our current postings. Find the job you're interested in, click "Apply" and complete the online application. When you reach the "Thank You" page, you've successfully completed the job submission process for the position you selected. Step 3: Employment screening If you are extended an offer, upon your acceptance we will conduct a thorough pre-employment screen. This may include but is not limited to verifying your work and education history, a criminal background investigation, and a drug test. Step 2: Interview This is your opportunity to tell us more about your skills and for us to share more about the job, career opportunities, and our organization. You may experience a panel interview in which several people in the room will ask you questions, or you may have a series of one-on-one interviews. Step 4: Hire Now that you have successfully completed the hiring process, your next step is to report to work! Although this is the last step in the hiring process, we expect it will be your first step toward fulfilling your career potential at Georgia Tech. LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login