Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home About About the UCC The University Career Center (UCC) offers a wide range of quality services designed to support and challenge students at all points on their career development path. Career coaches provide individualized career coaching/planning services, outreach programs, the most comprehensive collection of career resources on campus, and numerous opportunities to network with leading employers from around the world. Location & Contact Information The University of Kansas Career Center is located on campus at Summerfield Hall. However currently the majority of our services and events are being offered virtually instead. 206 Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Drive Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-3624 ucc@ku.edu Events We offer a number virtual career fairs, and networking and educational events. Check out our schedule of events for more information about our upcoming events and programming. Room Reservations Do you need a quiet space to attend a virtual career fair, interview with an employer, or attend your career coaching appointment? If so, email Marshall.Miller@ku.edu or call 785-864-3624 to reserve room. Other Resources Need help outside our office hours? Check out the quick videos and helpful resources in Jayhawk Ready--a tool to help you with our career development needs! The P.H.O.G. Closet Monday thru Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. In Person and Virtual Career Coaching Monday - Friday: 8 am to 5 pm By Appointment Only Featured Resources Schedule a Career Coaching Appointment Take a Career Assessment Take Our Career Courses Vision To be recognized as a premier provider of career services that results in our students leading more meaningful, purposeful lives. Mission The UCC offers a range of resources all intended to: (1) Educate students about the career development, planning, and implementation process (2) Connect students with employment and experiential learning opportunities (3) Develop partnerships with administrators, faculty, alumni, & employers on projects that enhance career for students Contact Information Email: ucc@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-3624 The University of Kansas Summerfield Hall , 206 1300 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence , Kansas 66045 Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.