Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries internship programs UPIC On-Campus Internships departments / mentors online application form reimbursement request form students UPIC internship postings UPIC HR and Payroll Training UPIC Program Informational Video contact us International Internship Program Off-Campus Internship Program students students faq's employers Contact Us Micro Internship Program Internships and COVID-19 FAQ COVID-19 Virtual Services Internships and COVID-19 FAQ's As students come off of Spring Break, we thought it prudent to touch base about the spring and summer internship experiences. You will find frequently asked questions and answers below that addresses some of the concerns for all of our internship programs (international, stateside, and UPIC). The questions cover working remotely, mentor/intern correspondences, incomplete INT assignments, unfulfilled hours, and UPIC contact information. Since Clemson’s campus is currently closed, what does that mean for my summer internship experience? Acknowledging that each internship site is unique, we do not intend to cancel any internship programs at this point. We ask that mentors consider incorporating interns into any continuity planning occurring in the office/company/organization. For summer 2020, UPIC internships will be online/remote work experiences (though some may possibly switch to in-person later in the summer, depending on the department/office; please check with your mentor for details). What happens since my internship site is physically closed due to COVID-19 issues? At this time, interns should continue working off-site in the event an internship site requests employees to work remotely. We ask that mentors seek creative options with the student interns and develop duties that can be performed during a period of modified operations (training manuals and videos, significant projects that were previously on hold, reports and benchmarking, etc.). What happens if an internship site re-opens, but the student does not want to return on-site? Some student interns will not feel safe or comfortable returning to an on-site internship environment, and they might make a request to continue to work remotely. We ask that mentors, supervisors, and teaching partners give all requests and proposals consideration during this challenging time. If interns are asked to continue to work remotely, how should they stay in contact with their mentors? Since many interns will need to continue work remotely, please consider establishing a regular email routine, WebEx/Zoom check-ins, or Skype calls. Mentors and interns will continue to need to be aware of the work performed, intern/mentor expectations, and signature requirements for timesheets and other documentation. Will interns still receive a “Passing” grade if their summer internship is affected because of COVID-19 concerns? All internships are expected to be completed as normal this summer in terms of hours, assignments, etc. Since summer internships are beginning online (and most will remain that way), there should be a clear plan in place regarding remote project completion, meetings, etc. that result in the intern being able to achieve a “Pass” in the standard manner. As a reminder, the hours requirement is 160 hours for part-time interns and 320 for full-time interns. Will the fall internship programs continue to run? UPIC (on-campus) and stateside internship programs are scheduled to run as regularly scheduled at this time. Who do I contact if I have questions about an internship? The best way to contact us with questions about Off-campus internships or Off-campus INT classes (INT 1010, 1020, 1030, 2010, 2020, 2030, all sections of 8010) is via email. We will be checking email regularly between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday-Friday. Please contact: bnewsom@clemson.edu, 864-656-0316 Questions about recruiting and/or supervising off-campus interns: The best way to contact us is via email. We will be checking email regularly between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday-Friday. Please email bnewsom@clemson.edu and Cc: tnunama@clemson.edu Questions about UPIC Intern Submission TimeSheets: All timesheets must be submitted via email to upicpay@clemson.edu. There will not be an option to drop off timesheets at our office since the University is closed. All timesheets must include signatures for both the mentor and the intern Digital signatures are acceptable If you do not have Adobe Pro downloaded on your computer, you can download it from Clemson’s software website found here If you have questions about timesheets, the best way to contact us is to email us at upicpay@clemson.edu. We will be checking email regularly between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday-Friday For site visits/resume reviews/mock interviews and questions, contact your UPIC Advisor: Jenna Tucker, Caren Kelly-Hall, or Lisa Robinson. For questions about UPIC internship courses: For questions about INT 1510 and 2510, please contact Lisa Robinson. For questions about INT 1520, 1530, 1540, 2520, 2530, or 2540, please contact Caren Kelley-Hall. You may also contact any of our UPIC staff directly: Caren Kelley-Hall, EdD, caren@clemson.edu; 864-656-4483 Associate Director of University Professional Internship Program Lisa Robinson, JD, lrobin3@clemson.edu; 864-656-0283 Assistant Director of University Professional Internship Program Jenna Tucker, MEd, jennat@clemson.edu; 864-656-1786 Assistant Director of University Professional Internship Program Kelly Coffin, kcoffin@clemson.edu; 864-656-0282 Program Coordinator Toni Becker, tbecker@clemson.edu; 864-656-9946 Program Coordinator Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift