Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Career Center Home About Mission & Vision Our History Advisors Staff Our Brochure Undergraduate Career Advisors Explore Careers Internships Co-ops Honors Celebration LGBTQIA Resources FAQs Pre-Graduate & Pre-Professional Advising Job Search Resources Career Tools Resume Guide Professional Attire Interviewing Policies for Students Identifying Fraudulent Positions Graduate Getting Started Our Graduate Services Make an Appointment Job Search Advice/Resources Upcoming Events Graduate Internship Program Career Fair Information & General Job Aids Resume Guide Multicultural & Diversity Resources Graduate Professional Development Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Graduate Professional Development Video Series GT Campus Closet Employers Employer Town Halls Employer Connections Team Recruiting @ GT Posting a Job On-Campus Recruiting Student Resume Books Employer Proctoring Information Sessions Corporate Partnership Program Co-op & Internship Programs Global Internship Program Hiring Non-U.S.Citizens FAQs Career & Salary Survey Reports Alumni Pre-Graduates and Pre-Professionals Employment & Job Links Alumni Career Services Events Career Alliance @ GT Career Fairs Information Sessions Workshops Building/Visitor Parking Map Career Chat Hour Series Employer Insight Series Career Fair Employers After Hours Workshop Requests Contact Hours of Operation Location Travel, Hotels, & Attractions Directory & Staff Parents CareerBuzz Job Board Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Graduate Graduate Internship Program Information Graduate Internship Program Info Welcome We are excited that you are interested in participating in the Graduate Internship Program at Georgia Tech! The Graduate Internship program provides graduate students with the opportunity to work with industry and government leaders in their respective areas of study. Eligibility for the program is based on academic achievement at Georgia Tech. Research for master's and doctoral theses may be related to the work assignments, and is jointly supervised by Georgia Tech faculty and company staff. Eligibility for the Graduate Internship Program is based on academic achievement at Georgia Tech. Research for master's and doctoral theses may be related to the work assignments and is jointly supervised by Georgia Tech faculty and company staff. There is no tuition associated with the Graduate Internship Program, nor are there any required fees . Students are provided full-time enrollment status through registration in an audit credit Graduate Internship course. This permits students to retain all privileges of full-time enrolled students while on work assignments. Why Participate Your participation in the Graduate Internship Program will offer you a myriad of opportunities that will be beneficial to you both now and in the future. Those benefits include: Gaining major-related work experience prior to graduation through growth with an employer Increasing your understanding of classroom theory through practical experience Enhancing your marketability to employers upon graduation Understanding workplace culture and competencies Exploring career goals and options Evaluating your personal strengths and weaknesses and having the opportunity to improve on those weaknesses Sharpening your interpersonal skills Maturing as a professional Networking with other professionals in your field Building a great resume for the future Earning a competitive wage while learning Because you will be registered in a tuition-free internship course while working, you will retain your full-time student status. This status will allow you additional benefits, such as having your experience recorded on your transcript with no interruptions to your Georgia Tech enrollment, being retained on your parents' insurance policies, being able to participate in sporting events and other activities, use of campus housing and other facilities, and more. In addition to the above, students who are looking to intern outside of the United States can participate in the Georgia Tech Global Internship Program through the Office of Internal Education (OIE). The benefits of participating in the Global Internship Program are: Getting cross-cultural exposure by living and working in an international location Improving foreign language skills Gaining access to jobs not available in the U.S. marketplace Preparing for success in a global economy National and Georgia Tech studies and analysis have proven who participate in internships graduate with more than a degree. They have practical knowledge and a competitive advantage in today's job market---and are more prepared for professional success. Internship Application and Registration Process To begin your application to participate in the Georgia Tech Graduate Internship Program, please click HERE. If you choose to take a Georgia Tech course while working, get the permission of your department and internship supervisor before registering. Also, note that the class time must not interfere with your 40-hour work week. If you plan to take a class at another university while interning, make sure that your supervisor approves your taking the course and that the class time doesn’t interfere with your work schedule. Also, make sure your credit hours transfer to Georgia Tech through the following steps: Go to https://oscar.gatech.edu/pls/bprod/wwtraneq.P_TranEq_Ltr and review whether or not the course you wish to take at a particular institution has already been evaluated and approved by Georgia Tech as a transfer equivalency. If the course or institution is not listed in OSCAR, see your academic advisor to determine whether or not the credits will transfer. Click on the HELP link at https://oscar.gatech.edu/pls/bprod/wwtraneq.P_TranEq_Ltr to view specific Registrar requirements. For example, you cannot transfer credit for a course that you previously took at Georgia Tech. Other rules apply. If the institution teaching the course requires a “transient letter” from Georgia Tech, obtain one from the Registrar’s Office. Once you’ve completed the course, have the transfer institution to send your official transcript to: Georgia Institute of Technology Office of the Registrar Transfer Credit Atlanta GA , 30332-0315 International Students Participating International students holding F-1 and J-1 visas are eligible to work legally in the United States under Curricular Practical Training (CPT) and/or Optional Practical Training (OPT), and /or Academic Training. The Graduate Internship Program at Georgia Tech meets the criteria of both all three. Students must be in F-1 status for at least two semesters before they are eligible to work off-campus using any of these. International students participating in the Graduate Internship Program use the CPT work authorization, only, when working with the Career Center. Use of the OPT work authorization must be coordinated through the Office of International Education (OIE). The Career Center also handles Academic Training internships. OIE staff members assist students with questions regarding maintaining valid F-1 and J-1 status, obtaining social security, and I-20, CPT, and/or OPT process or processing issues. Career Advsiors are unable to assist, update, or issue CPT, OPT, or I-20 related questions. For more information on OIE or any visa related issues or international student issues, visit their Web site, http://www.oie.gatech.edu. CPT and OPT Work Authorizations Click on the links below to view the steps for obtaining CPT or OPT work authorization, which must be done before each work term. Failure to do so will jeopardize the student's eligibility to continue working in the United States. Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Optional Practical Training (OPT) NOTE* - Click HERE for information on new APPEAL PROCESS Working Consecutive Semesters 1.) Two Consecutive Work Terms a.) Students may be approved for two consecutive full-time graduate internship semesters. Typical approvals would be for spring – summer or summer – fall work terms. b.) Students should receive a separate approval for each term and create a separate placement record in CareerBuzz for each term. 2.) Requests for Three Consecutive Work Terms a.) Requests for three or more consecutive full-time work semesters must: i. Demonstrate a strong academic justification, ii. Must be approved by the major school graduate coordinator or school chair, iii. Must be reviewed by the Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education and Faculty Development. iv. The student must be making satisfactory academic progress while enrolled in internship. b.) Tuition Requirement for three or more consecutive work terms i. Students approved for more than two consecutive graduate internship semesters must register for at least three tuition-based credit hours during the third work term, except in exceptional circumstances. ii. The student is responsible for the tuition and fees associated with the registration. c.) How to request approval i. The student’s graduate coordinator or school chair must submit a written request addressed to addressed to Dr. Jana Stone, Director of Professional Development and Postdoctoral Services, Graduate Education and Faculty Development (VPGEFD). ii. The request for a third consecutive full-time graduate internship approval must: 1.) Demonstrate a strong academic justification, 2.) Confirm the student is making satisfactory academic progress while enrolled in graduate internship, and 3.) State the student will register for the 12 audit hour grad internship course and at least three tuition-based credit hours during the third work term. (Note: the student is responsible for the tuition and fees associated with the tuition-based credit hours.) Appeal Process Email: Dr. Jana Stone at jana.stone@gatech.edu Subject line: APPEAL REQUEST – Last Name Body of email should include the following information: Name Employer Name Proposed dates of employment Reason for appeal Please be aware that responses may require 5-7 business days. As we institute the appeal process, we appreciate your patience. Internship Frequently Asked Questions For a list of frequently asked questions regarding the Graduate Internship Program at Georgia Tech, please click HERE. Housing If you are interning in metro Atlanta, you may live in campus housing, if available. Students working outside the area will find that most employers offer some level of housing assistance. Such assistance ranges from providing students with a list of apartments in the area to arranging furnished housing and paying for a portion of the expenses. Your employer may give you the names of other interns working in the same location to help you find housing options and roommates. If you are working outside the Atlanta area, your advisor will give you a form to take to the campus housing office which will allow you to cancel your housing contract without penalty and to get a refund for your housing deposit. If you plan to intern during a given semester but are not sure you will get a job, register for classes and sign up for housing as a back-up plan. All can be easily reversed if you are hired. Remember to have your mail forwarded if you move for your internship. You can enter your forwarding address via the Oscar website. Login and go to the Personal Information menu. If you currently have an off-campus address, enter your temporary forwarding address with the United States Postal Service. Instagram LinkedIn Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Tech Career Center Bill Moore Student Success Center 219 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA. 30332 (404)894-3320 careercenter@gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login