Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries Events and Activities Options: Calendar: GeneralInternship ProgramMichelin Career CenterFairsGraduate Student SeminarAnnouncements Show Audience: Undergraduate Graduate Faculty/Staff Core Compentencies ALL Communication Collaboration Leadership Adaptability Analytical Skills Technology Self-Awareness Integrity & Ethics Brand Filter Search: Search Student leaders, are you wanting a professional development workshop for your club or organization members? The Center for Career and Professional Development can help you plan a successfull professional development event for your members. Click here to read our Career Consultant Booklet that will help guide you in planning a successful professional development event for your organization. Tue, Jun 7, 2022 11:30 AM to 12:15 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! Benefits and Salary HR professionals Anthony McKnight (MSML) and Kelsey Crawford will discuss resources in determining a competitive salary. Specifically, they will work through one of the most valuable systems for a salary market analysis that is entirely free for our students. They will also review typical benefits students should look for at companies they consider for employment. A Zoom link will be sent to your prior to the workshop. Virtual Via Zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Self-Awareness Brand Tue, Jun 14, 2022 11:30 AM to 12:15 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! Be Your Own Boss – Building Your Side Hussle Attend this session to learn more about developing your entrepreneurial pursuits and how to discover new opportunities for your future. A zoom link will be sent to you prior to this event. Virtual Via Zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Brand Wed, Jun 22, 2022 11 to 11:45 AM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! Interviewing Stories Students will learn how to explain elements of their resume and experience, how to be professional in an interview and proper communication during the candidate process. By attending this workshop, you will receive key tips to stand out as a strong candidate in the job searching process. A zoom link will be sent prior to the workshop. Virtual Via Zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Wed, Jul 6, 2022 11 to 11:45 AM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! Cultivate Mentorship Anywhere A good mentor can make a huge impact on your life. Join this panel to ask questions about how to find mentors wherever you are in your professional journey (graduate/professional school, internships, and full-time roles). Panelist will be available to ask about the mentor/mentee relationship, how to maintain your connections throughout your career, and provide tips on identifying a mentor. A zoom link will be sent to you prior to the workshop. Virtual Via Zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Leadership Wed, Jul 13, 2022 11:30 AM to 12:15 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! Polishing your Professional Image Did you know that 92% of students believe that dressing well is an important part of acing an interview, but nearly 1 in 5 say they aren’t even sure what to wear to an interview? (Source: IndiCo Suitable Attire). This interactive workshop will review the essentials of creating your unique polished and professional look and the necessities to dress for success. Whether you are preparing for the career fair, a conference, an interview, or other professional experiences you want to make sure you look your best. A zoom link will be sent prior to this workshop. Virtual Via Zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Brand Sun, Sep 18, 2022 Add to your Google Calendar. SAVE THE DATE! Fall Suit-Up! Event SHOP CAREER DRESS APPAREL Our Annual Suit-Up event is back and we are excited about continuing our partnership with JC Penny! Everything you need to finish your look for that next interview or new job, including suits, dresses, sport coats, dress pants, shoes and accessories. Details will be posted closer to the date with times and discounts. Mark your calendars today! JC Penny Store, 3187 N. Main Street, Anderson, SC 29621 Audience: U G Core Competencies: Tue, Sep 20, 2022 - Thu, Sep 22, 2022 Add to your Google Calendar. SAVE THE DATES! Fall Career Fairs Save the Dates! Our Fall Career Fairs are scheduled for September 20th, 21st and 22nd. The first two days will focus on Technology, Manufacturing, Eng., & Science and the third day will focus on Social sciences, Humanities, and Business. All three days will be held in Littlejohn Coliseum from Noon to 4 PM. Registration and detailed information will be available the first week in July. Littlejohn Coliseum Audience: U G Core Competencies: Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift