Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries cooperative education co-op ambassadors the co-op concept the co-op rotation Co-op Program Stats students getting started Rotation Instructions Assignments Reports Instructions co-op and financial aid co-op FAQs Employers Interview Days Employer FAQs Academic Terms Co-op Salary Survey COVID-19 Virtual Services Teaching Partners benefit from the Co-op Program Our participating companies are able to connect with Clemson University in a meaningful way when they become Teaching Partners in our program. They gain a higher visibility on campus and are able to connect with motivated young talent. In addition, our teaching partners find that they are able to: Participate in the education of potential future employees Evaluate a student’s on-the-job performance before making a long-term commitment Reduce costs and time associated with recruiting and training new graduates Recognize unique talent and skills through the process of co-op rotations that coincide with a student’s natural maturation process through college Obtain immediate productivity from co-op graduates who offer real assistance to senior professionals, releasing them for more complex responsibilities. What does the Co-op Program expect of our Teaching Partners? Co-op students should be challenged with work that allows them to apply what they’re learning in the classroom. Students should be given the opportunity to learn new concepts in their chosen field of study. Each student’s experience is monitored by the program’s academic staff to ensure learning is taking place. Projects should require them to think critically and solve problems creatively. The following is a list of additional expectations for our employer teaching partners: Assign the student to a mentor supervisor who holds a similar undergraduate degree, who understands his/her role as a teacher and who is willing to meet with the student regularly to set and review semester learning goals. Evaluate the student at least twice each semester by providing a midterm review and an end-of rotation evaluation. End-of-rotation evaluations are submitted to the Co-op Program. Communicate with the program’s academic staff with respect to student performance issues and notify the staff of remedial and corrective actions employed. Pay a competitive wage to the students working in the co-op assignments. A salary survey is regularly updated by the Program and is provided to all employers. Provide a full time experience (typically 40 hours per week) and pay overtime when students are expected to work in excess of a normal work week. Ensure the co-op rotations coincide with the university academic terms by beginning and ending at approximately the same time as the semesters. Commit to the required rotations for the student’s academic discipline provided that the student’s performance is satisfactory as determined by the teaching partner. Follow the Program’s instructions to interview students and extend offers only in the semester before their rotations begin. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift