Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search University Leaves of Absence You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management University Leaves of Absence About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links What are university leaves of absence? University leaves of absence (ULOA) are available to eligible employees for medical, personal or educational reasons. ULOA may cover leave requests that do not qualify under the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and may be taken when additional time is needed after the expiration of an FMLA leave. The total leave time including FMLA, sick, vacation, other accrued time and personal days may not exceed one year. Contents Types of University Leaves Of AbsenceApply For University Leaves Of AbsenceEmployees covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements/UnionsReturn to WorkOther LeavesDisability InsuranceContact Us All personal and medical information provided to Absence Management is held in strict confidence. Types of University Leaves of Absence There are three types of ULOA available. University medical leave University personal leave University military leave University Medical Leave A university medical leave may be approved for medical reasons not eligible or otherwise covered by FMLA and/or other protected leaves. Eligibility To be eligible, an employee must be either a full-time or regular part-time (20 hours or more), nonbargaining employee, and have completed at least six months of continuous service. Granting of a university medical leave is a sole discretionary determination by the university. Provisions A university medical leave is unpaid, unless the employee has paid sick, vacation, other accrued time or personal days available. In such cases, the employee will be required to use these days until no more are available. Vacation, personal time and paid sick time do not accrue during any unpaid leave of absence. An approved university medical leave does not guarantee that an employee may return to his/her position and does not extend any right to reinstatement under the FMLA policy. If the employee returns from the leave within the leave period, the university will make reasonable efforts to place the employee into an open position for which the employee is qualified. If no positions are available, the employment relationship will end. If an employee is covered under Temple University’s health insurance plans and other insurance benefits, they will continue while the employee is on paid leave of any type. Benefit coverage will be continued while an employee is on unpaid leave of any type if the employee pays the entire cost of such coverage. The university may terminate an employee’s coverage for failing to make premium contribution payments. Employee retirement savings plan participation may also continue during any period in which the employee continues to receive payment for accrued sick or vacation time. Employees cannot contribute through the university to any retirement savings plan while on unpaid leave. University Personal Leave A university personal leave may be approved for personal reasons and is subject to departmental approval. Eligibility To be eligible, an employee must be either a full-time or regular part-time (20 hours or more), nonbargaining employee, and have completed at one year of continuous service. Granting of a university personal leave is a sole discretionary determination by the university. Provisions A university personal leave is unpaid, unless the employee has vacation, other accrued or personal days available. In such cases, the employee will be required to use these days until no more are available. Vacation, personal time and paid sick time do not accrue during any unpaid leave of absence. An approved university personal leave does not guarantee that an employee may return to his/her position and does not extend any right to reinstatement under the FMLA policy. If the employee returns from the leave within the leave period, the university will make reasonable efforts to place the employee into an open position for which the employee is qualified. If no positions are available, the employment relationship will end. Upon approval from the provost and other designated university officers (and the president in cases where the request is greater than one year), a faculty member may request a university personal leave to pursue other personal opportunities for which compensation is received. In general, a request for a university personal leave is for less than one year in duration. Temple, after careful and due consideration, shall grant or deny the request. University Military Leave A university military leave may be approved for an employee ordered to duty as part of military reserves or the National Guard. Eligibility Any employee who is called to or enlists for active duty in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Coast Guard, Public Health Service commissioned corps, and the reserve components of these services and the National Guard, in response to call-ups to aid with our nation’s security and defense needs, automatically shall be granted a leave of absence in accordance with the provisions of the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, for up to five (5) years. This leave can be extended if the national emergency continues beyond that period. Provisions Any employee may use accumulated vacation or personal days prior to beginning the military leave of absence. For employees whose active service is 31 days or more, the university will continue the employee’s health benefits coverage for a period of 30 days from the date military leave begins, after which time the employee will have the option of continuing such coverage at their own expense while on active military leave. Applicable tuition benefits for dependent children and a spouse will remain in effect for the duration of an employee’s military leave. Apply for University Leaves of Absence To apply, log in and navigate to TUportal > Staff Tools tab > Employee Dashboard channel. Scroll down to Additional Links and select Leave of Absence Request; or call our office at 215-926-2282. Upon our office receiving your completed application, we will contact you within five (5) days as to the decision of your leave request. Temple University requires employees to use all unused sick time when appropriate under the leave policy, vacation, other accrued time and personal times. When an employee exhausts all paid time off, the balance of their leave becomes unpaid. Apply via TUportal Employees on an approved university leave of absence may not engage in any work activity at Temple or elsewhere without the expressed written approval of the university. Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements/Unions Employees covered by a union and, therefore, a collective bargaining agreement or contract should consult the agreement for additional information. In cases in which university policy and an agreement are in conflict, the provisions of the agreement will supersede. Return to Work An employee who takes time off under university medical leave for their own illness/injury will be required to submit to our office a physician’s release to return to work before returning to work. The release must be completed by the employee’s health care provider (HCP). The release to return to work confirms that the employee is able to return to work with the ability to carry out all the essential functions of their job. If an employee’s HCP is recommending a return to work with limitations, the release must document the employee’s ability to return to work and detail the recommended limitations. The release document must be submitted 10 days prior to the employee’s scheduled return date. The Absence Management Department will review and determine the university’s ability to accommodate the work limitation(s). An employee may not return to work without submitting a complete release to return to work to the Absence Management Department. Failure to return to work as scheduled may constitute a violation and result in sanctions as outlined in the Rules of Conduct. Other Leaves Below are other leaves that are not federally mandated or Temple University-sponsored for which an employee may qualify. Below is information about these leaves. Philadelphia domestic abuse leave Philadelphia sick leave Philadelphia pregnancy leave Disability Insurance Disability insurance is available to eligible faculty and staff. Plans provide a level of income replacement, as well as continued benefits plan coverage, when an employee becomes disabled and is unable to work. The level of coverage may vary depending on the employee’s job classification and/or any applicable collective bargaining agreement. See additional information on disability insurance. Contact Us For questions regarding the university leaves of absence, call 215-926-2282 or email loa@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.