Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Career Center Home About Mission & Vision Our History Advisors Staff Our Brochure Undergraduate Career Advisors Explore Careers Internships Co-ops Honors Celebration LGBTQIA Resources FAQs Pre-Graduate & Pre-Professional Advising Job Search Resources Career Tools Resume Guide Professional Attire Interviewing Policies for Students Identifying Fraudulent Positions Graduate Getting Started Our Graduate Services Make an Appointment Job Search Advice/Resources Upcoming Events Graduate Internship Program Career Fair Information & General Job Aids Resume Guide Multicultural & Diversity Resources Graduate Professional Development Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Graduate Professional Development Video Series GT Campus Closet Employers Employer Town Halls Employer Connections Team Recruiting @ GT Posting a Job On-Campus Recruiting Student Resume Books Employer Proctoring Information Sessions Corporate Partnership Program Co-op & Internship Programs Global Internship Program Hiring Non-U.S.Citizens FAQs Career & Salary Survey Reports Alumni Pre-Graduates and Pre-Professionals Employment & Job Links Alumni Career Services Events Career Alliance @ GT Career Fairs Information Sessions Workshops Building/Visitor Parking Map Career Chat Hour Series Employer Insight Series Career Fair Employers After Hours Workshop Requests Contact Hours of Operation Location Travel, Hotels, & Attractions Directory & Staff Parents CareerBuzz Job Board Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Events Building/Visitor Parking Map A map of the Georgia Tech Career Center and the Georgia Tech campus is available for download in a PDF format. If you do not have Adobe Acrobat Reader, you can download the application by going to the Adobe homepage. Parking Procedures: The Visitor Parking Area has an automated parking attendant. You will be issued an automated ticket when you enter the parking area. The parking rate is $2.00 per hour (maximum of $20/day). When you exit the parking area you will insert your ticket into the automated attendant and then insert the payment amount indicated. The parking attendant accepts cash and credit/debit cards as payment and will provide a receipt. If the North Avenue Visitor Parking area is full, the next most convenient lot will be adjacent to the Student Center/Student Services Buildings. That lot is located on Ferst Drive. To get there turn left out of the parking area onto North Avenue. Take the first right onto Cherry Street, and follow it around the curve onto Ferst Drive. Proceed on Ferst Drive until you see the Student Center Parking banner (Parking Area 2) on the right side of the street. Ticketing and/or "booting" of illegally parked vehicles is enforced. Ticket/towing fees must be borne by the recipient. Please park in one of these visitor lots. Career Center Building Location Our offices are located in the Bill Moore Student Success Center (1st Floor) and the Employer Check-in area for on campus interviews is located in the Basement area of the same building. The building is located across the street from the North Avenue Parking Area. To get to our building you can cross the street underneath the crosswalk above the street or you can use the crosswalk at the top of the parking deck. Once you walk across North Avenue from the parking area please follow the sidewalk to the right near the football stadium to the first building on the right (Building #31 - Bill Moore Student Success Center). After entering the building take the elevators to the basement level if you are conducting interviews or to the 1st floor if you are meeting with one of our staff members. Instagram LinkedIn Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Tech Career Center Bill Moore Student Success Center 219 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA. 30332 (404)894-3320 careercenter@gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login