Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Career Center Home About Mission & Vision Our History Advisors Staff Our Brochure Undergraduate Career Advisors Explore Careers Internships Co-ops Honors Celebration LGBTQIA Resources FAQs Pre-Graduate & Pre-Professional Advising Job Search Resources Career Tools Resume Guide Professional Attire Interviewing Policies for Students Identifying Fraudulent Positions Graduate Getting Started Our Graduate Services Make an Appointment Job Search Advice/Resources Upcoming Events Graduate Internship Program Career Fair Information & General Job Aids Resume Guide Multicultural & Diversity Resources Graduate Professional Development Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Graduate Professional Development Video Series GT Campus Closet Employers Employer Town Halls Employer Connections Team Recruiting @ GT Posting a Job On-Campus Recruiting Student Resume Books Employer Proctoring Information Sessions Corporate Partnership Program Co-op & Internship Programs Global Internship Program Hiring Non-U.S.Citizens FAQs Career & Salary Survey Reports Alumni Pre-Graduates and Pre-Professionals Employment & Job Links Alumni Career Services Events Career Alliance @ GT Career Fairs Information Sessions Workshops Building/Visitor Parking Map Career Chat Hour Series Employer Insight Series Career Fair Employers After Hours Workshop Requests Contact Hours of Operation Location Travel, Hotels, & Attractions Directory & Staff Parents CareerBuzz Job Board Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Undergraduate Co-Ops Click Here for undergraduate advisors for help with co-ops. Whether you are a student seeking the best in relevant education or whether you are an employer seeking well-educated, student talent, the co-op program can help you meet your long-term goals for work-integrated learning through a committed partnership. For over 100 years, both students at Georgia Tech and employers from business, industry, and government have formed co-op partnerships to help develop the best-educated engineers, scientists, and managers. Co-op is the link between the classroom and the workplace. Knowledge is gained and transferred between students and employers in alternating semesters of school and work, typically with the same employer. Multiple semesters are required because real learning takes time, commitment, and patience. Co-op at Georgia Tech is an optional, five-year program. Program Eligibility • GPA of 2.0 or above • Good academic standing • Co-op students must have three or more academic semesters remaining at the start of the first work term • Experiential Learning Application must be completed in CareerBuzz Co-op students are required to complete registration to be enrolled in the CO-OP tuition-free, 12 audit hours (non-credit bearing) course. Between work terms, co-op students must take at least 12 hours of classes during fall or spring and at least 6 hours during a summer semester. Benefits of Course Enrollment: Audit hours are recorded on the official transcript Earnings do not affect FAFSA status Maintain active student status during your work terms Cancelation of housing without penalty if working 25 miles or more from campus Support from the Career Center during your work terms Eligibility for co-op scholarships Eligibility for membership in the Briaerean Honors Society Co-op designation on the graduation diploma at the completion of the 3 work terms Look Below for some additional information about Co-ops: Taking a Course While Co-oping Most co-ops do not take any classes during their work terms. If you choose to take a Georgia Tech course while working, get the permission of both your co-op advisor and supervisor before registering. Also, note that the class time must not interfere with your 40-hour workweek. If you plan to take a class at another university while co-oping, make sure that your supervisor approves your taking the course and that the class time doesn’t interfere with your work schedule. Also, make sure your credit hours transfer to Georgia Tech through the following steps: Go to https://oscar.gatech.edu/pls/bprod/wwtraneq.P_TranEq_Ltr and review whether or not the course you wish to take at a particular institution has already been evaluated and approved by Georgia Tech as a transfer equivalency. If the course or institution is not listed in OSCAR, see your academic advisor to determine whether or not the credits will transfer. Click on the HELP link at https://oscar.gatech.edu/pls/bprod/wwtraneq.P_TranEq_Ltr to view specific Registrar requirements. For example, you cannot transfer credit for a course that you previously took at Georgia Tech. Other rules apply. If the institution teaching the course requires a “transient letter” from Georgia Tech, obtain one from the Registrar’s Office. Once you’ve completed the course, have the transfer institution to send your official transcript to: Georgia Institute of Technology Office of the Registrar Transfer Credit Atlanta GA, 30332-0315 Verifying Full-Time Status While Co-oping Insurance companies often require proof of full-time student status. While co-oping, you will be registered for a tuition-free, 12-hour audit course that allows you to maintain your full-time status. Georgia Tech has contracted with the National Student Clearinghouse to take care of enrollment verifications. Please log on to your OSCAR account and print an enrollment verification certificate through the National Student Clearinghouse link under "Student Records - Verification Requests.” The enrollment verification certificate can be printed immediately and provided to the insurance carrier at your convenience. A box in the upper right corner of the certificate allows you to write in the Policy Holder name and ID#. For detailed instructions, please see: Office of the Registrar Enrollment Verification Housing If you are co-oping or interning in metro Atlanta, you may live in campus housing, if available. Students working outside the area will find that most employers offer some level of housing assistance. Such assistance ranges from providing students with a list of apartments in the area to arranging furnished housing and paying for a portion of the expenses. Your employer may give you the names of other co-ops working in the same location to help you find housing options and roommates. If you are working outside the Atlanta area, your advisor will sign the housing cancelation docusign form which will allow you to cancel your housing contract without penalty and to get a refund for your housing deposit. If you plan to co-op or intern during a given semester but are not sure you will get a job, register for classes and sign up for housing as a backup plan. All can be easily reversed if you are hired. Remember to have your mail forwarded if you move for your co-op job or internship. You can enter your forwarding address via the OSCAR website. Login and go to the Personal Information menu. If you currently have an off-campus address, enter your temporary forwarding address at the US Postal Service site:https://moversguide.usps.com/?referral=USPS Housing Outside of Atlanta New York Intern Student Housing (Educational Housing Services, Inc.) Washington Intern Student Housing (WISH) Co-op Documentation Students need to submit three work forms during each co-op work term: a Work Term Goals & Objectives during the first three weeks, and a Work Report and Student Performance Evaluation (from their supervisors) during the last two weeks of their work term. Please submit your Work Term Goals & Objectives and Work Report directly through CareerBuzz. After you’ve logged into CareerBuzz, click on the “Submit Your Work Term Goals & Objectives” or "Submit Your Work Report" link under the "Experiential Learning" section of your homepage. You will receive reminder emails concerning completing both your Work Term Goals & Objectives and your Work Report during your work term. Your supervisor will receive an email at the end of your co-op/internship work term with a link to the Student Performance Evaluation. When you receive the reminder to complete your Work Report, check to be sure your supervisor received the link to complete your Student Performance Evaluation. You should schedule a time to meet with your supervisor to discuss the completed evaluation so that you receive feedback on your performance. Graduating with the Co-op Plan Degree Students who complete the requirements for the co-op plan will receive the co-op designation on their diploma when they graduate from Georgia Tech. In order to receive the co-op designation, students must satisfy the following requirements: Work at least three(3) alternating semesters, two of which must be during a fall or spring semester. Work must be full-time 40 hours/week for a minimum of 8 weeks during summer and a minimum of 14 weeks during fall or spring. You will be registered for the appropriate COOP course for each term. Receive satisfactory Performance Evaluations from supervisor for all work terms. Submit the Work Term Goals & Learning Objectives and the Work Report for each work term. During the semester before the term of graduation, students should follow the procedures of their academic unit regarding their degree petition. Co-ops should check online to be sure the degree includes the co-op designation. If the co-op designation is missing, co-ops should contact the Career Center. Experiential Learning Co-op Internships Global Internship Program Apply to the Exp. Learning Program Work Term Responsibilities International CPT/OPT How to Register Your Internship or Co-op Appeal Process Calendars & Deadlines Experiential Learning FAQs Back to Undergraduate Students Instagram LinkedIn Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Tech Career Center Bill Moore Student Success Center 219 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA. 30332 (404)894-3320 careercenter@gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login