Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University LAS Career Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Alumni Employers Faculty/Staff Get Started Career Planning Connecting Majors to Careers Career Presentations Career Outcomes Interactive Database Career Services Policies for Students Prepare LAS 203: Professional Career Preparation Resumes, Cover Letters, and References Interviews Salaries and Benefits Graduate School Influence of Attributes Find a Job or Internship CyHire Networking Resources Career Fairs Internships for Credit About Us Contact Us Schedule an Appointment Report a Concern Employers LAS Career Services helps employers connect with thousands of current students and alumni. All employer services are provided free of charge, with the exception of career fairs. We are happy to meet with you to discuss your recruitment needs via phone, virtual meeting, or in person. Recruiting Opportunities Posting Positions to CyHire: Career Services offers a free, online recruiting system, CyHire, which allows employers to post internship and full-time positions for all Iowa State University students to access. Employers can create an organization profile, schedule interviews, advertise on-campus information sessions, and register for career fairs. All professional positions must be posted on CyHire to recruit at Iowa State University in compliance with Equal Employment Opportunity. Go to CyHire Click on “Sign Up and Post Job” Complete the form and click “Submit” Once we approve your registration, you will receive a system email with your login information Position postings are promoted to all ISU students and any alum that requests access. CyHire makes it easy for job seekers to search for positions. Resumes and other application materials can be collected in CyHire, via email or directed to your organization’s website. Interview Scheduling: CyHire makes it convenient to schedule and arrange in-person and virtual interviews. Students apply to posted positions in CyHire and candidates can be invited to interview. Once invited, selected candidates can choose a time slot in your interview schedule. Information Sessions: Name recognition is very important to effective college recruiting. Virtual and/or in-person information sessions market your organization to students and inform them of your employment opportunities. LAS Career Services will promote your information session to students through CyHire and weekly emails. Career Fairs: Twice a year, in September and February, LAS Career Services co-hosts two career fairs: People to People Career Fair Business, Industry, and Technology Career Fair Numerous career fairs are held on Iowa State University’s campus each year. All students, alumni, and job seekers are welcome to attend. For a complete list of upcoming career fairs, click here. Employer registration is found in CyHire. Join LAS Connect: LAS Connect is an online platform that provides opportunities for LAS alumni to connect with LAS students and other alums. Alumni can assist students looking for internships or help recent graduates with career advice. Whether you have decades of experience or are just starting your professional career—your perspective is valuable! We encourage alumni to join LAS Connect and help build a strong online LAS community. Sign up is quick and easy, using your email, LinkedIn, or Facebook profile. Offer Acceptance Policy Liberal Arts and Sciences Career Services encourages employers to give students as much time as possible to evaluate job offers and make informed decisions without undue pressure. Employers should provide candidates with a minimum of three weeks from the offer date to evaluate the opportunity for both internships and full-time positions. We also encourage employers to consider requests for additional time on an individual basis. Offers made to students for positions should be made in writing. Written offers should follow verbal offers via email or post. LAS Career Services Employer Newsletter Spring 2020 Fall 2020 Resources for Employers Policies & Principles for Employers Employment statistics for the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Majors and Minors in Liberal Arts and Sciences Academic Departments Career Fairs Student Organizations Enrollment Statistics LAS Career Services College of Liberal Arts and Sciences LAS Career Services 411 Morrill Rd Carver Hall 150 Ames, IA 50011 lascs@iastate.edu 515-294-8691 phone Instagram Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...