Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries Who We Are Connecting educational experiences with professional aspirations A collaboration between the Cooperative Education Program, the University Professional Internship/Co-op (UPIC) Program, and the Michelin Career Center of Clemson University; CCPD's services and professional partnerships empower students as they transition into successful careers. Diversity statement We strive to educate ourselves and others about the issues of a pluralistic society. We are committed to reaching beyond the views of individuals to value a community that appreciates and learns from each others' similarities and differences. Our services and programs will seek to create a safe environment that affirms the dignity and worth of each individual regardless of their differences. We will set an example of commitment to embracing differences, including those differences that are not visually apparent. We will welcome and serve people regardless of gender, ethnicity, race, sexual orientation, age, citizenship, religion, socioeconomic status and physical and mental abilities. In addition, we encourage employers to maintain a similar standard of commitment to diversity. What we offer Careers Begin Here Our services are available to all Clemson undergraduates, graduate students, and recent alumni: career assessments career closet career development and planning career fairs and events cooperative education program counseling services internship programs job search assistance interview tips and mock interviews on-campus interviewing professional development workshops professional networking resume and cover letter review request a workshop Our programs Cooperative Education Program The Cooperative Education Program provides an opportunity for students to alternate semesters of academic study with semesters of paid, career-related, engaged-learning experience. Internship Programs The Center for Career and Professional Development offers many unique services for students as well as for both on-campus and off-campus employers regarding providing, developing and securing an internship opportunity. Career Development and Recruiting The Michelin Career Center offers many unique services, such as career assessments, career workshops, mock interviews, on-campus recruiting / interviewing, and job search counseling and assistance. Employer Relations Through the Career Center, employers can effectively connect to students, more easily identify potential candidates, and greatly increase their company's visibility. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift