Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries About Us Ask us a Question Contact Us Staff Directory Org Chart Corporate Partners Data and Analytics Directions to the CCPD Our Career Ambassadors Our Co-op Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Privacy Policy COVID-19 Virtual Services cooperative education internship programs Michelin Career Center Career Development and Job Search Parent and Family Resources Employer Services Center for Career and Professional Development Privacy Policy Clemson University and the Michelin Career Center are committed to protecting the privacy of your personal information. The Michelin Career Center contracts with Symplicity Corporation and the NACElink Network to provide Clemson University students with ClemsonJobLink. ClemsonJobLink is our online system that provides job listings, the on-campus recruiting system, and resume services. Please refer to the NACElink Privacy Statement (http://www2.nacelink.com/nl_privacy_policy.php) for technical details and a description of the NACElink.com site. Use of Personally Identifiable Candidate Information by the Michelin Career Center at Clemson University Through NACElink, available via the Michelin Career Center website, students and registered alumni can post resumes, view and apply for jobs, and schedule on-campus interviews. The information in a candidate’s profile is used by the Career Center for job-search advising, promoting programs and services, notifying candidates of employment opportunities, and referring qualified candidates to employers. Third party recruiters, such as employment agencies or search firms, do not have access to resume books and are only allowed to post internal positions for their organization. Students may choose to provide their resume to these employers. Only the resumes of students who have given permission to have their resumes released to employers are shared with prospective employers. Students grant permission by including their resume in a resume book or by submitting their resume to a job posting. Resumes are selected based on objective, legally-permissible requirements. Employers do not have general access to view information or resumes directly from the Michelin Career Center database. Employers may only see the resumes that have been shared and published in a resume book or specifically applied to that employer. The Michelin Career Center may conduct searches on resumes and candidate profiles to notify candidates of educational or employment opportunities through email communications. By entering data into the ClemsonJobLink/NACElink system, students and alumni may have data included in aggregate reports used for evaluation of employment activities, educational programs, reports developed for institutional studies, and salary surveys. The Michelin Career Center is continually involved in educational research in the areas of recruitment and employment and student data maintained in ClemsonJobLink may be used in support of this research. Your privacy is important to us. In accordance with institutional research guidelines, we maintain strict confidentiality of all student data and do not identify individual students or employers when analyzing recruiting data and providing related reports. NACElink cannot use or sell individual candidate data. Unlike commercial vendors, NACElink staff cannot look at individual candidate data. Security Personally identifiable information is protected both on - and offline. The data of students, alumni, and employers are password protected. NACElink has technical, administrative, and physical security measures and safeguards in place to protect against the loss, misuse, or alteration of information under NACE’s control. The Michelin Career Center does not endorse any employer and urges students to use good judgment in all of their interactions with employers. The Michelin Career Center is not responsible for safety, wages, working conditions or other aspects of off-campus employment. Due to the volume of jobs received by this office, we are unable to research the integrity of each organization or person that lists a job with us. The Michelin Career Center suggests that students request business references for unknown organizations before interviewing with them off campus or exploring job opportunities. Students should never give a potential employer their credit card, social security numbers, or bank account numbers, and never spend any of their own money on an employment “opportunity” unless very certain that it is for a legitimate reason (such as training costs). The Michelin Career Center advises students to interview in public places only. For more information about protection during a job search, students may review the section, "Safeguarding Your Job Search" at http://www.clemson.edu/career/students/applying/jobsearch/safeguard.php Students and alumni should contact The Michelin Career Center if they have any concerns about the use of their information. Students and alumni can view, correct or change their information by logging into their ClemsonJobLink account on the Michelin Career Center website. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift