Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries About Us Ask us a Question Contact Us Staff Directory Org Chart Corporate Partners Data and Analytics Directions to the CCPD Our Career Ambassadors Our Co-op Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Privacy Policy COVID-19 Virtual Services cooperative education internship programs Michelin Career Center Career Development and Job Search Parent and Family Resources Employer Services Michelin From its beginnings in 1889 as a small rubber factory in Clermont, France, Michelin has grown into the largest tire company in the world, with 67 plants on four continents, more than 110,000 employees and the reputation for producing top quality tires. Michelin Group is an international group of corporations dedicated to the disciplines of science, research, manufacturing, marketing and sales. We have one profession and one mission which is improving our contribution to the progress of mobility. Michelin Group oversees tire manufacturing, R&D, and commercial operations worldwide. Michelin North America, headquartered in Greenville, South Carolina, is a major part of Michelin Group, representing one-third of its total tire sales. Michelin North America employs about 23,000 people in 18 facilities including a state-of-the-art research and development center, a newly-expanded headquarters facility and sales offices across the country. Since the 1990 acquisition of Uniroyal Goodrich by Michelin Group, the company offers customers three leading brand-name products - Michelin, BFGoodrich and Uniroyal, as well as many private and associate brand products. Visit Michelin's website at http://www.michelin.com/. We appreciate our corporate partners. Learn more about the Corporate Partner Program. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift