Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Alumni Congratulations on your achievement of graduating from KU. At the University Career Center, we understand that career planning is a lifelong process and that you may need some assistance with your career plans from time to time. The good news is that most of the services available to KU students are also available to KU alumni. The most commonly sought after services from alumni are resume reviews, career coaching (including assessments), mock interviews and job search assistance. Help with career planning and job search Career coaching services are available to assist with the next step in your career plans. Considering a career change? Just getting started? Need help with your resume or a big interview? Career coaches can partner with you to help you take advantage of your resources in order to take the next step. Additionally, we offer Hire Jayhawks as a service to alumni looking to search for internships and full-time opportunities. All services, including HireJayhawks.com, are free up through six months after your graduation date. For those needing assistance beyond six months after graduation, the following is the fee structure of our alumni services: First visit: Complimentary (one per year) Subsequent appointments (all types): $50 per visit (payment portal) Career Assessments: $50 per assessment with one complimentary appointment Career coaches are available by appointment and can meet with alumni via in person meetings, the phone, or by webcam using Skype for Business. For more information or to set up your appointment, call 785-864-3624. HireJayhawks.com School of Business Alumni: please contact the School of Business directly to receive access or information on their alumni services: 785-864-5591 / bcsc@ku.edu. School of Engineering Alumni: please contact the School of Engineering directly to receive access or information on their alumni services: 785-864-3891 / ecc@ku.edu. If you did not graduate from the School of Business or the School of Engineering: Hire Jayhawks (job and internship listings): Requires online registration and a $40 per year access fee. After you complete the registration form, you will be given one-week of free access to HireJayhawks to evaluate whether or not you would like a one year access pass, which costs $40 per year. Please read the professional conduct policy before registering; after your one-week of free access, if you would like to pay the $40 fee, please email us at kucareer@ku.edu. For more information on using Hire Jayhawks, please check out our FAQ. Additional UCC resources KU University Career Center LinkedIn Group is a networking resource to connect KU alumni, students, employers, faculty, and staff. Careers and KU Majors contains extensive online information on career options based on academic and industry paths and includes internships, job search sources and professional organizations for each KU major. The UCC delivers a wide variety of career fairs and networking events throughout the academic year; alumni are welcome. Get connected to KU students Does your organization recruit students for internships and/or post graduate job opportunities? Contact us to find out how we can help you get connected to KU students. Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.