Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Beyond KU Spring 2022 Past Events Careers with Canines Wednesday, March 23rd | 9:30 AM - 10:30 AM Do you have a love for dogs and animals? Have you dreamed of getting to spend all your time with them, but you aren’t sure where to begin? Take your passion and make it your purpose--no matter your major! Beyond KU: Careers with Canines hopes to demonstrate how you can take your passion for dogs and animals and turn that into a career! Panelists include: Alyssa Willett - Community Support Manager, KC Pet Project Jade Mar - General Manager, Bar K Katie Barnett - Animal Welfare Counsel, Lawrence Humane Society Amanda Smasal - Special Events Manager, Wayside Waifs Pathways Beyond the Professoriate Wednesday, March 9th | 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM Earning a PhD is a long and challenging process. While a tenure-track faculty job is the goal for many PhD candidates, more people are finding rewarding careers outside of academia. The skills gained during a PhD program – research, writing, critical thinking, and communications (to name a few) – are all highly valuable to companies and organizations. Join us for Beyond KU: Pathways Beyond the Professoriate, a virtual panel featuring individuals who took their skills and education into diverse career pathways. Panelists include: Dr. Casey Keel - Editorial Writer, USDA Economic Research Service Dr. Devon Lee - Director of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Programs, Jopwell Dr. Finn Boson - Risk Management GRC Analyst, Busey Dr. Nicole Reiz - Director of Professional Development, University of Kansas Careers in Public Service November 16, 2021 3:00 PM - 4:00 PM Take your passion and make it your purpose--no matter your major! Beyond KU | Careers in Public Service hopes to demonstrate how you can take your passion for government and politics and translate that into a career! This is a virtual event! Panelists Julia Groblacher – Foreign Service Officer – U.S. Department of State After graduating from KU in 2010, Julia received her Masters in Public Policy from the Harvard JFK School of Government. Since entering the Foreign Service in 2012, Julia has served domestically on the Syria and Afghanistan desks, and overseas at the U.S. embassies in Moscow, Baghdad, and Kabul. She most recently served as a member of Deputy Secretary Wendy Sherman's staff, responsible for the Middle East, counterterrorism, cybersecurity, and tech. She will soon depart for U.S. Embassy Beirut. Marc Langston – Attorney, Strategic Team Advising Research – U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Marc Langston is a Wichita native and KU alumnus ('08) with bachelor’s degrees in political science and art history. He attended law school at Wake Forest University and spent the last decade working as an attorney in Washington, DC. Marc's legal experience includes a variety of positions in both the public and private sectors. Eric Pahls – Vice President – Big Dog Strategies Eric Pahls is a proud native Kansan who served as Campaign Manager for Dr. Roger Marshall’s successful 2020 U.S. Senate Campaign. Prior to 2020, he served as businesswoman Carly Fiorina’s Communications Director, and as the youngest Press Secretary on Capitol Hill after working on Dr. Marshall’s successful 2016 Congressional campaign, which notably unseated the incumbent in a primary. Eric is a graduate of the University of Kansas' William Allen White School of Journalism and Mass Communications, and lives in Kansas City, Kansas. Adam Steinhilber – Judicial Law Clerk – Indiana Supreme Court Adam Steinhilber is an attorney and law clerk to the Honorable Mark S. Massa of the Indiana Supreme Court. He earned his J.D., magna cum laude, from the University of Michigan Law School. He earned his B.A. in Political Science from the University of Kansas, where he proudly served as the Events Student Assistant at the Dole Institute of Politics. Careers with Roots; Ecology, Nature & Food Systems September 22, 2021 3:00 PM - 4:00 PM Do you have a green thumb? Have you dreamed of getting to spend all your time in nature, but you aren’t sure where to begin? Take your passion and make it your purpose--no matter your major! Beyond KU | Careers with Roots; Ecology, Nature, and Food Systems hopes to demonstrate how you can take your passion for things that grow and grow it into a career! Panelists Becky Harpstrite – Vice President of Marketing, VG Food & Beverage Group and Hilary’s Eat Well Zac Hoppenstedt – Horticulture Agent, K-State Research and Extension Emily Lysen - Director of Development, Lawrence Farmers Market Courtney Masterson – Ecologist, For the Prairie Jasmin Moore – Sustainability Director, Douglas County Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.