Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Employers The University Career Center offers a wide arrange of services for employers to connect with KU students! Employers may participate in career fairs, post jobs and internships in HireJayhawks.com, conduct on-campus interviews, and more! Employer Resources If you would like more information about connecting with KU students, please contact Ann Hartley: 785-864-4517. Our services are available to all KU students. Our primary mission is service to students in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and the schools of Architecture, Education and Social Welfare. Separate career centers are maintained for students in Business, Engineering, Journalism, Law. and Music. UCC, Business, Engineering, Music and Journalism share a common recruiting database that includes resumes of students and alumni, current career opportunities posted by employers/recruiters and career center staff, part-time jobs and internships. Employer Resources During COVID-19: Tools, tips, resources and information for providing remote jobs and internships. Are you interested in learning more about how you can connect to KU students? Complete this brief employer partner form, and we will follow up with ideas on how to get involved on campus and maximize your recruiting efforts! Employer Resources KACE NACE Become an Employer Partner Employer Recruiting Guide DOL Unpaid Internship Guide Starting an Internship Program Kansas Micro-Internship Program Frequently Asked Questions How can the career center assist employers with COVID-19 implications during their job and internship searches? Click to expand We are open for business and here to help you connect with KU students. We encourage you to post your jobs and internships on HireJayhawks. We promote this site to all KU students to help them find opportunities. If you need assistance with your postings, please reach out to contact us. If you have summer internships, we hope that you will be able to convert them to remote experiences. This may involve changing your expectations or re-aligning your plans while still providing a meaningful experience for the student intern. Please keep us informed of your plans for your summer internships and let us know if we can assist you in any way. If your organization is hosting a virtual recruiting event, send us the information and we will share it with students. While we are not offering campus interviewing at this time, we hope that you will consider conducting video interviews with your candidates. If you would like to set up a virtual information session, or have other ideas for creatively connecting with students, please let us know. The following resources may be helpful to you as you adapt to recruiting, hiring and managing virtually. Internships There are a number of best practices for employers to consider and implement when converting an internship program to a remote experience. These could include using a project-based approach to assignments, getting manager support, and engaging interns in informal mentoring and networking. The following are resources for creating or converting your internships to virtual experiences: Tips for bringing your internship program remote in the midst of COVID: Tips from Parker Dewey on implementing best practices for hiring and hosting remote interns. Micro-Internships for the University of Kansas: KU page for Parker Dewey with employer information on creating micro-internships. Top Perks for interns can be adapted for virtual workplace: Students want meetings with senior leadership, professional development, skills training and project presentation to management. This article from NACE – National Association of Colleges and Employers, discusses how to incorporate the perks interns want in their internships. Communication, Connection Keys for High-Quality Remote Internships: Highlights of an employer who is providing high quality work experiences, effective intern communication and virtual networking opportunities. (NACE) What to do about internships in light of the COVID-19 pandemic? A short guide to online internships for colleges, students, and employers: A ten-page document created by the University of Wisconsin has information concerning what prospective interns and employers can do to continue to provide internships this spring and summer. Considerations for remote internships: What makes remote internships different, creating psychological safety, hiring remote interns and managing expectations are discussed in this article from GitLab. Best Practices for Creating a Successful Virtual Internship: Designing a virtual internship, and onboarding and managing interns remotely are explained in this article by Harvard Business School. Long-term effects of canceling a summer internship program by rescinding job offers: College Recruiter discusses employer pipelines for future employees and future leaders in organizations and company branding through internships in this YouTube video Recruiting Recruiting can look different when done remotely rather than in-person or on-campus. These are some resources that discuss virtual recruitment strategies, creating a virtual presence, and planning for a post-coronavirus world. Virtual Recruiting: Creating a Presence Without Being Present: This employer highlight from NACE discusses how one organization has personalized the virtual recruiting process and succeeded in hiring as many candidates using remote tactics as their on-campus recruiting strategies. Recruitment planning in a post-coronavirus world: In this overview from Monster.com, both short term and long term strategies are discussed for implementing remote recruiting strategies. Get your message right: Considerations for you COVID-19 employer brand strategy: It is important for employers to build and maintain relationships while recruiting current and future hires. This article from Indeed.com focuses on messaging and its potential impact on your brand during the COVID-19 crisis. Virtual tools employers can use to communicate their culture, mission, vision and values: A YouTube discussion from College Recruiter about using Slack channels to share information and “over” communicate with employees. Interviewing While the current climate calls for limiting face-to-face contact, employers are continuing to meet and hire candidates successfully using technology for remote meetings and communication. These are some resources to help you provide better virtual interviews while recruiting. Job interviews go virtual in response to COVID19: An overview of best practices for conducting interviews through videoconferencing including preparation, setting expectations and checking your technology, from the Society for Human Resource Management SHRM. Best Practices for Virtual Interviews: In this article from Indeed.com, learn how to prepare for a virtual interview and how to conduct a virtual interview successfully. Virtual interview resources: Did you know that 57% of candidates prefer live video interviews? This article from Motion Recruitment shares a list of resources from companies on how they are conducting virtual interviews, and a comprehensive list of virtual interviewing resources How to conduct a video interview: A list of practical tips on how to conduct a virtual interview from set up to follow up. Working Remotely During the current COVID-19 pandemic, many employers are moving to a remote work force options for employees. These are resources that provide information on moving to a remote workplace and managing your employees virtually. Navigating to a remote workforce during the COVID-19 outbreak: This step-by step guide from Indeeed.com discusses steps for making the move to remote work, from collaborating with managers and teams to choosing remotes tools. Included are tips for keeping your organization running and supporting employees work-life balance. Strategies for staying connected in the time of COVID-19: This article focuses on fostering a sense of connectedness while working remotely, including suggestions for scheduling Q&A, keeping everyone updated, getting the tone right, and helping employees adjust to working remotely. (Indeed.com) Setting remote workers up for success: A recent survey by Indeed.com found that the majority of employees and employers feel remote work leads to increased productivity. Employers can learn to avoid isolation and miscommunication by communicating strategically, setting clear expectations and personalizing the remote work experience. How to manage your team during a crisis: Straightforward advice and suggestions for managing a team during stressful times from Monster.com Technology eases transition for new remote workers: Expert advice about software, data security practices and "group cohesion" techniques that employers can apply to ease the transition and ensure that workers remain productive and engaged. (SHRM Society for Human Resource Management) With over 300,000 HR and business executive member in 165 countries, the Society of Human Resource Management (SHRM) is the foremost expert, convener and thought leader on issues impacting today’s evolving workplaces. These are some of their resources for responding to the coronavirus in the workplace. New CDC guidance for employers reflects evolving knowledge of Coronavirus Answers to the most common Coronavirus questions COVID19 Government Response and Resources During COVID19, How do you minimize employee claims risk? State & local updates How can I post Jobs and internships through KU? Click to expand HireJayhawks Registration New employers may register through HireJayhawks. Allow up to one business day for account activation. Unable to register? Contact us at kucareer@ku.edu to request access. Please note: The KU School of Law has a job posting site. This is the website to use for law positions. If you already have an account for HireJayhawks (formerly KU Career Connections), your username is your e-mail address. Forgot your password? Select the "Forgot My Password" tab to have it emailed to you.> To post a job or internship, select “Create Job Posting” under the Job & Internships heading. To post a position for an on-campus interview, go to OCR on the main menu (left side of screen) and select “positions”. If you are recruiting for a position at a campus career fair, go to Jobs on the main menu and select “CF Jobs”. Third-party recruiters may post positions for employment candidates, but must inform one of the Career Services offices of the actual employer and position before the job will be posted. Principals for Professional Practice KU Career Services asks that all employers that wish to recruit at KU adhere to the Principals for Professional Practice produced by the National Association of Colleges and Employers. KU Career Services reserves the right to refuse any job posting. Job postings that may be declined typically contain one or more of the following elements or circumstances: requiring at the time of application personal information such as bank account and social security numbers; misrepresentation by dishonest information, misleading or ambiguous information or absence of information; email accounts such as yahoo and gmail that are not affiliated with the hiring organization; P.O. Box addresses; positions not likely to be of interest to college students or alumni as they are attaining or hold post-secondary or graduate degrees; fraud; harassment of students, alumni, or staff by the employer; complaints have been filed against the employer by students, alumni, or staff breach of confidentiality; requiring a financial investment or payment by the student or alumni positions that may involve unreasonable physical risks, where known; failure to adhere to these Career Center policies and/or any violation of rules and regulations, and local, state, and federal laws How can I schedule on-campus interviews? Click to expand On-Campus Interviews The University Career Center provides your organization with professional on-campus recruiting opportunities. You may list career opportunities, internships and part-time jobs through our online recruiting system, HireJayhawks. Qualified employers will receive access to our student resume database for web resume viewing. We also will assist you with resume referrals based on your criteria. We provide professional interview rooms for your on-campus interviews in our facility. Allow three weeks advance notice so that we have ample time to promote your opportunity to students. To reserve space, call Ann Hartley at 785-864-4517, or email ahartley@ku.edu. Email your job description to us, or post the position on HireJayhawks.com. Students who you wish to interview will contact you directly and you will arrange interview times with them. About a week before the interview, we will contact you to confirm the interviews and send you parking instructions. Interview and presentation facilities arranged by UCC are to be used solely to speak with students from the University of Kansas who are eligible for services from UCC or one of the other career service offices. UCC is committed to ensuring that everyone is afforded the opportunity to participate in our services and activities. If, due to disability, you require accommodation to use our services, please contact our office at 785-864-3624 and let us know how we may assist you. Our current location for employers is 203 Summerfield Hall. Interview suite rooms are located on the first floor of Summerfield. What are the recruiting policies and procedures? Click to expand Welcome to recruiting at the University of Kansas! We are here to help you connect with our students and build your employment pipeline. KU Career Services asks all employers recruiting at KU to adhere to the Principles for Professional Practice produced by the National Association of Colleges and Employers. Basic Tips for Ethical Recruitment KU Career Services is committed to maintaining a recruiting process that is fair and equitable to students and employing organizations. EEO policy requires that all professional employment opportunities (internships, co-op and full-time) must be made available to students/alumni within HireJayhawks. This practice ensures compliance with NACE guidelines as well as federal law. Furthermore, KU career services staff and university faculty will not pre-screen or recommend candidates for any company, as such action would subject us to laws governing employment agencies. All employers must be legitimate organizations with verifiable business name, email address, phone number, website, and a contact. Recruiters must be transparent with career services about their recruiting activities and the information provided to students. Falsifying information about opportunities or compensation will not be tolerated. Complaints will be investigated and may result in discontinuation of employer services. Classroom engagement can provide value to students when coordinated in advance. Your career services office can help you identify and target appropriate faculty for a classroom visit, based on the content of your proposed presentation. Employers are strongly discouraged from dropping in unannounced to classrooms in order to promote their opportunities. KU Career Services suggests you avoid serving alcohol at recruitment events since students attending may be under the legal drinking age. In accordance with Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Equal Pay Act of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, Executive Order ll246, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Americans with Disabilities Act, the Vietnam Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act, Kansas Acts Against Discrimination and all other applicable civil rights and nondiscriminatory statutes, the University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, parental status and veterans status. Third-Party Recruiters Third-party recruiters are defined here as organizations or individuals recruiting candidates for opportunities other than for their own needs. These agencies must identify to the career center the organization on behalf of whom they are hiring. Third-party recruiters must identify themselves as such in any job postings as well as in their profile at HireJayhawks.com. We will not post positions that require payment of any type by the candidate.  The University of Kansas Career Services reserves the right to refuse service to a third-party recruiter. Please see the following guidelines for service: Third-party recruiters may only be granted resume book access if hiring for one specific, named company. Third-party recruiters may only attend career fairs if hiring for one specific, named company Job posting must be transparent that it’s a third party recruiting organization representing a client, and the client must be specified in the posting (either listed by name or with some industry/location context)  We allow some third party companies to re-post jobs to our system. These companies are paid by recruiting organizations to generate a broader candidate pool beyond those schools where they have a core recruiting presence. This scenario is a bit unique from the third-party or staffing company context. In these instances, the roles we elect to post are vetted opportunities with strong companies, usually with a broadened geographic focus.  In every instance, the fee is paid by the employer to the third party. Students are never asked to pay a fee for anything that is posted in our system. Generally, the third party is not being retained by the employer to hire for roles for which the employer is also engaged with direct recruiting on campus.  In rare instances, we have third party groups that are hiring for internal roles. In some cases, the entire recruiting function has been outsourced to an external or third party agency. In these instances, they are branding themselves as their client when they are present on campus.  If you have questions about your company’s status as a third-party recruiter, please contact the relevant career services office for guidance specific to your situation. Job Postings Posting open positions through HireJayhawks.com can improve your chances of connecting with our students, and help you build your brand on campus. It’s easy to sign up for a free account at HireJayhawks. Once approved, you can post positions and have students apply through the site, or through your own CRM. Position Description Guidelines Position Descriptions that provide sufficient details and relevant information will attract more attention from students. If your posted position on HireJayhawks.com is not receiving applicants, you may be able to improve results by reviewing the description and making modifications to it. When posting your positions for either full-time career positions or student internships, keep the following in mind: Include a description of your organization and/or its purpose. Let students know what they can expect to learn in the position Explain who the employee/intern will be working with, both inside the organization and outside of it. Include information on the training provided Offer information on special benefits or opportunities during employment, such as attending meetings, flexible schedule, travel, etc. Some suggestions for making your description more compelling (from WetFeet, Indeed, Recruiterbox): Find a balance between providing enough details so that students understand the job/internship, while also keeping your description concise and easy to read. Keep it simple and avoid jargon. In the brief summary of your organization, include details on what makes your culture unique, or why do people want to work for you. Do you offer perks such as flextime, on-site gym, etc. Make your job/internship title specific – targeted job titles are more effective than generic ones. Don’t use titles that seem to inflate or are euphemistic. Focus on rewards and what the position offers, such as intellectual challenges or earning potential. Candidates need to know what they would gain from the position. Include enough details in the responsibilities that students understand the work environment and the activities they would engage in on a daily basis. Detail the technical skills and include soft skills (communication, problem solving) as well as personality traits that a successful candidate would possess. Some employers set a GPA requirement as part of their job posting. However, this can actually exclude qualified candidates. When considering whether to use GPA as a screening tool, consider the following: Use of GPA as a screening tool could be subject to non-discrimination laws. If you are asking for GPA as part of your screening, it should be related to the job and necessary for its performance. This fact sheet from the EEOC may be helpful in deciding whether to use GPA to assess candidates. A GPA does not consider a candidate’s pursuit of self-guided learning or skill acquired through hands-on projects, volunteerism, extracurricular activities or internship/work experience. How does the candidate’s GPA compare with their school’s average? A 3.5 may mean something different depending on the institution. While a high GPA may indicate an individual has high ability in learning, it does not account for the impact of hard work on success. KU Career Services has the right to decline any job posting. Job postings that may be declined typically contain one or more of the following elements or circumstances: Requiring at the time of application personal information such as bank account and social security numbers; Misrepresentation by dishonest information, misleading or ambiguous information or absence of information; Email accounts such as Yahoo and Gmail that are not affiliated with the hiring organization; P.O. Box addresses; Positions not likely to be of interest to college students or alumni as they are attaining or hold post-secondary or graduate degrees; Harassment of students, alumni, or staff by the employer; Complaints have been filed against the employer by students, alumni, or staff Breach of confidentiality; Requiring a financial investment or payment by the student or alumni Positions that may involve unreasonable physical risks, where known;   Failure to adhere to these Career Center policies and/or any violation of rules and regulations, and local, state, and federal laws Resume Book Access Resume books can be an effective tool for employers when used in tandem with other recruiting efforts. Employers who have an approved, active account in HireJayhawks.com can request resume book access from their career services office. An active account will show job postings, information sessions, career fair participation, or other recruitment activity at KU. Employers utilizing resume books as part of their recruitment strategy are encouraged to: Be intentional about reaching out. Students receive a lot of email, and mass emailing them or emailing to often may dilute your message, or worse, leave it unread. For the best success, only reach out to students who you feel fit your needs. Utilize the service for active hiring. Stockpiled resumes can quickly become outdated, and students may move on to other opportunities. Using resume books for active hiring improves your chances for connecting with candidates who are actively seeking employment. Know your audience. Most students in HireJayhawks.com are seeking internships or a full-time, post-graduation position that require a Bachelor’s or Master’s degree. Keep it confidential. To maintain the utmost confidentiality of student information, employment professional are not permitted to disclose any student information to another organization without the written consent of the student. Job Offer Guidelines Employers should communicate final hiring decisions within a reasonable time frame, and this time frame should be outlined during the interview process. Employers must give a student adequate time to consider an offer. A minimum of 2 weeks is customary and allows the student time to make an informed, confident decision. Exploding offers (offers that do not afford a candidate the appropriate time to either accept or decline) are not permitted in recruitment activity at KU. Employers are to avoid undue pressure when making a job offer. Employers making full-time offers at the conclusion of an internship should allow students to participate in fall on-campus recruitment events before communicating their decision. This provides time to explore all options and encourages a well-informed, confident choice. Employers should never encourage a student to renege on a previously accepted employment offer. This behavior is unethical and will result in restricted access to our recruitment services and students. If an offer must be rescinded from the employer, for any reason, we ask that you contact our office before taking action with the student. We will prepare to offer services and support in this potentially devastating situation. If making an offer contingent on security clearance, background check or drug tests, students should be given a timeline for the completion of such screenings and notified if their offer is being rescinded due to the results. Get more guidance on offer timelines from NACE. Guidelines for hiring international students Many international students are qualified to work in the United States as interns, as well as hold full-time positions for up to three years following graduation, depending on their major. KU Career Services encourages you to consider the unique assets that international candidates may contribute to your organization, such as language skills and cultural knowledge. Most students studying at KU are here on F-1 (foreign exchange) visas. They are permitted a period of practical work experience during or upon completion of their degree programs. This allows a company to assess the employee’s qualifications without sponsorship or completing any special filings or paperwork. Work is categorized under two programs: Optional Practical Training (OPT) allows F-1 students who have been enrolled full-time for two consecutive semesters to work up to 12 months in a job directly related to their major. Most students use OPT after they graduate to begin full-time work in the U.S., though it can be used part-time prior to graduation. Students in STEM majors can apply to extend their OPT for up to 24 months for a total of 36 months of work eligibility. Visit ISS for additional information. Curricular Practical Training (CPT) allows F-1 students who have been enrolled full-time for two consecutive semesters to work part-time in a position that is required or an integral part of their program. CPT must be used prior to degree completion, students must receive credit for the experience, and it must count toward degree requirements. Work can be full or part-time, but students have to remain enrolled full-time during the fall and spring semesters. Visit ISS for more information. When a company decided to continue the international graduate’s employment after the practical training period, a change in status to an H-1B visa is required at least several months before the practical training period ends. This provides an additional 3-6 years of employment with the company that files the petition. Applications are submitted by the employing organization to the local Department of Labor. There is a limit on the number of H-1B visas granted annually so a strong case must be provided for approval. Interviewing Guidelines When interviewing international students, remember it is illegal to ask about an applicant’s immigration status, age, nationality, or marital status. It is permissible to ask whether an applicant has authorization to work in the U.S., and whether the applicant will need visa sponsorship now or in the future. What is the Kansas Work Study Program? Click to expand The Kansas Work-Study Program (Career Component) is funded by the State of Kansas, through the Board of Regents. The purpose of the program is to help Kansas employers hire university students to work in career-related positions. The student benefits by gaining work experience that enhances the student’s academic program. The employer benefits by being reimbursed for one half of the student’s gross wages. To participate in the Kansas Career Work-Study Program, employers must meet the following criteria: Have a FEIN (Federal Employee Identification Number) Be a Kansas business using a Kansas bank Be willing to act as the student's employer (students are not employed by our office) Employers are responsible for interviewing and hiring eligible students. Before signing a KCWS contract, the employer must employ or be in the process of hiring an eligible student. Employers may advertise part-time positions for students in HireJayhawks. The amount of the contract is based on the student's hourly wage, the estimated hours per week that the student will work, and the number of weeks that the student will work; Fifty percent of this amount will be reimbursed to the employer; If the estimate is too low, an amendment may be granted if funds are available. Employers must submit invoices to KCWS at least once a month. It can take up to four weeks for the reimbursement check to arrive - it is to the employer's benefit to submit invoices in a timely manner KCWS Employer Application If you have further questions about Kansas Career Work-Study, please contact us at (785) 864-7664 or kswkstd@ku.edu. Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.