Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Helpful Tips and References You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Labor and Employee Relations Helpful Tips and References About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Contents Introductory Period of EmploymentProgressive DisciplineFlexible Working ArrangementsRemote Work PolicyWeingarten RightsSeparation From the UniversityTermination/Separation ProcessUnemployment CompensationContact Us Introductory Period of Employment New employees will have an introductory period. The introductory period is a time for when a new employee gets accustomed to their position or new role and the expectations of their supervisor. The supervisor will evaluate and provide appropriate feedbacks to ensure a successful completion of the introductory period. During this time, employees are considered “at will". The length of the introductory period varies according to the employee classification. Progressive Discipline Temple University's Rules of Conduct provides a progressive discipline process. The goal of discipline is to provide feedback on unacceptable behavior and improve performance, not to punish the employee. Guidelines supervisors should consider the following before disciplining employees. Thoroughly investigate the situation, which includes obtaining the employee’s explanation or response prior to administering discipline. Document the process and results of your investigation. Review the employee’s employment history, including years of service, discipline record and PDP. Be consistent with the level of discipline given. If there are any concerns about the discipline process, contact the Labor and Employee Relations team at 215-926-2290. Flexible Work Arrangements Departments may choose to allow Flexible Work Arrangements (FWA) for employees in roles conducive to alternative scheduling. Flexible work can come in many forms including remote or hybrid work and compressed work weeks. University guidelines allow departments to create an approach that works best to accommodate their employees while ensuring a high level of service and productivity as well as compliance with university policies. The decision to offer alternative work arrangements is in the sole discretion of departments, schools and colleges. Supervisors who are considering offering flexible assignments should review the following documents and ensure that their processes and decisions are aligned with the guidance. Flexible Working Arrangement Guidelines: School/College/Department Template Flexible Working Arrangement: Sample Questionnaire Request Flexible Working Arrangement and Agreement: Sample The documents are accessible via the University Forms channel under the Staff Tools tab in TUportal. Using the search function, you can search by form name, office, department, school/college and/or category. Learn more about the University's flexible work arrangements policy. Remote Work Policy Temple University supports remote working where there is an operational need, or there is potential for center savings. This policy applies to all employees. All employees who telecommute must have an approved Remote Work Agreement form on file with Human Resources. Learn more about the University's remote work policy. Weingarten Rights The right to union representation known as Weingarten Rights affords a union-represented employee with the right to union representation when attending an investigatory interview that might result in discipline. If representation is requested, allow reasonable time to secure that representation prior to conducting the meeting. Failure to do so is considered an unfair labor practice. If the employee has trouble locating a representative, Labor and Employee Relations can assist. Separation From the University Voluntary Separation When an employee resigns, the department should forward the resignation letter or email to Labor and Employee Relations. The department can also attach the letter when submitting the termination Electronic Personnel Action Form (EPAF). The department should gather all Temple property and remind the employee to participate in an exit interview either by fax or via TUportal. Involuntary Separation The Rules of Conduct provides guidance on what offenses may warrant termination, but is not all inclusive. The termination of an employee in a bargaining unit requires just cause. Prior to terminating an employee, the Rules of Conduct and Labor and Employee Relations must be consulted. An employee terminated for cause will be issued a disciplinary report (bargaining unit employee) stating the work rule violated or a memo (nonbargaining employee) stating why they were terminated and the work rule violated. The department must follow the termination checklist for exiting the employee. A copy of the discipline letter should be forwarded to Labor and Employee Relations. The department must collect/retrieve all Temple University property including, but not limited to: keys, phones, OWLcard, credit and purchase cards, and electronic equipment and digital devices (e.g., computers, laptops, tablets, etc.). If computer access needs to be terminated immediately, send a request to Labor and Employee Relation at 215-926-2290 or elrel@temple.edu. EPAF All terminations must be submitted through an electronic workflow called EPAF. If you need assistance, call 215-926-2290, email elrel@temple.edu, or submit a help ticket. If any employee is terminated prior to an existing termination date such as an adjunct faculty, Labor and Employee Relations must be notified directly via email at elrel@temple.edu. In this instance, the EPAF process cannot be used. Termination/Separation Process When an employee is separating from Temple University, the termination checklist should be followed. This ensures that the separation process is properly completed. During the separation process, please encourage the employee to complete the voluntary online exit questionnaire. If the employee prefers, an in-person meeting can be set up with Labor and Employee Relations. To access the termination checklist, login and navigate to TUportal > Staff Tool tab > University Forms channel. Using the search function, you can search by form name, office, department, school/college and/or category. Unemployment Compensation Under certain circumstances, an employee separating from the university may qualify for unemployment compensation. Temple University is required by the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry to provide employment documentation used to determine eligibility. Eligibility and receipt of unemployment compensation benefits are completely determined by the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry; therefore, Temple does not determine if the employee will be granted unemployment compensation. Employees who engage in willful misconduct and/or are unemployed through fault of their own will not receive unemployment compensation. To Apply To apply for unemployment compensation, contact the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry and/or reach out to their local Philadelphia office. Address information for unemployment office in Philadelphia Philadelphia Unemployment Compensation Service Center Philadelphia UC Service Center 2901 Grant Ave., Philadelphia, PA 19114-1069 Phone #: 215-856-6990 | Toll Free #: 1-800-313-6981 | Fax #: (215) 560-6981 | Toll Free TTY #: 1 (888) 334-4046 Contact Us If you have any questions, call 215-926-2290 or email elrel@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.