Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries internship programs UPIC On-Campus Internships departments / mentors online application form reimbursement request form students UPIC internship postings UPIC HR and Payroll Training UPIC Program Informational Video contact us International Internship Program Off-Campus Internship Program students students faq's employers Contact Us Micro Internship Program Internships and COVID-19 FAQ COVID-19 Virtual Services Off-campus Internship Program Student FAQ's Click a question to see the answer! How will an internship affect my financial aid If you are registered for INT 1010 / 1020 / 1030 or INT 2010 / 2020 / 2030 it is possible to save your LIFE Scholarship or other financial aid while your complete your internship experience. It is your responsibility to discuss this with the financial aid office prior to your internship experience. Learn more about Career Center Internship Class (INT) Financial Aid Office SC Life Scholarship Information Palmetto Fellows Scholarship Information Am I eligible for an internship? All students are eligible to complete an internship. Most companies look to hire rising juniors and seniors, but a rising sophomore with experience is also a strong candidate. All students are encouraged to apply for internships. Will I be paid for my internship? In a recent study, National Association of Colleges and Employers found that 92% of internships are paid. The pay rate will depend on your experience, position, and the individual company. Many internships in non-profit, teaching, or service industries are un-paid. For these experiences, possibly seek out internships with a grant to cover your stipend. When should I complete an internship? An internship can be completed during fall, spring, or summer semesters. When to complete an internship and for how long should be determined by your individual career goals, financial situation, and academic standing. Will I be provided housing for an internship? Some employers will provide housing free of charge, others will help connect you with fellow interns to find an apartment in the area. There is no easy answer because level of involvement in finding housing varies from employer to employer. For more information on finding housing, visit our page on internship resources. Where can I go for more help with the internship process? Visit us at the Center for Career and Professional Development! 316 Hendrix Student Center (864) 656-6000 Contact Info Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift