Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries michelin career center Ask us a Question career development CU 1200 Class career counseling services majors and careers is graduate school for you Newly Accepted Students online workshops our handouts job search career fairs ClemsonJobLink diversity resources find a job job search tools and links interview resources resumes and cover Letters salary & job offer resources safeguard your job search job search scams our handouts career closet graduate student resources employer services corporate partner program recruiting information Company Connections Career Fairs and Events resources directions contact our team parent and family resources Our Career Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Core Competencies COVID-19 Virtual Services Career Development & Recruiting Diversity Resources We have provided these resources that offer a range of subjects including connecting with employers, preparing for interviews, and understanding organizational culture. Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) is a term used to describe programs and policies that encourages representation and participation of diverse groupsof people, including people of different genders, races and ethnicities, abilities and disabilities, religions, cultures, ages, andsexual orientations and people with diverse backgrounds, experiences, and skills and expertise. General Information www.southcarolinadiversity.com - An online network for South Carolina jobs and careers - connecting the most progressive companies with the most qualified diverse work force. LGBTQ+ Resources Human Rights Campaign Resources - A national source of information on workplace policies and laws surrounding sexual orientation and gender identity. Job seekers can use HRC WorkNet to do research on prospective employers by name, policy type, geographic region, or industry. Out and Equal - Out and Equal is the premier organization working exclusively on LGBTQ+ workplace equality. StartOut - StartOut connects and educates LGBTQ entrepreneurs to empower great leaders and businesses. Our goal is to create jobs and prosperity for LGBTQ individuals and for the local communities in which they do business, and to be recognized and respected for our contributions. Pride At Work - Pride At Work is a nonprofit organization that represents LGBTQ union members and their allies. We are an officially recognized constituency group of the AFL-CIO (American Federation of Labor and Congress ofIndustrial Organizations) that organizes mutual support between the organized Labor Movement and the LGBTQ Community to further social and economic justice. LGBTQ+ Entrepreneur Toolkit - 100+ Free Resources & Digital Marketing Tips. Women Resources Women for Hire - Founded in 1999 as the first and only company devoted to a comprehensive array of recruitment services for women,Women For Hire offers online career fairs, inspiring speeches and seminars, and customized marketing programs. Our website, womenforhire.com, offers a wide variety of career-related information and videos geared to working women, and an online job board that helps leading employers connect with top-notch professional women in all fields. Feminist MaJority Foundation - Career Center - The Feminist Majority Foundation (FMF), which was founded in 1987, is a cutting edge organization dedicated to women’s equality, reproductive health, and non-violence. In all spheres, FMF utilizes research and action to empower women economically, socially, and politically. Our organization believes that feminists of all genders are the majority, but thismajority must be empowered. Women in Higher Education - This website provides women on campus with practical ideas and insights to be more effective in their careers and lives. The goal is to enlighten, encourage, empower, and enrage women on campus as well as to win the acceptance of women in higher education and our larger culture. Women Employed Institute - This resource serves as an information exchange and action network for women. Multicultural Identity Resources IMDiversity - Dedicated to providing career and self-development information to all multicultural identities (African American, Asian American, LatinX, Native American, etc.) Provides you with access to the largest database of equal opportunity employers committed to workplace diversity. Corporate Minority - Professional career resource site dedicated to providing minority groups the essential resources needed to begin and advance their professional careers. Jopwell - The leading career advancement platform for Black, LatinX, and Native American students and professionals. Minority Professional Network Career Resources - Career Development and enhancement resource for minorities including job postings, resume development, and career events. National Urban League - The National Urban League works to provide economic empowerment, educational opportunities and the guarantee of civil rights for the underserved in America. Hispanic Alliance for Career Enhancement (HACE) - Dedicated to the employment, development, and advancement of current and aspiringLatino professionals. DiversityInc - Feature career advice, job listings, and information about diverse companies International and Undocumented Student Resources U.S. Citizenship and Immigration - Learn more about laws and regulations regarding immigration and naturalization. H-1B Program - This website provides you more information about the H-1B program which allows companies and other employers in the US to temporarily employ foreign workers. GoinGlobal - This website helps people find opportunities both at home or abroad. Additionally provides career guides for jobs/internships at home or abroad. National Immigration Center - DACA Workplace Rights Individuals with Disabilities Resources ADA - U.S. Department of Justice Americans with DisabilitiesAct (ADA) National Organization on Disability (NOD) - The NOD increases employment opportunities for Americans with disabilities. Our programs and services enable companies to realize the competitive advantages of hiring peoplewith disabilities. Americans with Disabilities Resources - Provides resources for Americans with disabilities Job Accommodation Network (JAN) - The leading source of free, expert, and confidential guidance on job accommodations and disability employment issues. Employer Assistance and Resource Network on Disability Inclusion (EARN) - Free resources that helps employers tap the benefits of disability diversity by educating public and private sector organizations on ways to build inclusive workplace cultures. Opportunities PowerToFly - PowerToFly is a recruitment platform focused on connecting companies with women who are looking for employers who value diversity. The platform provides companies with access to a database of top female talent. The goal of theapp is to help organizations reduce recruitment costs and tap into an underutilized pool of quality candidates. The Consortium for Graduate Study in Management - a consortium that awards 200 full fellowships annually to students of color seekingadvancement in the business field. This year the Consortium will offer 400 full fellowships to students who qualify for study at one of the member schools. Medical Minority Applicant Registry (Med-MAR) - Med-MAR was created to enhance admission opportunities for groups historically underrepresented in medicine. Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Feminist Majority Internship Directory Inroads Reachingoutmba.org - An LGBT MBA student lead resource for LGBT students with lots of information about employers and support networks. National Association of Asian American Professionals-(NAAAP) - Promotes personal and professional development of the Asian American community Playlist Center for Career and Professional Development Diversity and Inclusion Workshop Series Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift