Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Careers at Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Academic Jobs Staff Jobs Student Jobs How to Apply Your Invitation Careers at Columbia You are here: Home How to Apply for Jobs How to Apply for Jobs Faculty and staff career opportunities at Columbia University are posted online. You apply and track applications for open positions using our online job boards. Follow the instructions to search and apply for jobs, create a profile, and manage your application. Please note: You must meet all minimum requirements listed, fill out all requested information and attach documents for a submission to be complete. For additional job search assistance, contact the Columbia Employment Information Center. Expand all Collapse all Applying for Jobs Online Academic Jobs On June 7, 2021, Columbia University introduced a new academic hiring system, Academic Search and Recruiting (ASR), powered by Interfolio Faculty Search. Search for job postings created prior to June 7, 2021 Search for job postings created on June 7, 2021 and after Applicants will be instructed to create an Interfolio Dossier account in order to apply for a position. If you need assistance, visit Interfolio How to Apply for a Position. Staff Jobs 1. Search for Jobs Visit the Career Opportunities page for Administrative or Support Staff positions. You can search current openings for regular full-time or part-time, non-instructional positions at all Columbia University campus locations. Use the search filters on the right to narrow your search. Click on the Position title to see the full description. 2. Apply If you wish to apply for a job, click "Apply" when viewing the posting. You must meet all minimum stated qualifications. Click to read the Privacy Statement and then select the checkbox to confirm you have read it. The "Next" button will be disabled until you have indicated your acceptance. Enter your e-mail address. This address will be used throughout the application process for communication between you and the recruitment team, as well as for system-generated reminders and alerts. Note: If you have previously applied using the same email address, you will be presented with a screen asking you to enter your password. Click "Next." The Save time on your application screen displays; the system allows you to upload a resume from a file on your computer or from a Dropbox or Google Drive account. You can also fill in some of the application using your Facebook profile if you choose. By uploading your resume or profile, you will save time filling out the application. Your application will prepopulate with the information from your resume or Facebook profie. Follow the instructions and fill out all fields. This process takes approximately five to 10 minutes. Note: If this is your first time completing an application, you will be asked to create a password. Be sure to write down the email address and password since you will need this later to be able to view the status of your application and update your profile. Once you have completed all the application form questions, you will have the opportunity to preview your application answers before submitting. Click "Submit Application." Once submitted, click "Close Window" and return to the Career Opportunities page. 3. Applicant Profile When you apply for a job, an applicant profile is created. The profile contains the details from your application--including contact information, education and employment. This can be updated at any time. This applicant profile can then be used to apply to other jobs without having to enter all of your personal information again. 4. Tracking Applications in the Applicant Portal Use your username and password to log into the Applicant Portal to check the status of all your applications, update your profile, add references or withdraw an application. You can update your resume in the Applicant Portal as well. Support Columbia Employment Information Center The Center helps in your job search by providing support using Columbia's online application systems, one-on-one consultations, job preparedness workshops and other applicant trainings. 3180 Broadway (near 125th Street) 212-851-1551 [email protected] Open Monday - Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Note: Please arrive prior to 4:00 p.m. if you wish to complete an online application. Medical Center Human Resources CUIMC Human Resources 617 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 (212) 305-3819 Phone [email protected] Open Monday - Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Careers Home Disability Accommodations Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities who can perform the essential functions of the position. If need a reasonable accommodation for any part of the application and hiring process, please email us. Decisions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close