Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries About Us Ask us a Question Contact Us Staff Directory Org Chart Corporate Partners Data and Analytics Directions to the CCPD Our Career Ambassadors Our Co-op Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Privacy Policy COVID-19 Virtual Services cooperative education internship programs Michelin Career Center Career Development and Job Search Parent and Family Resources Employer Services Vanguard In 1975, a small?but uniquely structured?mutual fund company came into being. More than a quarter-century later, Vanguard is internationally known for superior investment performance, exceptional client service, and the highest-value products in the industry. Without our remarkable crew, this success story couldn't have happened. Vanguard crew members?to us, they're much more than simply employees?have always been focused on giving their very best for our clients. We've never been interested in being the biggest?only the best. And being the best investment company starts with having the best crew in the business. Employing a capable, dedicated, and diverse crew is an important way we provide a high level of service to our clients. The diverse backgrounds and perspectives of our crew reflect the diversity of our millions of clients?and make us that much better at exceeding their expectations. Along with a diverse environment and crew, we offer a broad array of excellent career opportunities?from finance to information technology to communications and more. We encourage you to explore our website thoroughly to learn what Vanguard stands for as an organization and what we can offer you as an employer. Becoming a member of the Vanguard crew means more than simply finding a job?it's about building an exciting and rewarding long-term career with a unique organization. Visit Vanguard's website at http://vanguard.com. We appreciate our corporate partners. Learn more about the Corporate Partner Program. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift