Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Career Center Home About Mission & Vision Our History Advisors Staff Our Brochure Undergraduate Career Advisors Explore Careers Internships Co-ops Honors Celebration LGBTQIA Resources FAQs Pre-Graduate & Pre-Professional Advising Job Search Resources Career Tools Resume Guide Professional Attire Interviewing Policies for Students Identifying Fraudulent Positions Graduate Getting Started Our Graduate Services Make an Appointment Job Search Advice/Resources Upcoming Events Graduate Internship Program Career Fair Information & General Job Aids Resume Guide Multicultural & Diversity Resources Graduate Professional Development Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Graduate Professional Development Video Series GT Campus Closet Employers Employer Town Halls Employer Connections Team Recruiting @ GT Posting a Job On-Campus Recruiting Student Resume Books Employer Proctoring Information Sessions Corporate Partnership Program Co-op & Internship Programs Global Internship Program Hiring Non-U.S.Citizens FAQs Career & Salary Survey Reports Alumni Pre-Graduates and Pre-Professionals Employment & Job Links Alumni Career Services Events Career Alliance @ GT Career Fairs Information Sessions Workshops Building/Visitor Parking Map Career Chat Hour Series Employer Insight Series Career Fair Employers After Hours Workshop Requests Contact Hours of Operation Location Travel, Hotels, & Attractions Directory & Staff Parents CareerBuzz Job Board Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Contact Locations Georgia Tech Career Center 219 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA. 30332 404-894-3320 Fax: 404-894-7308 The Career Center staff are located on the 1st floor of the Bill Moore Student Success Center. The Success Center is located between the football stadium and the Tech Tower. Parking & Building Location: Recruiters should park in the new North Avenue visitor parking lot (labeled with a yellow sign that reads "Area #1 Parking") located across the street from the Tech Tower. As you head west on North Avenue, you will pass the football stadium on your right and the Alumni House on the left. Continue on to the next parking lot entrance on your left. After driving underneath the overhead foot bridge, turn left into the Area #1 Parking lot. After entering the driveway for the parking lot, you will go through the gate located to your left to enter visitor parking. You can park in the surface lot or drive up a ramp on the far side of the surface lot to park on the top level of the Burge parking deck. The cost of parking is $1.50 per hour and is payable by credit card upon exiting. To get to our office from the parking area, cross North Avenue on the footbridge. After crossing the street, continue straight and up the first flight of stairs. Turn right to enter the Student Success Center. Career Center Building Location: Our offices are located in the Bill Moore Student Success Center (1st Floor) and the Employer Check-in area for on campus interviews is located in the Basement area of the same building. The building is located across the street from the North Avenue Parking Area. To get to our building you can cross the street underneath the crosswalk above the street or you can use the crosswalk at the top of the parking deck. Once you walk across North Avenue from the parking area please follow the sidewalk to the right near the football stadium to the first building on the right (Building #31 - Bill Moore Student Success Center). After entering the building take the elevators to the basement level if you are conducting interviews or to the 1st floor if you are meeting with one of our staff members. Career Center Parking Procedures: The Visitor Parking Area has an automated parking attendant. You will be issued an automated ticket when you enter the parking area. The parking rate is $2.00 per hour (maximum of $15/day). When you exit the parking area you will insert your ticket into the automated attendant and then insert the payment amount indicated. The parking attendant accepts cash and credit/debit cards as payment and will provide a receipt. If the North Avenue Visitor Parking area is full, the next most convenient lot will be adjacent to the Student Center/Student Services Buildings. That lot is located on Ferst Drive. To get there turn left out of the parking area onto North Avenue. Take the first right onto Cherry Street, and follow it around the curve onto Ferst Drive. Proceed on Ferst Drive until you see the Student Center Parking banner (Parking Area 2) on the right side of the street. Ticketing and/or "booting" of illegally parked vehicles is enforced. Ticket/towing fees must be borne by the recipient. Please park in one of these visitor lots. Atlanta Restaurants and Attractions You can use the following links to get information on Atlanta's restaurants and attractions for your trip. atlanta.citysearch.com accessatlanta.com atlanta.net Atlanta Weather View the latest Atlanta weather from cnn.com/weather Lodging The hotel that is the most accessible to our office is the Hampton Inn located at 244 North Avenue NW, Atlanta , GA 30313. It is within easy walking distance (less than 1/8 mile) and can be reached at 404-881-0881 Another on-campus option is our Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center located in Technology Square, a three-block area in Midtown Atlanta on the eastside of campus. This is located within one mile of our office and can be reached at 404-347-9440 or http://www.gatechhotel.com/. In addition, you may consider the following (when contacting hotels, please inquire about Georgia Tech discounts): Hotel Listing Instagram LinkedIn Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Tech Career Center Bill Moore Student Success Center 219 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA. 30332 (404)894-3320 careercenter@gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login