Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | The Career Center Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services About Us Vision and Mission Hours of Operation Career Liaisons Staff Directory Diversity and Inclusion News Assessment, Research, and Evaluation Confidentiality FSU Career Center Disclaimer FSU Career Center Privacy Statement Employment at the Career Center Contact Us Students Undergraduate Students Build Your Foundation Certifications Graduate School Exploration/Resources Events and Workshops Jobs, Internships & Experience Plan Your Career Program & Services Resumes and Cover Letters Seminole Success Stories Virtual Services Graduate Students Programs & Services Certifications Application Documents Job Search Events and Workshops Seminole Success Stories Virtual Services Get Involved With The Career Center Maximizing Your Diversity Employers Recruit FSU Students for Jobs and Internships Attend a Career Fair or Event Build Your Brand Partner with the Career Center Plan Your Travel On-Campus Recruiting Information Sessions Faculty & Staff Career Community Resources for You Refer Someone for Services NACE Guide to Student Hiring Student Employee of the Year InternFSU Faculty/Staff Information Alumni, Family & Community Alumni Resources Community Member Services Family Member Resources Career Advisor Scholarships Support the Career Center Partner with the Career Center Orientation Presentation Resources Career Center Library Career Guides Candid Career Career Portfolio Match Major Sheets Quick Guides Search Internships Salary and Hiring Data ProfessioNole Clothing Closet Big Interview Tech Center About Us Topics Resources Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU The Career Center Toggle navigation About Us Vision and Mission Hours of Operation Career Liaisons Staff Directory Diversity and Inclusion News Assessment, Research, and Evaluation Confidentiality FSU Career Center Disclaimer FSU Career Center Privacy Statement Employment at the Career Center Contact Us Students Undergraduate Students Build Your Foundation Certifications Graduate School Exploration/Resources Events and Workshops Jobs, Internships & Experience Plan Your Career Program & Services Resumes and Cover Letters Seminole Success Stories Virtual Services Graduate Students Programs & Services Certifications Application Documents Job Search Events and Workshops Seminole Success Stories Virtual Services Get Involved With The Career Center Maximizing Your Diversity Employers Recruit FSU Students for Jobs and Internships Attend a Career Fair or Event Build Your Brand Partner with the Career Center Plan Your Travel On-Campus Recruiting Information Sessions Faculty & Staff Career Community Resources for You Refer Someone for Services NACE Guide to Student Hiring Student Employee of the Year InternFSU Faculty/Staff Information Alumni, Family & Community Alumni Resources Community Member Services Family Member Resources Career Advisor Scholarships Support the Career Center Partner with the Career Center Orientation Presentation Resources Career Center Library Career Guides Candid Career Career Portfolio Match Major Sheets Quick Guides Search Internships Salary and Hiring Data ProfessioNole Clothing Closet Big Interview Tech Center About Us Topics Resources CAREER ADVISING EXPLORE BADGES SUPPORT THE CAREER CENTER POST JOBS Home Students Graduate Students Seminole Success Stories Undergraduate Students Build Your Foundation Certifications Graduate School Exploration/Resources Events and Workshops Jobs, Internships & Experience Plan Your Career Program & Services Resumes and Cover Letters Seminole Success Stories Virtual Services Graduate Students Programs & Services Certifications Application Documents Job Search Events and Workshops Seminole Success Stories Virtual Services Get Involved With The Career Center Maximizing Your Diversity Seminole Success Stories Share Your Story ALLIE ANN MCCORD "Edit your résumé constantly. You don't want to get into a slump where you have not updated it in months and when the time comes for you to send it to a potential employer, it isn't a true display of who you are at the time.” Read More CHRISTIAN COX "The act of serving others was always important to me, but it was able to manifest itself in real life for the first time through this experience, and for that I am forever grateful." Read More LAURA TOUBES "I learned a lot about children, working with others, maintaining a good work ethic and schedule, and my future career in general." Read More EMMA MARIE RIESER "[My internship] allowed me to create connections in the Sarasota legal field that have motivated me to make my own mark in my hometown's community." Read More JESSE REGO "I had been networking throughout the course of an entire semester looking for the right fit. It took quite a while but it was nice to see all my hard work come to fruition. I reached out to a lot of people before I connected with the right people." Read More AISLINN GONZALEZ "Every day, I was tasked with a new challenge and I taught myself to look on the brighter side of things. I had my mentor and other graduate students depending on me.” Read More SARAH MERCIVAL "The Career Center contributed immensely to my application process, they helped edit my resume and cover letter and even helped prep me for the interview process.” Read More ANDREW LISTON "I finally have a legitimate organization behind me saying, 'We believe in you, you can do this,' and it's one of the most tremendous feelings of pride I've ever had...I understand now that my career path is not a straight line of progress, but a rollercoaster of successes and lessons learned.” Read More BROOKS PENA "The process of applying for the internship and acquiring it showed me that things aren't as hard as they seem. There are small, simple steps you need to take to get the things you want in life and if you fulfill them, your chances of success are very high.” Read More KAITLYNN ADAMS "One of the biggest things I've learned in my time at the State Attorney’s Office is that there are no small positions in law. While I expected to be ignored or brushed aside as "just an intern" by other staff members - and especially attorneys - they are so appreciative of my help and have truly taken me under their wing.” Read More RILEY BAZEMORE "Go to the Seminole Futures Career Fair! It is an amazing opportunity to be put in touch with future employers...Be yourself, be confident, and know your elevator pitch before walking into career fairs!” Read More LEAH WEINSTEIN "Never give up; stay true to yourself; you will end up where you are meant to be even if there are struggles along the way. It took me quite a few years to go from intern, employee, and eventually a PA student and then PA-C. While that is not where I initially thought I would end up, I am SO happy and grateful and absolutely LOVE my job." Read More ANDREW CROSBY "Make sure to stay prospective and keep an open mind. Use your resources; don't be afraid to ask questions. Come into interviews prepared and know that preparation and a dedication to going out and getting that job will succeed with work.” Read More KAITLYN CARROLL "Before this internship, I was unsure about how I would be able to find a career where I can fight for social justice to make a difference in people's lives. Now, I am interested in pursuing a full-time career in public policy and advocacy to advocate for criminal justice reform.” Read More LUKE B. VARI "The diligence you must maintain is something that will not only give you a leg up on anyone in the room, but will help promote a hardworking lifestyle for the rest of your career or future in general.” Read More ALBERTO GONZALEZ III "The ERP program gave me the tools I needed to be accountable and manage my time wisely, and it also gave me the opportunity to meet one-on-one with my supervisor and speak frankly about my progress and the areas where I can improve.” Read More HANYA NOUSSIER "I attended the Career Center's Career Fair to take the chance to speak with potential employers to expand my knowledge in the industry's latest trends and what they look for in a candidate.” Read More JENNIFER REAVES "I heard about the Internship Fund through an FSU newsletter, and I signed up for and attended an information session. It was just what I needed to help financially support my long commute and the tolls that were a daily cost on my one and a half hour drive each day.” Read More HOLLY MCDOWALL "This has been a great experience for me and a wonderful first insight into communications as a career." Read More SHINELLE SAUNDERS "Our alumni base is amazing, so definitely reach out to our alumni if you want to know more about a company." Read More FERNANDA RAMIREZ "I am now more aware of what I would like to do in the future and am proud that I learned to accomplish so much in little time. " Read More JESSICA GODEK "Network, be open to all opportunities, and make sure there is a career path that you are interested in pursuing beyond just the entry-level role." Read More PAIGE STEPHENSON "This internship opportunity is the perfect stepping stone into the professional marketing world. I am thankful that I was able to find it through my network of fellow Noles." Read More CALISTA FLORES "This experience helped me grow confident that I have the skills and abilities to succeed in my field. I always knew I liked social media on a personal level, but now I feel like I have the creative mind, writing abilities, and communication skills to succeed with it professionally." Read More ASHLEY JOHNS "This experience allowed to experience what it is like working under someone and receiving feedback on designs." Read More AMANDA BOUCHARD "One major takeaway from my work with film club is to always be one step ahead." Read More IGNACIO DIAZ SAEZ "Applying my creative skills and creating quality content for the graduate students was my driving force throughout the internship." Read More VICTORIA BOUDREAU "This will help prepare me for life after graduation because I will be able to help any company or office I work with in handling our responsibilities professionally." Read More IVORY LUCAS "Tenacity is a necessity. Graduate school is challenging and requires sacrifice. Keep your eyes on the prize." Read More LOGAN LOVE "This fellowship has certainly clarified my personal belief in the importance of public servants and grown my commitment to serving others." Read More COCOA WILLIAMS "My greatest hope is that my contribution to scholarly letters will fuel in others the same intellectual curiosity that first drew me to the field." Read More CORTNIE BAITY "It is my goal to heal and improve mental & physical health outcomes, as well as family relationships via personal finance intervention." Read More KAI TILLMAN "Each day was a new experience. It (my internship) gave me the best opportunity to grow and develop." Read More AMANDA PANCHERY "I especially enjoyed the work-life balance at IEM. It was a healthy work environment with strong leaders who were constantly challenging one another and building each other up. I hope to find this is my next work environment." Read More MICHELLE N. PARJEA "This was such a learning process that I will forever be grateful for. I cannot wait to make a full-time career out of this one day!" Read More NATALIE CEVALLOS "This internship definitely taught me a lot about the role art can play in a professional setting. Not many people realize that art is everywhere, and functions in a variety of forms. Interning at the Master Craftsman Studio, provided me with answers regarding my future career path." Read More CATALINA CORREA "This experience did help clarify my career path...I now realize my true passion for marketing and I am more certain that marketing is the career track for me." Read More OLIVIA STEPHENSON "Through this experience, I gained greater confidence in my interviewing and writing skills. This also allowed me to express my creative side, which is rare through my majors." Read More KASSIDY BRAZIEL "This was such a learning process that I will forever be grateful for. I cannot wait to make a full-time career out of this one day!" Read More KORY TALLEY "This experience has been the bridge between theory learned through curriculum, and real-world application." Read More ANDREW WEISZ "You cannot be afraid to fail, and when you do fail you need to examine that experience and learn from it." Read More ALISON SPEER "Becoming a leader with an organization that pushes huge projects internationally, has inspired me to continue to push creative boundaries and pursue a career with a large company who is also working to push the limits." Read More MARILYN FIALLOS "Working along with Florida Highway Patrol has increased my ability to know more about the criminal justice system and increased my passion to continue my education and professional work." Read More MALYCE COLLINS "Great things don't come from comfort zones." Read More MORGAN GRIFFIN "I can honestly say that I feel more prepared for my job search after college because of everything I have learned from my experience with Madison Social." Read More More Stories MIKAYLA REISER "Be a sponge. Soak up as much knowledge as possible, it will not only make you a more in-tune employee, but it will also contribute to your personal growth journey. It is important to listen, actively participate, and ask questions for clarification when needed." Read More ELI MYRON "This experience has provided me with direct exposure to help me confirm that a career in marine research and conservation is exactly what I want to do in the future." Read More MIKAYLA BUCKLEY "This experience got me really excited about the future of space exploration. While I realized that I may not want to continue work in my current field, it provided me with invaluable experiences and helped guide me to a new potential career path." Read More JOSH CORTMAN "The Career Center was an extremely helpful resource when polishing my resume which eventually helped me land my internship opportunity." Read More Dhevathi Rajan Rajagopalan Kannan "My goal is to make a more efficient world through the use of technology." Read More MIKEY SIMON "This experience gave me clarity on what this industry is truly like, beyond what you see on the television. I definitely am more interested in this career path than I was when I first applied for the internship." Read More ALONSO PEREZ “The experience I have had at Danfoss has lead me to completely reorganize my process of thinking on my feet, to solve industry projects in the most efficient way possible." Read More jAVIER salas "My goal is to make a more efficient world through the use of technology." Read More STEVE LEMERAND "If I am not challenging myself, I will not be implementing the positive changes within myself that I wish to achieve." Read More ALEXANDER ADAMS “I like the work I do and the people I work with, and hope that my career will lead me to similar working environments.” Read More FRANNETIA BELIARD "It has been extraordinary living in Morocco for the past three months and engulfing myself in a different culture has made me more culturally aware. I can only imagine the experiences I would have in different countries.” Read More NICOLE HANSEN "Teaching English in Thailand was definitely one of the most rewarding experiences of my life. I became very culturally aware of the social inequality and poverty happening in other parts of the world.” Read More KACI SLEETH “While this internship aligned with my general career goals from the start, it has helped me realize the type of content I hope to produce professionally one day.” Read More OLIVIA HOPKINS "My experience has helped me decide what I would like to do and where." Read More MELISSA ADAMS “This opportunity has taught me to stand up for what I feel is right, even if it means that I am the only dissenting voice.” Read More KALISA VILLAFANA "This summer I will be the first African American female to obtain a Ph.D. in Nuclear Physics from FSU." Read More YOURRI DESSUREAULT "I am working directly with NASA on developing the next generation of materials for the Mars mission through the US-Comp collaboration." Read More NOELLE SPORER "This experience helped me build a strong network of over 100,000 alumni and hardworking student colleagues in a variety of industries.” Read More ELANEY TEDDER "Without the resources provided by the Career Center and other FSU departments, I don’t believe I would’ve been as successful with my job search as I was.” Read More IVAN SOLA "Not only did I gain professional experience, but I grew as a person." Read More SARAH TERRILL ""My interest in how the brain controls feeding behavior evolved through a fusion of personal experiences with obesity and weight loss."” Read More DAVID SCHOENBERGER "The path to reaching your goals isn’t supposed to be easy; however, The Career Center at Florida State University is the perfect way to streamline the process.” Read More SAVANA ROACH "This research experience gave me a lot of field work experience that will be very valuable for me after graduation in my field.” Read More SAMANTHA KUNIN "This experience was invaluable in providing credibility towards my own experience and future goals.” Read More JOSEPH NG "This experience has solidified my passion for design and equipped me with the skills to begin my career confidently.” Read More SERIANA GAMBLE "I am beyond thankful for this field research experience and for receiving the Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship that made this experience possible.” Read More THOMAS FIELD "The Career Center's Mock Interview program helped me learn my specific strengths and weaknesses when it came to interviewing for my position.” Read More LINDSEY KAYE REYES "Handshake was crucial in obtaining my internship in that this is where I found the InternFSU opportunities.” Read More HUNTER DENNIS "Through my part-time job, I learned skills that will make me more marketable to employers in my field.” Read More NICOLE JENKS "The resume workshops at The Career Center are very useful and really helped me perfect my resume for the technology field.” Read More SABRINA BOUSBAR "My internship with the Democratic National Committee helped solidify my future.” Read More DANIEL NARVAEZ "This internship has changed my life. Thanks to the money I’ve made through personal sales in this position, I am able to graduate debt free.” Read More ALEC SPICER "The biggest asset to my success was through the use of Handshake, where I was able to directly apply for interviews with companies that I previously had spoken with at the career fairs.” Read More MARIA CAMILA MONTANO "I participated in a mock interview at the Career Center that allowed me to better prepare for when the real interview came.” Read More JESSICA GOLDMAN "I got hands-on experience in my field working with kids and made great connections with my co-workers and therapists at the practice.” Read More NASTASSIA JANVIER "The Career Center helped me achieve a stellar resume to make me a competitive candidate for FSUshadow.” Read More KYLE HILL "The Career Center helped me organize my resume into a one page, professional snapshot of my experiences when I applied for Student Body President.” Read More CAROLINA BAQUERIZO "My internship with Zoo Miami helped clarify my career path and strengthened my love for wildlife!” Read More ARSENE FREDERIC "The Career Center Experiential Recognition Program has helped equip me with the tools to be successful!” Read More KATHERINE GRIFFIN ""Gaining experience through internships is the best way to first, rule out experiences that may not be right for you and to secondly, find your passions before investing in your future.".” Read More MIA THOMAS "This experience helped me gain real work experience and allowed me to apply my classroom knowledge from FSU in a professional capacity." Read More ELANEY TEDDER "You will not lose anything by participating in a job shadow opportunity, but rather, learn more about yourself before you step foot into the real world.” Read More WENDY PARKULO "I used Handshake for my internship search, which was where I found the InternFSU positions.” Read More LOUIS RUSH "Participate in as many job shadow opportunities as you can.” Read More ALYSSA SCHUBERT "Take advantage of the resources available to you at The Career Center!” Read More COURTNEY SIMONCELLI "I used Handshake, which is an awesome Career Center resource, to apply for and obtain my internship through InternFSU.” Read More GWEN LOFMAN "Assume you are qualified and apply even if you may not be, as we are prone to undervalue our experiences and abilities as undergrads.” Read More LAUREN SCHWERDT "The Career Center supported my application process because I would not have received an interview without a strong resume.” Read More KATIE DAVIS "I attribute my part-time job to Seminole Futures, the FSUshadow program, and the time I spent at the Women in Accounting meetings.” Read More HANNAH AKIL "The Career Center made the job search process so much easier, and I had my job secured before graduation.” Read More NOAH GOMEZ "The Career Center’s constantly updated database of opportunities, Handshake, is by far the best resource for students seeking part-time employment or internships.” Read More RUTH CARRION "Take in every small lesson and benefit from your part-time job to reflect on how it has helped you grow and how you can get more out of the experience.” Read More ALISSA MCSHANE "Participating in an internship my freshman year gave me experiences that I could take with me to the classroom to guarantee success.” Read More TAYLOR DAVIS "The connections that I made at the career fair ultimately secured me interviews at the FSU Career Center with Northrop Grumman.” Read More NICOLE DIAZ "During my job search, I frequently visited the Career Center for help with my resume, cover letter, and portfolio, and also participated in a mock interview with my Career Liaison.” Read More ALYSSA ROGERS "I used the Career Center’s Experiential Certificate Program to reflect on and recognize my accomplishment.” Read More COURTNEY SELLARS "The Career Center’s Introduction to Career Development course taught me a lot about myself and what career I really wanted to pursue.” Read More TIMOTHY VINCENT JAMES "Having started as an intern with Domi Station and moving into a paid position has pushed me to reflect on my overall experience.” Read More MIKALYN BROWN "Working as both a full time hourly associate and a full time college student taught me the value of time management.” Read More ABIGAIL PERRY "My Career Liaison helped with everything from my resume to applying, and was the first person I emailed when I received the internship!” Read More FAITH CIAVARELLA "My internship experience helped me grow in tremendous ways both academically and professionally.” Read More EMILY ANNE VARGAS "Get involved in professional organizations to develop those relationships to ensure your success. Later on, you can give back and mentor someone else in the same position.” Read More ALVARO GABALDON "There are people here on campus that want to help. Their job is to help you, so take advantage of these resources before going it alone!” Read More DESIREE' WILLIAMS “The FSUshadow program helped me see first-hand the different departments of IT and allowed me to receive a job with the company that I shadowed for the day.” Read More SAM MAY "After interning with VISIT FLORIDA, I ended up being hired full-time!” Read More KINDRED LUBECK “I am so thankful that I applied to take part in the FSUshadow program!” Read More SCOTT DONOVAN "I had several internships at FSU, all of which I found through SeminoleLink. Two of my three internships turned into full-time offers!” Read More AMALIE MEER “The amount of skills and experience I’ve been able to add to my resume has helped me stand out above most other students and helped me obtain more job offers and positions than my peers.” Read More SYDNEY FALLMAN “This internship really opened my eyes to the possibility of working in the public sector, which opened up a new world of possibilities for me.” Read More ALI HARIRI “I learned a lot from the professional environment, meetings, seminars, and conferences that I was able to attend and I was able to make a lot of connections in laboratories and companies.” Read More JUANA DELGADO HOYOS “I went to The Career Center to get help on my resume, which helped build the strength of my resume. My resume gained organization and professionalism.” Read More RAYCHEL FELDMAN “Gaining these skills during undergraduate school will forever serve me in a positive manor as I will go into graduate school confident in my abilities to not only conduct research but also efficiently run a lab.” Read More EMILY BEYER “The Career Center helped me because they prepared me to look professional and feel confident in my skills and knowledge, as well as what I could contribute to the organization that I applied to.” Read More ROBERT A. DEASON “I believe each of these experiences have prepared me for a variety of employment opportunities.” Read More LACEY LANGSTON “I went to The Career Center for resume help. Without their help, I am not sure that I would have gotten as many interviews as I did.” Read More LAUREN MIELE “I think the biggest thing I learned from my experience at Raymond James is the value of networking and company culture.” Read More MARY "ALEX" ENLOW “Being in a career that I enjoy is very important to me and this internship helped me realize that I would like to be a Hill staffer after I graduate.” Read More BRENT SUMMERS “This experience helped me clarify my career path and solidified my admiration for chemical oceanography by immersing me into the field.” Read More MEREDITH MANK “Through this internship, I found that I really enjoy working with patrons, and I would like a job in the future that allows me to work with a lot of different people.” Read More SASHA POLISSKY “This truly was an eye opening experience that exposed me to the work ethic expected in such an intensive field that will set me apart in any future position.” Read More KEVAL PATEL “I got my internship by attending The Career Center’s Engineering Day where I was able to speak with representatives from Eli Lilly and then obtained a day after interview for the internship.” Read More Legacy Sort 9 Legacy Priority 11 title-inside title-centered 2 The Career Center The Dunlap Success Center 100 South Woodward Avenue Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306-4162 Phone: 850–644–6431 Fax: 850-644-3273 Website Questions/Broken Links Diversity and Accessibility Report Bias and Discrimination The Career Center: Facebook Instagram Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn YouTube Select languageSelect LanguageEnglishAfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBengaliBosnianBulgarianCatalanCebuanoChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)CroatianCzechDanishDutchEsperantoEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekGujaratiHaitian CreoleHausaHebrewHindiHmongHungarianIcelandicIgboIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseJavaneseKannadaKhmerKoreanLaoLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseMaoriMarathiMongolianNepaliNorwegianPersianPolishPortuguesePunjabiRomanianRussianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSomaliSpanishSwahiliSwedishTamilTeluguThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddishYorubaZulu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media