Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Engineering Careers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded For Employers For Students For Alumni Events Our Team Career Connect About Our Students Career Connect Spring Employer Expo Employer Policies & Guidelines Hiring International Students Career Connect How to Find a Job On-Campus Jobs Student Policies & Guidelines Summer Engagements Engineering Careers You are here: Home For Employers For Employers Message to Our Employer Partners The Columbia Engineering Graduate Career Placement Team is here to support all of your hiring needs. Please reach out to us to discuss new ways to collaborate and identify the right talent for your organization. We also invite employers to engage with our talented engineers and scientists directly through Columbia Engineering Career Connect. Our team serves all graduate students and alumni (MS and PhD) of Columbia Engineering. This includes 18 distinct MS programs and 13 PhD programs in various disciplines of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Expand all Collapse all Get Involved Post a Position Interested in hiring our engineers and scientists? The best way to recruit our students and alumni is to post a position on Columbia Engineering Career Connect. You're also welcome to contact our Graduate Career Placement team to discuss your specific hiring needs. If you want to hire from a specific program, you can contact that program's dedicated placement officer. Join Our Career Fair Career fairs are an excellent way to recruit and connect with our talented engineers across our 18 distinct MS programs and 13 PhD programs in various disciplines of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Learn more about our upcoming career fairs and how to sign up! Host an Event One of the most effective ways to engage our students is to meet them. We have many different avenues, including: information sessions, career fairs, office hours, industry round tables and showcases, panels, and on-campus interviews. We have also facilitated office visits (virtual and physical), and career talks. Please contact our team for details. Lead a Professional Development & Leadership (PDL) Session The Professional Development and Leadership (PDL) program’s goal is to enhance the Columbia Engineering education by providing enrichment and development opportunities. The PDL program takes a number of forms at Columbia Engineering including sessions featuring leading industry professionals. For more information, contact us. Engage in Projects Real-world, hands-on experience is valuable to our students. Many of our programs feature courses to specifically allow students to immediately engage with industry clients to solve their business and operational challenges. Students select projects to gain industry experience while taking courses. Contact Dr. Jenny Mak at [email protected] to get started. "Our Graduate Career Placement team is working to find innovative ways for our growing network of employers to engage with Columbia Engineering students. Whatever your staffing needs may be, we’re here to help connect you with our diverse pool of students and alumni." Ryan Day Manager, Graduate Career Placement Career Connect About Our Students Phone (646) 832-5941 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close