Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries internship programs UPIC On-Campus Internships departments / mentors online application form reimbursement request form students UPIC internship postings UPIC HR and Payroll Training UPIC Program Informational Video contact us International Internship Program Off-Campus Internship Program students students faq's employers Contact Us Micro Internship Program Internships and COVID-19 FAQ COVID-19 Virtual Services On-campus Internships and Co-ops Need more info? Contact Us! Student engagement is one of Clemson University’s areas of investment. To meet this goal Clemson has expanded its on-campus internship and co-op program to offer more students the opportunity to work closely with a member or members of Clemson's faculty or administration in an on-campus or Clemson affiliated position. Participating students will be given significant work that will help them prepare for their future careers. These are paid positions, and students can work part-time (12-15 hours/week) or full-time (28 hours/week). Part-time interns must be enrolled, full-time (12+ credit hours during fall and spring semesters) undergraduate students in good academic standing (minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0) Full-time interns must also be undergraduate students in good academic standing. However, as a full-time intern, you are not required to be enrolled in any classes other than our required INT course. Upon graduation, you are no longer eligible for a UPIC position. We are an academic internship and follow the academic calendar. The University has made an investment to fund a portion of these experiences. If the hiring department can provide a quality on-campus learning experience, appropriate supervision, and 50% of the student intern's salary, then the University has committed to provide the academic tool for the student’s internship course enrollment and to fund 50% of the student intern's salary (based on an hourly salary of $10 for 160 part-time site hours or $14 for 320 full-time site hours). Students interested in participating in the UPIC program can apply to UPIC internship positions through ClemsonJobLink. Summer and Fall positions are typically posted in mid-March. Spring positions are typically posted in mid-October. For more information on how to access ClemsonJobLink click here. Check out our UPIC Intern Spotlight Video! Featured Intern: David Kao Click here to check out the UPIC YouTube Channel! UPIC Annual Report Student Resources Department/Mentor Resources UPIC Events UPIC Magazines Current Issue, Issue 7 Issue 6 Issue 5 Issue 4 Issue 3 Issue 2 Issue 1 Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift