Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Job Search Prep Resumes An effective resume showcases your experience in such a way that it motivates an employer to contact you to schedule an interview. Your resume should reflect how your education and experiences fit and exceed the requirements for the position to which you’re applying. Think of your resume as a marketing tool that communicates the value you will bring to the employer. The “3 C’s of Resumes” Clear Make sure your resume addresses the required qualifications for the position to which you're applying. Include skills listed in the job description, and ensure they are easily identifiable. Be sure to tailor your resume to each position you pursue; resumes aren't one-size-fits-all! Concise For recent graduates or sales professionals, the standard resume length is 1 page. If you’re more experienced or you’re in a field like teaching, a 2-page resume is acceptable. References should be listed on a separate reference page. Clean Make sure your resume is easy to read Format your resume in such a way that a hiring manager can skim the document and still see key information. Stick to traditional fonts that are pre-loaded on most computers, like Times New Roman, Arial, Tahoma, Verdana, and Georgia. Don’t use more than 2 fonts on your resume. Use 10, 11, or 12 pt font for the body of your resume. Highlight your achievements and skill sets with bulleted statements beginning with action verbs. Avoid using full sentences and personal pronouns (e.g., I, me, my). Set headings, position titles, locations, etc. apart by consistently using bolding/italics throughout your resume; Consistency helps your resume look clean and professional. Remember your audience; unless you’re in a creative field (e.g., graphic design) where your resume is considered part of your portfolio or brand, steer clear of using colors and other images on your resum Resume Resources Additional Resume Letter Tips Job Search Prep Resources Resume Dropbox How-To Guides Interviewing Job Search Resumes Accessible How-To Guides Interviewing Job Search Resumes Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.