Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries cooperative education co-op ambassadors the co-op concept the co-op rotation Co-op Program Stats students getting started Rotation Instructions Assignments Reports Instructions co-op and financial aid co-op FAQs Employers Interview Days Employer FAQs Academic Terms Co-op Salary Survey COVID-19 Virtual Services The Co-op Rotations For engineering students, a minimum of three rotations (2 regular semesters and 1 summer) are needed to complete the program and earn the Cooperative Education Certificate that is awarded at the time of graduation. Two rotations are needed for all other majors to earn the certificate, however only one of the rotations may be a summer. The commitment to the rotations is one of the factors that differentiate the co-op assignment from an internship. Cooperative Education is not a summer job program. The chart illustrates the typical co-op rotations. A student will interview with companies the semester before he or she begins the first rotation. Due to academic considerations or teaching partner special requests, students may complete back-to-back rotations. Normally this would be a spring-summer or summer-fall combination. Engineering majors would still need to complete an additional 18 week semester rotation to fulfill the program's requirements. Non-engineering majors such as Packaging Science or Business often complete back-to-back rotations. The Co-op Program is a rigorous educational experience. While on rotations, the students’ experiences are closely monitored by the program’s academic staff to ensure that they are successfully engaged in their assignments. Students are enrolled in a co-op course for each rotation (COOP 1010, COOP 1020, COOP 1030, etc.). Students receive academic recognition on their transcripts as the courses are graded Pass/No Pass. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift