Skip banner navigation Skip to main content Site Header Region Quick Links myCoyote Directory Library Maps Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift Page Header Job Opportunities Page Menu Page Menu Current Opportunities Main Content Region Job Opportunities Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position Location Closes Department of Geography Part time Lecturer Pool San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Geography and Environmental Studies at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for the part-time Lecturer pool. We welcome applications from candidates with expertise to teach undergraduate courses in the following areas: · Environmental Studies · Global Studies · Physical Geography · Human Geography (Cultural/Social/Political/Economic) · Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and geospatial techniques. Part-time faculty may be hired from this applicant pool as needed by the department to teach courses and be available for office hours. A list of courses offered by the department is provided in the CSUSB University Bulletin (https://bulletin.csusb.edu/coursesaz/geog/) and candidates are encouraged to identify the courses of their expertise in the application cover letter. Appointments from the part-time pool are temporary and may be made on short-notice before the start of fall 2022 and spring 2023 semesters. A Master's or Doctoral degree in Geography or related discipline is required by time of the appointment. Part-Time Lecturer POOL - Dept. of Child Development San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Child Development is seeking individuals to teach courses in child development and/or early childhood education. We offer a variety of courses to students including those focusing on various age children (from 0-18), developmental domains (cognitive, social emotional, etc.), contexts of development (families, school environments, etc.), and critical issues (diversity, special education, assessment). We also provide courses in statistics and research methodology. Open Rank of Mathematics Education (Elementary Mathematics)-Department of Teacher Education and Foundations San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Teacher Education and Foundations (TEF) within the College of Education at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications from a diverse group of qualiﬁed applicants for a tenure-track position at the rank of Assistant Professor of Mathematics Education (Elementary Mathematics) to begin August 2022. The Department is seeking candidates who have a passion for taking leadership roles in developing new innovative programs, engaging in and promoting research in mathematics education, and supporting University, College of Education, and Teacher Education & Foundations Department strategic goals, which include student success and partnerships with the community to enhance the social, economic, and cultural conditions of the region and beyond. Open Rank of Spanish-English Bilingual Education (Elementary Program)-Department of Teacher Education and Foundations San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Teacher Education and Foundations (TEF) within the College of Education at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications from a diverse group of qualiﬁed applicants for a tenure-track position (OPEN RANK) Professor of Spanish-English Bilingual Education (Elementary Bilingual) to begin August 2022. The Department is seeking candidates who have a passion for taking leadership roles in developing new innovative programs, engaging in and promoting research in bilingual education, and supporting University, College of Education, and Teacher Education & Foundations Department strategic goals, which include student success and partnerships with the community to enhance the social, economic, and cultural conditions of the region and beyond. Department Chair of History - AY (Internal Applicants Only) San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of History at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for the position of Department Chair at the Associate or Full Professor rank beginning August 15, 2022. This invitation is for candidates internal to the history department at CSUSB only. The ideal candidate will be an experienced faculty member with demonstrated leadership and administrative skills, an established record of scholarly research and evidence of commitment to student success. The Chair is expected to provide leadership in shaping and facilitating the future of the department including student success, faculty and staff development, faculty mentoring, and strategic planning. The Department of History is located in the College of Social and Behavioral Sciences and offers a B.A. in History and a B.A. in Public History. Additionally, the department offers a M.A. program in History. The Department has 13 full-time tenure track faculty members and approximately 360 undergraduate majors and 40 graduate majors. If you have any questions, please contact Dr. Thomas Long (tlong@csusb.edu) or Pamela Crosson (pcrosson@csusb.edu). Assistant or Associate Professor, Social Work San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The School of Social Work invites applications from a diverse group of qualified applicants for a tenure track position at the rank of Assistant or Associate Professor, to begin August, 2022; areas of teaching focus are flexible. This position will include program administration in the future, so interest and experience in administration is strongly preferred. Experience teaching, along with experience teaching online, is strongly preferred. The ability to conduct research, seek internal and/or external grants, and teach courses at the BASW and MSW levels is required. For the MSW program in particular, an understanding of the integration of micro and macro practice is necessary. In addition, the ability to supervise MSW student research is required. Department of Psychology, Full-Time Lecturer- Biological Psychology San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Psychology at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for a full-time lecturer position in biological psychology. The successful candidate will have the expertise to teach courses in various areas of “biopsychology” (e.g., psychopharmacology, human neuroscience, behavioral genetics … etc.). We seek candidates with proven teaching ability at the undergraduate level and potential for excellence in graduate teaching. Fully qualified candidates will have the ability to teach students of diverse cultural backgrounds. The preferred start date for the position is August 17, 2022. A Master's degree in biological psychology, behavioral neuroscience, experimental psychology, or a related area is required. Individuals with a doctorate in one of these areas are encouraged to apply. Outreach and Engagement Librarian/Senior Assistant Librarian San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus Outreach and Engagement Librarian - John M. Pfau Library, California State University San Bernardino We are seeking a dynamic, creative, and culturally sensitive librarian to lead collaborative efforts in outreach and engagement. The focus of this position will be the development, implementation, and assessment of a variety of outreach and engagement efforts, both in person and online. This includes acting as liaison to campus offices and to student and faculty groups to ensure the library is represented in relevant campus events, programs, and initiatives. An understanding of issues facing culturally diverse, first-generation college students will be crucial to the success of these efforts. CSUSB serves approximately 20,000 students, of which 81% are first-generation college students, and graduates about 5,000 students annually. CSUSB has one of the most diverse student populations of any university in the Inland Empire, and the second highest Hispanic enrollment of all public universities in California. Department of Educational Leadership and Technology Tenure Track Faculty San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Educational Leadership and Technology at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications from a diverse group of qualified applicants for a tenure track position at the rank of Open Rank Professor to begin August, 2022. The Department of Educational Leadership and Technology at California State University, San Bernardino is seeking applications for one (1) open rank, tenure- track faculty appointment in the Educational Administration Program with expertise and experience in PreK-12 education. Primary responsibilities of this position includes teaching courses in the Educational Administration Program at the master's level. Library Instruction Specialist/Senior Assistant Librarian San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus We are seeking a qualified, service-oriented, innovative, and collaborative colleague to join us and fill this vital role. The successful candidate will be the point person for our already existing, full-featured instruction program. Monitor current trends in academic library instruction and information literacy and make recommendations to the team for moving our instruction program forward with refinements or new approaches to existing instruction services, as well as recommendations for devising, planning, and implementing new ones. Primary responsibility for organizing and scheduling library instruction on our main campus. You support library instruction at our satellite campus in Palm Desert as needed. Participate in reference service, collection development, and liaison duties. The successful candidate will be expected to meet retention, promotion, and tenure (RPT) standards for tenure-track library faculty in three areas: (1) professional assignment; (2) research, scholarly, or creative contributions; and, (3) university and/or community service. The library provides support for and fosters intellectual endeavors. Librarians are valued as faculty with their own varied research interests which may not be limited to library science. At CSUSB, diversity, equity and inclusion are values central to our mission. We recognize that diversity and inclusion in all its forms are necessary for our institutional success. By fully leveraging our diverse experiences, backgrounds, and insights, we inspire innovation, challenge the status quo, and create better outcomes for our students and community. As part of CSUSB’s commitment to hire, develop, and retain a diverse faculty, we offer a variety of networking, mentoring and development programs for our junior faculty. We are committed to building and sustaining a CSUSB community that is supportive and inclusive of all individuals. Department of Child Development, Department Chair (Internal Applicants Only) San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Child Development at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for the position of Department Chair at the Associate or Full Professor rank beginning August 1, 2022. The ideal candidate will be an experienced faculty member with demonstrated leadership and administrative skills, an established record of scholarly research and evidence of excellence in teaching. The Chair is expected to provide leadership in facilitating long-term planning for professional involvement and development of the faculty and the Department, and mentor faculty effectively in meeting their responsibilities in scholarship, teaching, and service. The Department of Child Development is located in the College of Social and Behavioral Sciences and offers a B.A. in Child Development (with two concentrations - Early Childhood Development and Child and Adolescent Development). Additionally, the department offers a M.A. program in Child Development. The Department has 10 full-time tenure track, 3 part-time faculty members and approximately 500 undergraduate majors and 60 graduate majors. California State University, San Bernardino is located in San Bernardino in the Inland Empire, 60 miles east of Los Angeles. CSUSB offers programs through the colleges of Arts and Letters, Business and Public Administration, Education, Natural Sciences, Social and Behavioral Sciences and operates a satellite campus in Palm Desert located in Coachella Valley. CSUSB serves approximately 20,700 students and offers 47 undergraduate, 35 graduate and one doctoral degree as well as 13 programs with national accreditation. Department of Psychology, Assistant or Associate Professor in Biological Psychology San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Psychology at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for a tenure-track position at the assistant or associate professor level in biological psychology. The successful candidate will have the expertise to teach courses in various areas of biopsychology as well as animal learning. Examples of such courses include behavioral neuroscience, brain and behavior, neuropsychiatric disorders, and advanced seminar in biological psychology. Individuals with research interests in neuroendocrinology, drug addiction, the neurobiology of learning and memory, or psychopharmacology are especially encouraged to apply. A Ph.D. in behavioral neuroscience, experimental psychology, or a related area is required at the time of appointment. The start date for the position is August 15, 2022. Department of Psychology, Full-Time Lecture General Psychology San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Psychology at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for a full-time lecturer position in psychology. The successful candidate will have the expertise to teach undergraduate courses in various areas in psychology, with a preference for individuals who can teach undergraduate courses in developmental psychology, as well as courses in research methods, and statistics. The preferred start date for the position is August 15, 2022. Assistant Professor, School of Computer Science & Engineering San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The School of Computer Science and Engineering at California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB) invites applications for a tenure-track position in Computer Science at the Assistant Professor level, beginning August 2022. All areas of Computer Science will be considered. As one of the largest department/school in the College of Natural Sciences, the School of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) has 18 tenure-track faculty with a variety of research interests and approximately 1000 students with diverse backgrounds. CSE offers 4 undergraduate and 1 graduate programs, i.e., B.S. in Computer Science (ABET accredited), B.S. in Computer Engineering (ABET accredited), B.S. in Bioinformatics, B.A. in Computer Systems, and M.S. in Computer Science. Preferred candidates must demonstrate potential for excellence in teaching, research and scholarly activities. The candidate is expected to teach a variety of undergraduate courses in computer science domain and graduate courses in related areas of specialization, supervise student research at both undergraduate and graduate levels, and actively participate in other types of academic student advising. The candidate will serve the School, College and University, as well as the community and the profession. Required Qualifications • Ph.D. in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or a closely related field by the time of appointment. • Demonstrated teaching potential at college level • Demonstrated potential for successful research, scholarly and creative activities Preferred Qualifications • Excellent record of teaching • Excellent record of publication • Demonstrated ability and clear plans for research funding • Demonstrated commitment to working successfully with a diverse student population. Formal review of applications will begin November 15, 2021 and continue until the position is filled Department of World Languages and Literatures, Assistant Professor San Bernardino - Palm Desert Campus The Department of World Languages and Literatures invites applications for the position of Assistant Professor of Latinx/Chicanx literature, which will start in August of 2022. This is a full-time, tenure-track position. In addition to expertise in Latinx/Chicanx literature and culture, additional specializations in translation, Spanish for the professions, applied linguistics, and/or related fields are desirable. The successful candidate will demonstrate a record of scholarship, teaching experience, and professional service commensurate with the rank of Assistant Professor. This tenure-track position will primarily be housed at the Palm Desert campus of CSUSB. Our Spanish faculty have been involved in interdisciplinary work across campus (Healthcare Spanish, Latinx/Latin American Studies, and Spanish for Criminal Justice). In addition, they are leading study abroad programs. The section needs a faculty member to participate and continue these relationships and to build additional interdisciplinary programs, particularly in the area of Spanish for the professions. Department of Philosophy, Assistant Professor San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Philosophy at California State University, San Bernardino, is hiring a full-time, academic-year, tenure-track Assistant Professor. The area of specialization is Ancient Greek or Roman Philosophy. The area of concentration may be anything that will help the department diversify its course offerings and which does not overlap with areas our current tenure-line faculty teach. We are especially interested in candidates who could offer courses in one or more of Africana (African, African American), East Asian, Indigenous American, Islamic, South Asian, and other less commonly taught philosophies. Since almost all our department’s courses are designated “Writing Intensive,” preference will be given to candidates who demonstrate commitment to and success in helping undergraduates develop as writers. PhD in Philosophy by the time of appointment is required. For full consideration, apply by November 1, 2021. In your application, include a cover letter that describes what makes you a good fit for this job, this department, and this university. Provide evidence of successful experience teaching undergraduates, commitment to diversity and equity, and ability to teach philosophical writing to undergraduates. Department of Public Administration, Department Chair, Tenured San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Public Administration at California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB) seeks an innovative, passionate educator and leader to join our NASPAA (Network of Schools of Public Affairs, Policy and Administration) accredited team as Department Chair and MPA Director with tenure and rank (Full or Associate Professor) beginning August 2022. The Department has a strong commitment to public service values, ethical behavior, shared governance, diversity and student learning. The Master of Public Administration (MPA) is one of the premier graduate programs at CSUSB, with over 200 students, and one of the top MPA programs in the California State University system. We also administer an undergraduate concentration of approximately 90 students. While we are a teaching institution, Public Administration faculty are active in their research areas. Duties include creating and maintaining public administration course schedules and teaching assignments; managing department activities and administration; overseeing graduate and undergraduate programs; supervising and assisting in branding and marketing the MPA Program; mentoring and developing faculty and staff; building and maintaining engagements with alumni and the regional community; and maintaining excellent relations across the College and the University. Assistant, Advanced Assistant or Associate Professor of Ethnic Studies San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Program of Ethnic Studies at California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB), invites applications from qualified candidates for a tenure-line position at the rank of Assistant, Advanced Assistant or Associate Professor to begin August 2022. We seek a scholar/instructor of Critical Ethnic Studies specializing in Native/American Indian/Indigenous Studies with a focus on settler colonialism, environmental justice, Queer Indigeneity and/or Indigenous epistemologies and methodologies; or, in African American/Black Studies with a focus on Abolition Studies, Black Trans Studies, visual culture and/or Black geography to teach in a newly revised curriculum in a growing and dynamic Program of Ethnic Studies. Candidates whose specializations are in Critical Ethnic Studies with a focus on relational frameworks between communities of color, prioritizing those we have listed above, will also be considered. Department of Nursing Laboratory Coordinator: Skills & Simulation Lab & Examination Proctor (Adjunct Pool Palm Desert Campus) San Bernardino - Palm Desert Campus The Nursing Laboratory Coordinator Skills & Simulation Lab and Examination Proctor (NLC & EP) at Palm Desert Campus is a Registered Nurse (RN) faculty member who has responsibility for planning, quality improvement and day-to-day coordination of the Skills & Simulation Lab instructional activities and managing of supplies and Proctoring of exams. Department of Nursing Laboratory Coordinator: Skills & Simulation Lab & Examination Proctor (Adjunct Pool) San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Nursing Laboratory Coordinator Skills & Simulation Lab and Examination Proctor (NLC & EP) is a Registered Nurse (RN) faculty member who has responsibility for planning, quality improvement and day-to-day coordination of the Skills & Simulation Lab instructional activities and managing of supplies and Proctoring of exams. More Jobs 6 Current opportunities Position Location Closes Department of Geography Part time Lecturer Pool San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Geography and Environmental Studies at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for the part-time Lecturer pool. We welcome applications from candidates with expertise to teach undergraduate courses in the following areas: · Environmental Studies · Global Studies · Physical Geography · Human Geography (Cultural/Social/Political/Economic) · Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and geospatial techniques. Part-time faculty may be hired from this applicant pool as needed by the department to teach courses and be available for office hours. A list of courses offered by the department is provided in the CSUSB University Bulletin (https://bulletin.csusb.edu/coursesaz/geog/) and candidates are encouraged to identify the courses of their expertise in the application cover letter. Appointments from the part-time pool are temporary and may be made on short-notice before the start of fall 2022 and spring 2023 semesters. A Master's or Doctoral degree in Geography or related discipline is required by time of the appointment. Part-Time Lecturer POOL - Dept. of Child Development San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Child Development is seeking individuals to teach courses in child development and/or early childhood education. We offer a variety of courses to students including those focusing on various age children (from 0-18), developmental domains (cognitive, social emotional, etc.), contexts of development (families, school environments, etc.), and critical issues (diversity, special education, assessment). We also provide courses in statistics and research methodology. Open Rank of Mathematics Education (Elementary Mathematics)-Department of Teacher Education and Foundations San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Teacher Education and Foundations (TEF) within the College of Education at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications from a diverse group of qualiﬁed applicants for a tenure-track position at the rank of Assistant Professor of Mathematics Education (Elementary Mathematics) to begin August 2022. The Department is seeking candidates who have a passion for taking leadership roles in developing new innovative programs, engaging in and promoting research in mathematics education, and supporting University, College of Education, and Teacher Education & Foundations Department strategic goals, which include student success and partnerships with the community to enhance the social, economic, and cultural conditions of the region and beyond. Open Rank of Spanish-English Bilingual Education (Elementary Program)-Department of Teacher Education and Foundations San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Teacher Education and Foundations (TEF) within the College of Education at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications from a diverse group of qualiﬁed applicants for a tenure-track position (OPEN RANK) Professor of Spanish-English Bilingual Education (Elementary Bilingual) to begin August 2022. The Department is seeking candidates who have a passion for taking leadership roles in developing new innovative programs, engaging in and promoting research in bilingual education, and supporting University, College of Education, and Teacher Education & Foundations Department strategic goals, which include student success and partnerships with the community to enhance the social, economic, and cultural conditions of the region and beyond. Department Chair of History - AY (Internal Applicants Only) San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of History at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for the position of Department Chair at the Associate or Full Professor rank beginning August 15, 2022. This invitation is for candidates internal to the history department at CSUSB only. The ideal candidate will be an experienced faculty member with demonstrated leadership and administrative skills, an established record of scholarly research and evidence of commitment to student success. The Chair is expected to provide leadership in shaping and facilitating the future of the department including student success, faculty and staff development, faculty mentoring, and strategic planning. The Department of History is located in the College of Social and Behavioral Sciences and offers a B.A. in History and a B.A. in Public History. Additionally, the department offers a M.A. program in History. The Department has 13 full-time tenure track faculty members and approximately 360 undergraduate majors and 40 graduate majors. If you have any questions, please contact Dr. Thomas Long (tlong@csusb.edu) or Pamela Crosson (pcrosson@csusb.edu). Assistant or Associate Professor, Social Work San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The School of Social Work invites applications from a diverse group of qualified applicants for a tenure track position at the rank of Assistant or Associate Professor, to begin August, 2022; areas of teaching focus are flexible. This position will include program administration in the future, so interest and experience in administration is strongly preferred. Experience teaching, along with experience teaching online, is strongly preferred. The ability to conduct research, seek internal and/or external grants, and teach courses at the BASW and MSW levels is required. For the MSW program in particular, an understanding of the integration of micro and macro practice is necessary. In addition, the ability to supervise MSW student research is required. Department of Psychology, Full-Time Lecturer- Biological Psychology San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Psychology at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for a full-time lecturer position in biological psychology. The successful candidate will have the expertise to teach courses in various areas of “biopsychology” (e.g., psychopharmacology, human neuroscience, behavioral genetics … etc.). We seek candidates with proven teaching ability at the undergraduate level and potential for excellence in graduate teaching. Fully qualified candidates will have the ability to teach students of diverse cultural backgrounds. The preferred start date for the position is August 17, 2022. A Master's degree in biological psychology, behavioral neuroscience, experimental psychology, or a related area is required. Individuals with a doctorate in one of these areas are encouraged to apply. Outreach and Engagement Librarian/Senior Assistant Librarian San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus Outreach and Engagement Librarian - John M. Pfau Library, California State University San Bernardino We are seeking a dynamic, creative, and culturally sensitive librarian to lead collaborative efforts in outreach and engagement. The focus of this position will be the development, implementation, and assessment of a variety of outreach and engagement efforts, both in person and online. This includes acting as liaison to campus offices and to student and faculty groups to ensure the library is represented in relevant campus events, programs, and initiatives. An understanding of issues facing culturally diverse, first-generation college students will be crucial to the success of these efforts. CSUSB serves approximately 20,000 students, of which 81% are first-generation college students, and graduates about 5,000 students annually. CSUSB has one of the most diverse student populations of any university in the Inland Empire, and the second highest Hispanic enrollment of all public universities in California. Department of Educational Leadership and Technology Tenure Track Faculty San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Educational Leadership and Technology at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications from a diverse group of qualified applicants for a tenure track position at the rank of Open Rank Professor to begin August, 2022. The Department of Educational Leadership and Technology at California State University, San Bernardino is seeking applications for one (1) open rank, tenure- track faculty appointment in the Educational Administration Program with expertise and experience in PreK-12 education. Primary responsibilities of this position includes teaching courses in the Educational Administration Program at the master's level. Library Instruction Specialist/Senior Assistant Librarian San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus We are seeking a qualified, service-oriented, innovative, and collaborative colleague to join us and fill this vital role. The successful candidate will be the point person for our already existing, full-featured instruction program. Monitor current trends in academic library instruction and information literacy and make recommendations to the team for moving our instruction program forward with refinements or new approaches to existing instruction services, as well as recommendations for devising, planning, and implementing new ones. Primary responsibility for organizing and scheduling library instruction on our main campus. You support library instruction at our satellite campus in Palm Desert as needed. Participate in reference service, collection development, and liaison duties. The successful candidate will be expected to meet retention, promotion, and tenure (RPT) standards for tenure-track library faculty in three areas: (1) professional assignment; (2) research, scholarly, or creative contributions; and, (3) university and/or community service. The library provides support for and fosters intellectual endeavors. Librarians are valued as faculty with their own varied research interests which may not be limited to library science. At CSUSB, diversity, equity and inclusion are values central to our mission. We recognize that diversity and inclusion in all its forms are necessary for our institutional success. By fully leveraging our diverse experiences, backgrounds, and insights, we inspire innovation, challenge the status quo, and create better outcomes for our students and community. As part of CSUSB’s commitment to hire, develop, and retain a diverse faculty, we offer a variety of networking, mentoring and development programs for our junior faculty. We are committed to building and sustaining a CSUSB community that is supportive and inclusive of all individuals. Department of Child Development, Department Chair (Internal Applicants Only) San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Child Development at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for the position of Department Chair at the Associate or Full Professor rank beginning August 1, 2022. The ideal candidate will be an experienced faculty member with demonstrated leadership and administrative skills, an established record of scholarly research and evidence of excellence in teaching. The Chair is expected to provide leadership in facilitating long-term planning for professional involvement and development of the faculty and the Department, and mentor faculty effectively in meeting their responsibilities in scholarship, teaching, and service. The Department of Child Development is located in the College of Social and Behavioral Sciences and offers a B.A. in Child Development (with two concentrations - Early Childhood Development and Child and Adolescent Development). Additionally, the department offers a M.A. program in Child Development. The Department has 10 full-time tenure track, 3 part-time faculty members and approximately 500 undergraduate majors and 60 graduate majors. California State University, San Bernardino is located in San Bernardino in the Inland Empire, 60 miles east of Los Angeles. CSUSB offers programs through the colleges of Arts and Letters, Business and Public Administration, Education, Natural Sciences, Social and Behavioral Sciences and operates a satellite campus in Palm Desert located in Coachella Valley. CSUSB serves approximately 20,700 students and offers 47 undergraduate, 35 graduate and one doctoral degree as well as 13 programs with national accreditation. Department of Psychology, Assistant or Associate Professor in Biological Psychology San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Psychology at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for a tenure-track position at the assistant or associate professor level in biological psychology. The successful candidate will have the expertise to teach courses in various areas of biopsychology as well as animal learning. Examples of such courses include behavioral neuroscience, brain and behavior, neuropsychiatric disorders, and advanced seminar in biological psychology. Individuals with research interests in neuroendocrinology, drug addiction, the neurobiology of learning and memory, or psychopharmacology are especially encouraged to apply. A Ph.D. in behavioral neuroscience, experimental psychology, or a related area is required at the time of appointment. The start date for the position is August 15, 2022. Department of Psychology, Full-Time Lecture General Psychology San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Psychology at California State University, San Bernardino invites applications for a full-time lecturer position in psychology. The successful candidate will have the expertise to teach undergraduate courses in various areas in psychology, with a preference for individuals who can teach undergraduate courses in developmental psychology, as well as courses in research methods, and statistics. The preferred start date for the position is August 15, 2022. Assistant Professor, School of Computer Science & Engineering San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The School of Computer Science and Engineering at California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB) invites applications for a tenure-track position in Computer Science at the Assistant Professor level, beginning August 2022. All areas of Computer Science will be considered. As one of the largest department/school in the College of Natural Sciences, the School of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) has 18 tenure-track faculty with a variety of research interests and approximately 1000 students with diverse backgrounds. CSE offers 4 undergraduate and 1 graduate programs, i.e., B.S. in Computer Science (ABET accredited), B.S. in Computer Engineering (ABET accredited), B.S. in Bioinformatics, B.A. in Computer Systems, and M.S. in Computer Science. Preferred candidates must demonstrate potential for excellence in teaching, research and scholarly activities. The candidate is expected to teach a variety of undergraduate courses in computer science domain and graduate courses in related areas of specialization, supervise student research at both undergraduate and graduate levels, and actively participate in other types of academic student advising. The candidate will serve the School, College and University, as well as the community and the profession. Required Qualifications • Ph.D. in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or a closely related field by the time of appointment. • Demonstrated teaching potential at college level • Demonstrated potential for successful research, scholarly and creative activities Preferred Qualifications • Excellent record of teaching • Excellent record of publication • Demonstrated ability and clear plans for research funding • Demonstrated commitment to working successfully with a diverse student population. Formal review of applications will begin November 15, 2021 and continue until the position is filled Department of World Languages and Literatures, Assistant Professor San Bernardino - Palm Desert Campus The Department of World Languages and Literatures invites applications for the position of Assistant Professor of Latinx/Chicanx literature, which will start in August of 2022. This is a full-time, tenure-track position. In addition to expertise in Latinx/Chicanx literature and culture, additional specializations in translation, Spanish for the professions, applied linguistics, and/or related fields are desirable. The successful candidate will demonstrate a record of scholarship, teaching experience, and professional service commensurate with the rank of Assistant Professor. This tenure-track position will primarily be housed at the Palm Desert campus of CSUSB. Our Spanish faculty have been involved in interdisciplinary work across campus (Healthcare Spanish, Latinx/Latin American Studies, and Spanish for Criminal Justice). In addition, they are leading study abroad programs. The section needs a faculty member to participate and continue these relationships and to build additional interdisciplinary programs, particularly in the area of Spanish for the professions. Department of Philosophy, Assistant Professor San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Philosophy at California State University, San Bernardino, is hiring a full-time, academic-year, tenure-track Assistant Professor. The area of specialization is Ancient Greek or Roman Philosophy. The area of concentration may be anything that will help the department diversify its course offerings and which does not overlap with areas our current tenure-line faculty teach. We are especially interested in candidates who could offer courses in one or more of Africana (African, African American), East Asian, Indigenous American, Islamic, South Asian, and other less commonly taught philosophies. Since almost all our department’s courses are designated “Writing Intensive,” preference will be given to candidates who demonstrate commitment to and success in helping undergraduates develop as writers. PhD in Philosophy by the time of appointment is required. For full consideration, apply by November 1, 2021. In your application, include a cover letter that describes what makes you a good fit for this job, this department, and this university. Provide evidence of successful experience teaching undergraduates, commitment to diversity and equity, and ability to teach philosophical writing to undergraduates. Department of Public Administration, Department Chair, Tenured San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Department of Public Administration at California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB) seeks an innovative, passionate educator and leader to join our NASPAA (Network of Schools of Public Affairs, Policy and Administration) accredited team as Department Chair and MPA Director with tenure and rank (Full or Associate Professor) beginning August 2022. The Department has a strong commitment to public service values, ethical behavior, shared governance, diversity and student learning. The Master of Public Administration (MPA) is one of the premier graduate programs at CSUSB, with over 200 students, and one of the top MPA programs in the California State University system. We also administer an undergraduate concentration of approximately 90 students. While we are a teaching institution, Public Administration faculty are active in their research areas. Duties include creating and maintaining public administration course schedules and teaching assignments; managing department activities and administration; overseeing graduate and undergraduate programs; supervising and assisting in branding and marketing the MPA Program; mentoring and developing faculty and staff; building and maintaining engagements with alumni and the regional community; and maintaining excellent relations across the College and the University. Assistant, Advanced Assistant or Associate Professor of Ethnic Studies San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Program of Ethnic Studies at California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB), invites applications from qualified candidates for a tenure-line position at the rank of Assistant, Advanced Assistant or Associate Professor to begin August 2022. We seek a scholar/instructor of Critical Ethnic Studies specializing in Native/American Indian/Indigenous Studies with a focus on settler colonialism, environmental justice, Queer Indigeneity and/or Indigenous epistemologies and methodologies; or, in African American/Black Studies with a focus on Abolition Studies, Black Trans Studies, visual culture and/or Black geography to teach in a newly revised curriculum in a growing and dynamic Program of Ethnic Studies. Candidates whose specializations are in Critical Ethnic Studies with a focus on relational frameworks between communities of color, prioritizing those we have listed above, will also be considered. Department of Nursing Laboratory Coordinator: Skills & Simulation Lab & Examination Proctor (Adjunct Pool Palm Desert Campus) San Bernardino - Palm Desert Campus The Nursing Laboratory Coordinator Skills & Simulation Lab and Examination Proctor (NLC & EP) at Palm Desert Campus is a Registered Nurse (RN) faculty member who has responsibility for planning, quality improvement and day-to-day coordination of the Skills & Simulation Lab instructional activities and managing of supplies and Proctoring of exams. Department of Nursing Laboratory Coordinator: Skills & Simulation Lab & Examination Proctor (Adjunct Pool) San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus The Nursing Laboratory Coordinator Skills & Simulation Lab and Examination Proctor (NLC & EP) is a Registered Nurse (RN) faculty member who has responsibility for planning, quality improvement and day-to-day coordination of the Skills & Simulation Lab instructional activities and managing of supplies and Proctoring of exams. More Jobs 6 Powered by PageUp Right Content Applicant Sign-In Job Search Filter Results Work type Auxiliary 0 Instructional Faculty - Temporary/Lecturer 7 Instructional Faculty – Tenured/Tenure-Track 12 Management (MPP) 0 Non-Instructional Faculty (Coach/Counselor/Librarian) 7 Special Consultant 0 Staff 0 Locations Southern California San Bernardino - Palm Desert Campus 3 San Bernardino - San Bernardino Campus 24 Categories Appointment Type At-Will 0 Probationary 0 Temporary 12 Tenured/Tenure-Track 14 Bargaining Unit Confidential 0 Excluded 0 Executive 0 MPP 0 Unit 1 - UAPD - Union of American Physicians/Dentists 0 Unit 2 - CSUEU - Health Care Support 0 Unit 3 - CFA - California Faculty Association 26 Unit 4 - APC - Academic Professionals of California 0 Unit 5 - CSUEU - Operations and Support Services 0 Unit 6 - Teamsters Local 2010 0 Unit 7 - CSUEU - Clerical and Administrative Support Services 0 Unit 8 - SUPA - State University Police Association 0 Unit 9 - CSUEU - Technical Support Services 0 Job Search Category/Discipline Administrative 0 Athletics 5 Child/Youth Education and Development 0 Compliance/Legal 0 Counselor (Non-instructional Faculty) 0 Custodial/Facilities 0 Education Support Professionals 0 Faculty - Behavioral Sciences 9 Faculty - Communications/Journalism 1 Faculty - Computer Science 1 Faculty - Education/Library Science 3 Faculty - Health Sciences 2 Faculty - Letters/Humanities 2 Faculty - Social Sciences 2 Finance/Accounting 0 Fundraising & Alumni Relations 0 Health Professionals 0 Human Resources 0 Information Systems & Technology 0 Librarian (Non-instructional Faculty) 2 Library 0 Marketing/Communications 0 Research 0 Safety 0 Student Services 0 Trades 0 Time Basis Full Time 16 Part Time 10 Time Varies 1 Footer Region California State University, San Bernardino 5500 University Parkway, San Bernardino CA 92407 +1 (909) 537-5000 Footer Social Media Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Footer Menu Login myCoyote Blackboard Student Email Faculty & Staff Email Of Interest to... Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Full-Time Faculty Part-Time Faculty Community & Visitors Alumni & Friends University Partners Military/Veterans Employment Job Listings Faculty Jobs Career Center Human Resources Student Employment Resources Contact Annual Safety Reports Title IX Notice Disclosure of Consumer Information Acrobat Reader MS Office Viewers Campus Services Academic Advising Housing & Residential Life Ombuds Services Parking Police Psychological Counseling Services to Students with Disabilities Student Health Center Transcripts Footer Bar Menu Accessibility Privacy and Security Website Copyright/DMCA Policy