Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Family Medical Leave of Absence You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Family Medical Leave of Absence About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) provides eligible employees with up to 12 weeks of leave to care for a newborn or newly adopted child, to recuperate from their own serious illness, or to care for a seriously ill family member. The act also provides up to 26 weeks of unpaid leave to care for family members wounded while serving on active duty. Contents FMLA Eligibility and ProvisionsQualifying EventsApplying For FMLAReturn to WorkDisability InsuranceContact Us FMLA Eligibility and Provisions Eligibility An employee who has worked for the university for at least 12 months and has worked at least 1,250 hours for the university during the previous 12-month period. Eligibility is determined at the time the employee requests the leave. For further information about time accrual, contact your timekeeper for additional information. Provisions Eligible employees are entitled to 12 weeks of FMLA leave during any 12-month period. The leave can only be used for qualifying events. In certain circumstances, the act entitles eligible specified family members in the military. Up to 12 weeks of leave for certain qualifying exigencies* arising out of a covered military member's active duty status, or notification of an impending call or order to active duty status, in support of a contingency operation, and up to 26 weeks of leave in a single 12-month period to care for a covered family member** serving in the military or National Guard recovering from a serious injury or illness incurred while on active duty. Eligible employees are entitled to a combined total of up to 26 weeks of all types of FMLA leave during the single 12-month period. The Family Medical Leave Act grants employment and benefits protection for associated absences. During the leave, employees must continue maintaining their contribution(s) towards their benefit coverage. *Qualifying exigency A qualifying exigency is defined as one or more of the following: short notice (seven days or less) deployment, military events and related activities, child care, school activities, financial and legal arrangements, counseling, rest and recuperation, post-deployment activities, and any other events which arise out of the covered military member’s active duty or call to active duty status that the employer and employee have agreed upon. **Family members include the employee’s spouse, the employee’s parent, the employee's certified domestic partner, and the employee’s natural or adopted child or dependent stepchild. Qualifying Events Eligible employees may apply for FMLA under these circumstances. Recuperate from their own serious health condition Care for a newborn or newly adopted child Care for a seriously ill family member Care for an injured family member that is in the military Placement of a foster child Serious Health Condition A serious health condition is an illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition which involves either an overnight stay in a medical care facility or continuing treatment by a healthcare provider for a condition that either prevents the staff member from performing the functions of the staff member’s job, or prevents the qualified family member from participating in school or other daily activities. Under the FMLA, covered serious health conditions include Definition of the serious health conditions covered by FMLA pregnancy: care of a newborn, or placement of an adopted or foster child. in-patient care: overnight stay in a hospital, hospice or residential medical care facility. absence plus treatment: incapacity of more than three (3) consecutive calendar days which involves two (2) treatments or one (1) treatment resulting in a “regiment of continuing treatment." chronic conditions: those that require periodic visits, continue over extended periods or cause episodic incapacity (e.g., asthma, diabetes, epilepsy). permanent/long-term conditions: those where treatment may not be effective but an individual needs medical supervision (e.g., Alzheimer’s, stroke, terminal stages of a disease). multiple treatments for nonchronic conditions: e.g., cancer, arthritis, kidney disease. Applying for FMLA The leave may be requested or approved for either a continuous duration or on an intermittent basis. It is highly recommended that an employee on FMLA make reasonable effort to schedule time away so as not to disrupt the department’s operation. Temple University requires employees to use all unused sick time when appropriate under the leave policy, vacation, and other accrued and personal times. When an employee exhausts all paid time off, the balance of their leave becomes unpaid. To Apply To apply, log in and navigate to TUportal > Staff Tools tab > Employee Dashboard channel. Scroll down to Additional Links and select Leave of Absence Request; or call our office at 215-926-2282. After your request is received, the Absence Management Department will send you the necessary application leave packet. Returning the Application Forms The completed application forms can be returned to the Absence Management Department via Drop off in-person, Email to loa@temple.edu or Fax to 215-926-2274. After Absence Management receives the completed application forms, we will contact you within five (5) days as to the decision of your leave request. Apply via TUportal All personal and medical information provided to Absence Management is held in strict confidence. Return to Work An employee who takes time off under FMLA for their own serious health condition will be required to submit to our office a Fitness-for-duty Certification before returning to work. The certification must be completed by the employee’s healthcare provider (HCP). The Fitness-for-duty Certification confirms that the employee is able to return to work with the ability to carry out all the essential functions of their job. If an employee’s HCP is recommending a return to work with limitations, the certification of the employee’s ability to return to work and the details of the recommended limitations, must be submitted 10 days prior to the employee’s scheduled return date. The Absence Management Department will review and determine the university’s ability to accommodate the work limitation(s). An employee may not return to work without submitting a complete Fitness-for-duty Certification to the Absence Management Department. Failure to return to work as scheduled may constitute a violation and result in sanctions as outlined in the Rules of Conduct. Disability Insurance Disability insurance is available to eligible faculty and staff. Plans provide a level of income replacement, as well as continued benefits plan coverage, when an employee becomes disabled and is unable to work. The level of coverage may vary depending on the employee’s job classification and/or any applicable collective bargaining agreement. See additional information on disability insurance. Contact Us For questions regarding the Family Medical Leave Act, call 215-926-2282 or email loa@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.