Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Job Search Prep Informational Interviewing Informational interviews are one of the best ways to explore career paths and expand your network. Unlike a job interview, the goal of an informational interview is primarily to gather information about a career path or organization, not get a job. Additionally, you are the one asking questions. Four steps to the perfect informational interview 1. Identify your interview subject: Start with people with whom you're most comfortable (e.g., friends and family), even if they don’t work in an area that seems appealing to you initially; you may be surprised by what you learn. They may also be able to connect you with someone who is familiar with your desired career field. 2. Ask for 20 minutes: Most people have 20 minutes of spare time in their day for a conversation. Ask “I’m looking for some advice and information – could you spare 20 minutes for me next week to talk about your career path?” 3. Prepare questions: Take the time to think about what you’d really like to know about the individual’s career path. You might ask about the person’s work background, education and training requirements, what a typical day is like, and whether they have any advice about entering this field. Be sure to ask if they can recommend anyone else you might speak with regarding your career interests to keep your momentum going. Here is a list of great sample questions for your interview subject: Tell me about your career path. How did you get started doing this? What education and training did you need to do this? What are critical skills that you need to have for this field? What is an average day like? What are your major responsibilities? What are some upcoming trends/challenges to the field that I should know about? What advice would you give someone thinking about entering this field? Do you know of anyone else that I could contact? 4. Stay in contact: Send a handwritten thank you note to each person with whom you speak Follow up on occasion and updated them on your career search. Informational Interviewing Resources KU Mentoring Vault: Company Info Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.