Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries Virtual Resources & Services While we are in our offices on-campus, we are still able to meet you virtually! Students: We are eager to assist you! Virtual Career Counseling Virtual Drop-In Career Assessments Virtual Mock Interviews Document Reviews Internship FAQ's during COVID-19 UPIC Internships Virtual Assistance Cooperative Education Students Searching for Jobs and Internships Virtual Events Career Fairs CPT Approval Process Employers: Connecting you with students! Host Virtual Info Sessions Schedule Virtual Interviews Post Your Job and Internship Opportunities Internship Program Assistance Cooperative Education Company Partners Career Fairs Employer Relations Assistance Faculty and Staff: We are here to assist! Virtual Class Workshops UPIC Mentors CU Stay Connected Resource Guide Virtual Career Counseling Appointments Our counseling staff is available for 30 minute and 1 hour virtual Zoom appointments. Appointments are available 10 am to 11:30 am and 1:30 pm to 4 pm Monday through Friday. We are here to assist you with your job or internship search questions, your career interests and direction, graduate and professional school search, interview preparation, and/or accepting job offers. In addition, we can discuss your career interests and interpreting the Strong Interest Inventory and/or TypeFocus assessments (see Career Assessments). We are also available to review your documents such as resumes, cover letters, graduate school essays and applications (see Document Reviews). To schedule an appointment or to ask a question, please email cucareercenter@gmail.com. Return to the Top Virtual Drop-Ins Our counseling staff is available for 10 to 15 minute virtual Zoom sessions. Drop-Ins are available 1:30 pm to 3:45 pm Monday through Friday. To get the Zoom link for drop-ins, start a chat with a staff member from our chat feature on our web page. Return to the Top Career Assessments Our career counseling staff offers career assessments that can assist with major choice and career direction. Career assessments are available 10 am to 11:30 am and 1:30 pm to 4 pm Monday through Friday. Appointments need to be scheduled AFTER you have taken a career assessment. To take the Strong Interest Inventory or TypeFocus or to learn more about these inventories, follow this link: Take Career Assessments. Arrange an appointment to discuss your Strong Interest Inventory or TypeFocus assessment by emailing cucareercenter@gmail.com Return to the Top Virtual Mock Interviews Our counseling staff is available for 1 hour virtual Zoom mock interviews. In addition, we have an Employer in Residence - a Retired GE Executive - available for 30-minute mini mock interviews. Mock Interviews are available 10 am to 11:30 am and 1:30 pm to 4 pm Monday through Friday and must be scheduled TWO WEEKS prior to the desired interview date. To request a virtual mock interview, please complete this form. Return to the Top CPT Approval Process INT 8010 CPT Advising: If you have a 130 form and need CPT approval from the career center, email your 130 form and a copy of your offer letter to bnewsom@clemson.edu. The offer letter must include: start/end dates, pay, hours per week, and job description. Questions about which INT course to take? Email bnewsom@clemson.edu. Co-op CPT Advising: Students enrolled in Co-op with a Co-op offer should call (864) 656-3150 to schedule a time for advising. Return to the Top Document Reviews Our staff is available for 30 minute virtual document reviews through Zoom. You can have any career or graduate school related materials, documents such as resumes, cover letters, and graduate school application essays or statements of purpose, reviewed by our staff. Document reviews are available 10 am to 11:30 am and 1:30 pm to 4 pm Monday through Friday. To schedule a document review appointment, please email cucareercenter@gmail.com and a staff member will be in touch to schedule your appointment. Return to the Top Internships and COVID-19 FAQ's As students are continuing with their internships during this uncertain time, we thought it prudent to touch base about spring and summer internship experiences. You will find frequently asked questions and answers on the linked document below that address concerns for all internship programs (international, stateside, and UPIC). The questions cover working remotely, mentor/intern correspondences, incomplete INT assignments, unfulfilled hours, and UPIC contact information. Please follow this link to review frequently asked questions regarding internships: Internships and COVID-19 FAQ's. Return to the Top UPIC Internships Virtual Assistance All of our internship sites and experiences are now operating remotely/virtually for spring term and summer term. UPIC Intern Time Sheet Submissions: All timesheets must be submitted via email to upicpay@clemson.edu. There will not be an option to drop off timesheets at our office since the University is closed. All timesheets must include signatures for both the mentor and the intern Digital signatures are acceptable If you do not have Adobe Pro downloaded on your computer, you can download it from Clemson’s software website found here: https://ccit.clemson.edu/support/faculty-staff/software/software-licenses/ If you have questions about timesheets, the best way to contact us is to email us at upicpay@clemson.edu. We will be checking email regularly between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday-Friday For Site Visits, Resume Reviews and Mock Interviews, or for any general question about your internship, contact your UPIC site coordinator: Caren Kelly-Hall, Lisa Robinson, or Jenna Tucker. For questions about INT 1510 and 2510 please contact Lisa Robinson. For questions about INT 1520, 1530, 1540, 2520, 2530 or 2540 please contact Caren Kelley-Hall. General Questions about UPIC: Email UPICPAY@Clemson.edu You may also contact any of our UPIC staff directly: Caren Kelley-Hall, EdD, caren@clemson.edu Associate Director of University Professional Internship Program Lisa Robinson, JD, lrobin3@clemson.edu Associate Director of University Professional Internship Program Jenna Tucker, MEd, jennat@clemson.edu Assistant Director of University Professional Internship Program Kelly Coffin, kcoffin@clemson.edu Program Coordinator Toni Becker, tbecker@clemson.edu Program Coordinator Return to the Top Cooperative Education Students Clemson University’s first priority is the health and well-being of students. As a participant in an off-campus experiential learning program, including Cooperative Education, you can pursue any of the options outlined below to fulfill the rotation of your co-op assignment: If provisions have been made for you to work remotely, you are encouraged to continue with your assignment through your previously established date of completion. If you are still physically reporting to your work site, you can: Request the opportunity to work remotely until your assignment is complete or until government officials discontinue COVID-19 precautions, OR Discontinue your assignment and return home, OR Continue following the on-site work schedule of your host company if you feel safe and comfortable doing so. Regardless of what course of action you choose, you will receive full academic credit for the work you’ve completed once you’ve submitted the final requirements for the program. If you need assistance with establishing a certain course of action with your host company, please contact your co-op advisor. Feel free to seek advice and input from your family as you make this important decision. Thank you for your patience as we continue working towards the best possible resolution for co-op assignments. Your host company has received a similar notification and we will encourage them to have a conversation with you about your particular situation. If you have additional questions, please contact your co-op advisor or program director, Dr. Jeff Neal, by email. Alison Fecher, afecher@clemson.edu (EE, CompE, Comp Sci., BioE) Monique Elmore, moniqug@clemson.edu (IE, Materials Eng., Business majors) Shauna Hines, shaunah@clemson.edu (ME) Maria Torres, mariam@clemson.edu (ChemE, Civil Eng., BioSystems Eng., Environmental Eng.) Dr. Jeff Neal, jfneal@clemson.edu, Director Pam Hawthorne, hollanp@clemson.edu, Administrative Assistant Return to the Top Job and Internship Searching There are a wide variety of services and resources you can use when searching for job and internship opportunities. Job Searching During COVID-19: Job searching during this time is going to require you to be more proactive. We haveput together some tips to help you navigate the process during this time ClemsonJobLink: ClemsonJobLink is powered by Symplicity, the world's largest network of college and university career centers and includes over 5 million employers. Through ClemsonJobLink, students are able to connect not only with employers who are directly seeking Clemson graduates, but also with employers across the country who are posting at numerous colleges and universities. Included in the CJL platform, we are now offering additional curated postings from the southeast which includes remote and virtual internship opportunities. If you are having difficulties accessing ClemsonJobLink, please see the table below for solutions. Student Passwords: The ClemsonJobLink system is accessed through the University’s authentication system. If you cannot remember your Clemson student ID or password (the same ones you use to access iRoar), please contact the CCIT help desk for assistance. Alumni Passwords: To have your password reset, please complete and submit this form. We will send you an email with log-in instructions as soon as we can process your request. Students and Alumni who need their account reset: To have your password reset, please complete and submit this form. We will send you an email with log-in instructions as soon as we can process your request. Other assistance: Please email Dave Sargent at dsargen@clemson.edu. Virtual Career Fairs: The Career Center will be posting announcements for Virtual Career Fairs as well as other virtual events such as virtual Graduate School Fairs. Each virtual event will be posted under announcements on our home page or can be found on our events page. Virtual Mock Interviews: Practice your interview skills before going through a formal interview. Our counseling staff is available for 1 hour virtual Zoom mock interviews. In addition, we have an Employer in Residence - a Retired GE Executive - available for 30-minute mini mock interviews. Interviews are available 10 am to 11:30 am and 1:30 pm to 4 pm Monday through Friday and must be scheduled ONE WEEK prior to the desired interview date. To request a virtual mock interview, please complete this form. CareerShift: CareerShift offers the most comprehensive online resource, designed to support the # 1 request of job seekers: an easy-to-use web site to conduct and organize their job search. GoinGlobal: GoinGlobal is the ultimate international job seeker's guide! Updated continually, this massive research tool contains more than 10,000 resources for finding employment at home and abroad. Students seeking internships and employement abroad will value the country guides found within GoingGlobal. CareerSpots Videos: CareerSpots - Watch, learn and get the job! CareerSpots is a Pennsylvania-based company that specializes in creating career advice content and videos to empower students to develop their careers. Their dedicated team of highly experienced video producers, videographers, and web developers create and curate engaging digital content to educate and inspire learners of all ages. Click Here to access our videos. Click here to view all of our Job Search Resources Return to the Top Virtual Events We have moved our events online! We will be hosting all our professional development events on Zoom. To view all the virtual events happening, simply go to our Events page and review the upcoming events. Participation is easy! To participate, follow the RSVP directions for each event. Click here to view our upcoming events! CCPD Events Return to the Top Career Fairs We are working hard to bring you more employers and exciting Fair opportunities. We have scheduled our Fall Career Fairs and are looking forward to seeing you all this Fall. If you have any questions regarding our Career Fairs, please email mebundr@clemson.edu. Virtual Career Fairs for Spring and Summer hosted by third-party affiliates will continue to be updated here: CCPD Events Save the Dates! The Virtual Fall Career Fairs have been scheduled. The Technology, Construction, Manufacturing, Sciences, and Engineering focused industries fair: September 29th and 30th, 2020, 9:00 am - 4 pm. Social Sciences, Humanities, and Business focused industries fair: October 1st, 2020, 9:00 am - 4 pm. Return to the Top Virtual Information Sessions We have gone online and so have our students! We are using platforms such as Zoom with our students and we encourage employers to utilize online platforms such as Zoom or WebEx to schedule virtual information sessions. If you schedule a virtual information session, please email Sharon Frye at ssfrye@clemson.edu so we can advertise your info session to our students. If we can be of any other assistance or if you have questions about Information Sessions, please also direct them to Sharon Frye at ssfrye@clemson.edu. Return to the Top Virtual Interviews We have gone online and so have our students! While our physical interview rooms are not available, you can still interview our students online. We encourage employers to utilize online platforms such as Zoom, WebEx or Skype to schedule virtual interviews with our students. If you want to schedule virtual interviews for a position in ClemsonJobLink or if you have questions about virtual interviews, please direct them to Lona Dusnton at lonad@clemson.edu. Return to the Top Job and Internship Postings ClemsonJobLink: ClemsonJobLink is our online job posting system and is your best way to get your job or internship opportunity in front of Clemson students and recent alumni. If you are having difficulties accessing ClemsonJobLink, please see the table below for solutions. Employers without Recruit Accounts: Employers WITHOUT a Symplicity Recruit account may email Dave Sargent at dsargen@clemson.edu for assistance. Symplicity Recruit Accounts: Employers WITH Symplicity Recruit accounts may contact Symplicity's Recruit support at 703-647-3143 or complete their support web form at https://www.symplicity.com/support/campus-recruiting-support. Employer Passwords: If you need your password reset you may also click the Reset Password link here or on the Recruit Log-in screen. Other assistance: Please email Dave Sargent at dsargen@clemson.edu. New or Prospective Employers: If you are a new or prospective employer and have questions about recruiting at Clemson University, please email Deb Herman at dherman@clemson.edu. For more information about recruiting at Clemson, click here. Job Postings: If you have questions about Job Postings in ClemsonJobLink, please direct them to Sharon Frye at ssfrye@clemson.edu. Return to the Top Employer Internship Services There are a lot of ways to still offer an internship experience for students this summer. In addition to the traditional, on-site experiences, many companies are offering virtual internships and shortened, remote-work opportunities. To post your opportunity, see our Job and Internship Postings information. Questions about recruiting and/or supervising interns: The best way to contact us is via email. We will be checking email regularly between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday-Friday. Please contact: Email: Brittany Neely, bnewsom@clemson.edu and Cc: tnunama@clemson.edu Return to the Top Cooperative Education Company Partners Clemson University’s first priority is the health and well-being of students. As the host company of a co-op student, we wanted to let you know the University has determined that students uncomfortable remaining in their co-op assignments may discontinue participation and still receive full academic credit. Students who are now working remotely on their co-op assignments are being encouraged to continue through their previously established dates of completion. Students who are still reporting to their work sites have been encouraged to pursue one of the following options: Request the opportunity to work remotely until the assignment is over or until government officials discontinue COVID-19 precautions Continue following the on-site work schedule of their host company if the student feels safe and comfortable doing so Make arrangements to discontinue the assignment and return home If the possibility exists for your student to work remotely, we would ask this option be offered first. If remote work is not a possibility, please speak with your student at your earliest convenience to explain the available alternatives so decisions can be made expeditiously. Students who discontinue their assignments may still have bills to pay while no longer having income to meet those costs, so please be as flexible and understanding as possible. The co-op students you are hosting have been asked to provide information about their status and plan through a Google form. If you need to contact the co-op advisor for your students or the program director, Dr. Jeff Neal, we are providing that contact information below. Again, we are grateful for your partnership and wish the best for you during these challenging times. Alison Fecher, afecher@clemson.edu (EE, CompE, Comp Sci., BioE) Monique Elmore, moniqug@clemson.edu (IE, Materials Eng., Business majors) Shauna Hines, shaunah@clemson.edu (ME) Maria Torres, mariam@clemson.edu (ChemE, Civil Eng., BioSystems Eng., Environmental Eng.) Dr. Jeff Neal, jfneal@clemson.edu, Director Pam Hawthorne, hollanp@clemson.edu, Administrative Assistant Return to the Top Career Fairs We are working hard to bring you more opportunities to connect with our students. We have scheduled our Fall Career Fairs and are looking forward to seeing you this Fall. If you have any questions regarding our Career Fairs, please email Lisa Bundrick at mebundr@clemson.edu. Opportunities to connect with students and alumni with Virtual Career Fairs for Spring and Summer hosted by third-party affiliates will continue to be updated here: CCPD Events Save the Dates! The Virtual Fall Career Fairs have been scheduled. The Technology, Construction, Manufacturing, Sciences, and Engineering focused industries fair: September 29th and 30th, 2020, 9 am - 4pm Social Sciences, Humanities, and Business focused industries fair: October 1st, 2020, 9 am - 4pm Click here for Detailed Information and Registration Return to the Top Employer Relations Assistance We are here to assist you remotely with your hiring needs! Below you will find our contact information next to the areas with which we can help you. Our team will be checking email regularly between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday-Friday. For questions regarding: Recruiting, engaging with students and the corporate partner program: Deb Herman, dherman@clemson.edu. Career fairs and virtual events: Lisa Bundrick, mebundr@clemson.edu Posting opportunities, virtual information sessions and webinars: Sharon Frye, ssfrye@clemson.edu Virtual interviews and after fair interviews: Lona Dunston, lonad@clemson.edu Return to the Top Virtual Workshops We are still able to present to your class! To request a virtual workshop for your class, please complete our workshop request form. Once completed, we will work to schedule a staff member to conduct your workshop and will email you with a confirmation. For additional information about how we can help your students, please contact Heather Cook at hdc@clemson.edu. In addition, we have created a number of webinars you can access from our website on our Online Workshops page or our YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSfZow75Y1zFLvBFvkpY_RQ/videos. Finally, we will be holding all our professional development events online via Zoom. Your students can view all the virtual events happening by simply going to our Events page and reviewing the upcoming events. Participation is easy! To participate, students and faculty can follow the RSVP directions for each event. Click here to view our upcoming events! CCPD Events Return to the Top UPIC Mentors All of our internship sites and experiences are now operating remotely/virtually for spring term and summer term. UPIC Hiring for Summer or Fall: Questions regarding hiring for Summer 2020 or Fall 2020 should be directed to upicpay@clemson.edu. You may also email Kelly Coffin at kcoffin@clemson.edu or Toni Becker at tbecker@clemson.edu General Questions about UPIC: Email UPICPAY@Clemson.edu You may also contact any of our UPIC staff directly: Caren Kelley-Hall, EdD, caren@clemson.edu Associate Director of University Professional Internship Program Lisa Robinson, JD, lrobin3@clemson.edu Assistant Director of University Professional Internship Program Jenna Tucker, MEd, jennat@clemson.edu Assistant Director of University Professional Internship Program Kelly Coffin, kcoffin@clemson.edu Program Coordinator Toni Becker, tbecker@clemson.edu Program Coordinator Return to the Top Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift