Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries About Us Ask us a Question Contact Us Staff Directory Org Chart Corporate Partners Data and Analytics Directions to the CCPD Our Career Ambassadors Our Co-op Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Privacy Policy COVID-19 Virtual Services cooperative education internship programs Michelin Career Center Career Development and Job Search Parent and Family Resources Employer Services About Us The Center for Career and Professional Development was created through the merger of the Cooperative Education Program and The Michelin Career Center. In addition, the UPIC Program was created to manage and facilitate our extensive on-campus internship and cooperative education program. The career center offers many unique services, such as career workshops, on-campus interviewing, experiential education opportunities (co-op program and internship programs), and others. The Center is located in a state-of-the-art facility on the third floor of the Hendrix Student Center. Most of these services are available during all regular business hours. Some specialized services are available only at certain times during the week. OUR VISION STATEMENT Connecting educational experiences with professional aspirations. OUR MISSION STATEMENT Engaging students in career development and experiential learning activities that will empower them to successfully pursue their educational and professional goals. OUR DIVERSITY STATEMENT We strive to educate ourselves and others about the issues of a pluralistic society. We are committed to reaching beyond views of individuals to value a community that appreciates and learns individuals’ similarities and differences. Our services and programs seek to create a safe environment that affirms the dignity and worth of everyone. We demonstrate the commitment by embracing differences, including those differences that are not visually apparent. Appointments and Drop-in Schedules Cancellation and No-Show Policy for Scheduled Appointments: If you need to reschedule or cancel your appointment, please notify our office 24 hours in advance. This allows our staff to offer your appointment time to another student, who is in need of our services. Failure to cancel your appointment within 24 hours, more than once, will result in losing your appointment privileges for the semester; however, you may still utilize our drop-in services. Spring Schedule: Appointments: Students can call (864) 656-0440 to schedule an individual in-person or virtual appointment with a counselor for questions or assistance. Appointments are available 10 am to 11:30 am and 1:30 pm to 4 pm Monday through Friday. You can also email our staff at cucareercenter@gmail.com to schedule an appointment. Drop-in Counseling Hours: Students may drop-in for quick, 15 minute one-on-one counseling sessions from 1:30 pm to 3:45 pm, Monday - Friday. Virtual Drop-in Counseling Hours: Students may request a quick, 15 minute one-on-one virtual counseling session from 1:30 pm to 3:45 pm, Monday through Friday by starting a chat session with a member of our staff. The on-call staff member will provide the Zoom link for the day through the chat wiindow. The chat feature is located to the bottom right of our home page. You can also email our staff at cucareercenter@gmail.com Virtual Services: We are here to assist you! Visit our virtual services page to see all of our virtual services. INT 8010 CPT Advising: If you have a 130 form and need CPT approval from the career center, email your 130 form and a copy of your offer letter to bnewsom@clemson.edu. The offer letter must include: start/end dates, pay, hours per week, and job description. Questions about which INT course to take? Email bnewsom@clemson.edu. Co-op CPT Advising: Students enrolled in Co-op with a Co-op offer should call (864) 656-3150 to schedule a time for advising. Monday - Friday, 8 am to 4:30 pm. Information Contact Information Directions to the CCPD Org Chart Privacy Policy Data and Analytics Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift