Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries About Us Ask us a Question Contact Us Staff Directory Org Chart Corporate Partners Data and Analytics Directions to the CCPD Our Career Ambassadors Our Co-op Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Privacy Policy COVID-19 Virtual Services cooperative education internship programs Michelin Career Center Career Development and Job Search Parent and Family Resources Employer Services Itron At Itron, it all begins with knowledge: the knowledge of charismatic leaders, talented professionals, and skilled staff. The collective wisdom, experience and savvy of our people is our greatest source of pride and forms the rock-solid foundation of our position as an industry leader. As highly as we value this leadership role in the energy and water markets, we value even more highly the roles of our people - from respected employees, to community contributors, to cherished family members. And, support for these values is intricately woven into the fabric of our culture. We embrace diversity and creativity, innovation and experimentation, teamwork and collaboration. Come, embrace these values with us. Add to our knowledge as only you can. Visit Itron's website at http://www.itron.com. We appreciate our corporate partners. Learn more about the Corporate Partner Program. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift