University Links Webmail Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Social Links Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Log in Human Resources Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Human Resources Site Menu Menu Careers Submenu Discover Princeton Submenu More Impact Than You Can Imagine Working at Princeton on YouTube Get to Know Us #Princetagram Diversity & Inclusion The Princeton Area Search Opportunities Submenu Find Your Career Career Centers Featured Jobs How We Hire Recruiter Tips New Hires Submenu Welcome to Princeton University @WorkingAtPrinceton Getting Started New Hire Orientation Housing Resources Life Submenu Community Submenu Life at Princeton Experience Our Community Princetagram Inclusive Princeton Employee Resource Groups Living in Princeton — New Jersey Campus Resources Professional Development Submenu Opportunities Learning Programs & Certificates Staff Educational Assistance Plan Performance Management & MIP Recognition Programs & Awards Service Recognition Program Working at Princeton Submenu Life at Princeton Work & Pay Schedules Flexibility & Time Off Compensation Commuting & Transportation Thrive Submenu Health Submenu Benefits at Princeton Healthcare Plans Benefits Plan Documents & Provider Contacts Eligibility & Enrollment Flexible Spending Accounts Disability & Leave Benefits Wellness Submenu Wellness Resources Physical Wellness Mental Wellness Financial Wellness Work Life Decision Support Employee Assistance Program Retirement & Financial Submenu Retirement & Financial Retirement Plans Financial Wellness Tuition Assistance Income Protection Financial Benefits Flexible Spending Accounts Discount & Affiliate Programs MyHR Submenu Working Submenu Community & Inclusion Health & Wellness Employment Professional Development New Hires Managing Submenu Management & Supervision Organizational Development Performance Management Professional Development Onboarding Recruiting Submenu Launch a Search Select Candidates Make a Hire HR Directory Submenu Office of the Vice President Senior Leadership Team Benefits & Compensation Client Services Communications Human Resources Information Systems Talent Acquisition Policies Submenu HR Policy & Procedures Manual COVID-19 Policies & Procedures University Policies Workplace Notices Collective Bargaining Agreements Other Policies Policy Updates Events News Quick Links SubMenu CAPS Login Employee Learning Center Employment & Income Verifications Forms Healthcare Plans HR Directory HR Self Service Policies Time & Absence Management Toolkits Update Personal Information University Links Webmail Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Social Links Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Log in Search Search More Impact Than You Can Imagine Our mission provides every staff member the opportunity to make a meaningful impact. careers Discover Princeton Search Opportunities New Hires Email Print Home Careers Search Opportunities Announcement In order to ensure a healthy and safe work environment, Princeton University is requiring all employees to be fully vaccinated, including subsequent boosters, and provide proof of their COVID-19 vaccine status before their start date. Employees who cannot receive the vaccine because of a disability/medical contraindication or sincerely-held religious belief may request an accommodation (e.g., an exemption) to this requirement. Learn more about the COVID-19 vaccine requirement. This requirement helps enable our employees to thrive in their careers at Princeton and make the greatest impact on all those we serve through the University. Find Your Career Every day is a new opportunity to find purpose in your work—from our beautiful grounds and remarkable buildings to our research labs and cultural facilities. Whether you’re already part of our community or just getting to know us for the first time, we invite you to imagine the meaningful difference you can make while working at Princeton. Search & Apply Career Centers We offer many different types of jobs. Visit any of our career centers to search and apply for positions, join our Talent Network, and log in through the Career Center to which you applied to check the status of an application. For faculty and academic professionals, apply on our AHIRE site. Join Our Talent Network All Staff Positions Staff positions on Main Campus and at Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory Search & Apply Administrative & Professional Managerial, supervisory, coaching, technology, and office support positions Search & Apply Returning Applicant Login Service & Maintenance Operating engineers, grounds, building services, trades, laboratory support, technical, and campus security Search & Apply Returning Applicant Login Predoctoral Research Research staff and support positions Search & Apply Returning Applicant Login Internal Staff All posted staff positions, including jobs available only to current benefits-eligible employees Internal Career Center Login Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory Staff positions at the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory Search & Apply Returning Applicant Login Featured Jobs Campus Dining Positions Campuswide Apply Financial Services & Grants Positions Campuswide Apply Information Technology Positions Campuswide Apply Health & Safety Positions Campuswide Apply Staff Research & CLIA Lab Positions Campuswide Apply Engineering Positions Campuswide Apply How We Hire Employees—in every area—are one of Princeton University’s most valued resources. Hiring the very best and most talented people is key to sustaining our excellent work environment and enabling Princeton to maintain its status as one of the world’s most outstanding centers for higher education. Individuals with a disability who are unable or limited in ability to use or access the careers website can request a reasonable accommodation by contacting the University’s Office of Digital Accessibility. To request a reasonable accommodation during the application or interview process, contact the Talent Acquisition Team. Learn more about Princeton's hiring process by expanding these menus. Connect | Explore Princeton Visit our career center to search all staff job postings or join our talent community to be matched with similar positions as they become available and be sure to follow us on Instagram, LinkedIn, or YouTube. At Princeton University, we encourage employee referrals as an effective way for recruiting top talent. Benefits-eligible staff members can refer an individual by using the Make a Referral button available on the job posting in the Internal Staff Career Center. Apply | Be Prepared Review the job posting carefully—candidates have greater success when their experience strongly matches our job requirements. Have a resume prepared and accessible for upload as well as any additional documents, e.g. a cover letter or writing sample, if required. The time it takes to complete a job search can vary, sometimes taking several months, and is unique to the position. Throughout the process, updates will be available in the candidate dashboard. TIP: Cover letters are often requested and reviewed. Assessment | First Impressions Resumes are reviewed by a staff member for qualifications that match to the skills and requirements detailed in the job posting. It may take several weeks or more to complete a thorough review of all resumes received. Phone screens are typically a part of the review process. Some positions also require applicants to successfully complete an assessment in order to move forward in the hiring process. TIP: The three key elements to a successful phone screen are to be available at the time agreed, be prepared to answer questions about information submitted with your application, and be yourself. Interview | Getting to Know Each Other Highly-qualified candidates will be invited to interview in person or by phone or video. Candidates typically meet with multiple interviewers during the interview process, often in small groups or with panels. Interviews often focus on behavioral-based interview questions that help hiring manager learn more about candidate's skills, experiences, and competencies. Plan travel time accordingly for in-person interviews including an additional 10 to 15 minutes to get from visitor parking to the interview location. If traveling to Princeton from afar, instructions on how to book travel will be provided. Because there are often multiple rounds of interviews, it may take several weeks or more to receive an update on application status. Finalists will be notified as soon as a decision is made. TIP: Have questions ready to ask us about the work, the team, and the culture; anything that will help determine if this is the right opportunity. References | Seeking Feedback If selected as a finalist, reference checks will be initiated with at least 3-5 individuals through an online survey. The reference check process is normally completed prior to an offer of employment. TIP: Inform references in advance that they will be contacted by Princeton to ensure a quick completion of the reference check process. Offer | Congratulations! Offers are made verbally and followed up with in writing. All offers of employment are contingent upon the successful outcome of references checks, background check, and a pre-employment screening process, as required for the position. Once an offer is accepted, the next step of the hiring process will begin. Screens | Getting Cleared to Start Work Prior to the start of employment all new hires are required to successfully complete a background check and additional verifications, as required for the position. Background checks review employment history and previous address information for the past 7 years may take up to 2 weeks to complete. Positions with physical requirements require successful completion of a post-offer pre-employment screening (POPES) exam prior to the first day of work. It is indicated in the job posting if a POPES exam is required. Confirmation of eligibility to start will be communicated after successfully completing all required checks and screenings. TIP: Carefully read all emails and take action within the deadlines identified to avoid any delay to the start of employment. Onboarding | Welcome to Princeton! The onboarding process is designed to welcome new members of the University community and assist new hires in acclimating to their roles to become successful contributors. New staff receive an email with information to access a personalized onboarding center with important information and required tasks to assist in a smooth transition. Staff are also invited to attend a New Hire Orientation program, as outlined in the offer letter. Additionally, each department has their own onboarding process to assist in gaining a better understanding of the role and departmental structure. TIP: All newly hired faculty, staff, and casual employees are required to verify their identity and employment authorization for employment in the United States within the first three days of their first day of employment. Be sure to review the List of Acceptable Documents to determine which documents to bring to HR to complete the Form I-9. #PrincetonRecruiterTips Tips from our recruiting team to help you succeed during your job search. Connect with Us on Instagram Connect with Us on Linkedin Office of Human Resources Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Main Office 100 Overlook Center Suite 400 Princeton, NJ 08540 Phone: (609) 258-3300 Fax: (609) 258-2420 Email: Email Us Contact: Contact Us About HR Website Feedback Media Credits Clery Act Confidentiality & Privacy Equal Opportunity Policy Labor Certification Notices Notices for H-1B/E3 Employees Privacy Notice Workplace Notices Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University