Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Job Search Tools The University Career Center has several resources to support you in your job search, from narrowing down your list of ideal employers, to creating the perfect application materials, to making a great impression at your interviews. As a KU student, you also have access to HireJayhawks.com for hundreds of internship, part- and full-time job listings from employers interested in hiring KU students. Check out the resources below for more information on each topic, and for individualized help, make an appointment with a Career Coach. Preparation Tools Resumes Cover Letters Networking Employer Research Jayhawk Ready Online Image Curricula Vitae (CVs) Cover Letters Interviewing Info. Interviewing Salary Negotiation The P.H.O.G. Closet Get Started There are 5 basic steps to consider in a job search. Don’t frustrate yourself by applying for jobs before you've laid the groundwork to be successful. 1. Identify your job targets You can’t reach your destination if you don’t know where you're headed. 2. Network Make personal connections and gain useful information for career decision-making and professional advancement. 3. Research Find information on careers and employers so you can know what opportunities exist and the kind of employer for whom you'd like to work. 4. Prepare Write a resume and a cover letter, talk to your references and get ready to interview. 5. Implement the plan Implementing a job search is more than just one activity – it is a series of different activities going on at the same time. For example, on a weekly basis: Respond to job listings (10 or more). Do an informational interview. Send resumes to 5 companies based on articles you have read. Discuss job leads with 2 contacts, send follow-up resume. Select 3 companies through library/web research and send letter/resume. Attend networking events. And one bonus step... 6. Stick with it Finding a job is hard work! It can take 3 to 6 months to find your first job, depending on how much time you spend on the search. Two-thirds of job hunters spend only 5 hours/week on their job hunt. Appointments We'd love to assist you with your career planning process! The University Career Center is open Monday-Friday, 8am-5pm for both virtual and in-person appointments and virtual appointments Monday - Wednesday, 5-7pm. We have 30-60 minutes appointments available for each appointment type. Appointments can be made through our online scheduling system on HireJayhawks.com or by contacting us at 785-864-3624. Leave a message if you don't reach us. We will call you back ASAP. Featured Resources Hire Jayhawks Career Exploration Find your Career Community Jayhawk Ready How-To Guides Interviewing Job Search Resumes Accessible How-To Guides Interviewing Job Search Resumes Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.