Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Career Exploration Career Exploration Hub Utilize the exploration web hub to explore options by browsing careers, majors, and interest areas. All of the resources interconnect so you can consider majors based on career interests, explore careers based on majors, and view careers and majors associated with interest areas. Careers Careers Interest Areas Interest Areas KU Majors KU Majors Career Assessments Career Courses Graduate School Career Coaching Career Communities Career Events Other Resources Myths about careers and majors Click to expand Myth #1: Being undecided about my major is bad. There is nothing wrong with being undecided about your major; most students are undecided or question their major at some point in their academic career. Just be diligent about exploring your options and working towards a decision by the end of your sophomore year (KU requires students to declare a major after completing 60 credits). Myth #2: If I choose a major now, I won't be able to change my mind later. It's actually rather common for students to change their majors during college: the average student will change their major three to four times. Before changing your major, remember to connect with your advisor to determine how your decision might impact your four-year plan. Myth #3: There's one "right" major for me. With over 190 undergraduate majors to choose from at KU, you'll likely find at least a handful of majors that will fit your strengths and interests. Work with your academic advisor and career coach to identify programs that will meet your academic and professional goals. Myth #4: Choosing a major is directly related to choosing a career. While some college majors train students for specific careers (e.g. nursing, accounting, or teaching), most careers do not require a specific college major. In fact, a majority of college graduates have successful careers in fields not directly related to their academic majors! Myth #5: My [career coach, academic advisor, parents, career assessment] can tell me what to do. You and you alone are the best person to decide your academic and career path. While getting feedback from your parents, KU professionals, and career assessments can help you choose a major, ultimately the power is in your hands. You are the expert on you - no one knows you better! Exploration Tools Click to expand HawkQuest - Explore career and major options. Vault - Use the "Career Paths" section to learn more about industries in which you may be interested. Learn How to Become - Browse information on how to pursue a myriad of careers, as well as how to conduct an effective job search in a variety of fields and industries. CareerOneStop - Search for occupational profiles and job market trends, like fastest growing or highest paying occupations and industries. My Next Move - Explore career options by keyword, industry, interests, and education level. My Skills My Future - Search for occupations that share similar skill sets. Princeton Review's Careers & Majors Tools - Learn about academic majors and career paths; creation of a free account is required to view full profiles. KU Edwards Campus career blog – Explore career paths and degree options, find tips for effective resumes and cover letters and more. O*Net Online - Find detailed descriptions of jobs and industries; searchable by skills, interests and keywords. Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.