Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Applicant Tips You are here Home Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Tips How do I create a profile?How do I add an attachment to my application (submission)?What do I do if I forget my username?What do I do if I forget my password?How do I get my account unlocked?How do I e-sign with a valid e-signature? How do I create a profile? After you log in, you will be brought to the Job Search page. On the right-hand side, select your name. If you have not entered any information yet, your name could be your username. Once you are able to access the drop-down menu from your name, select Profile. In the Profile section you will have the option to import your Indeed profile, upload a résumé or fill out the submission manually. The right-hand side of the screen will explain the various methods of uploading information into the profile. By selecting Save and Continue, you will save the data and move to the next step in the profile. You will not be able to move to the next step until all required questions are answered. These are designated with a red asterisk *. It is recommended that you review the uploaded information for accuracy. Download Instruction (PDF) How do I add an attachment to my application (submission)? Your résumé can be uploaded when you initially create your profile but can also be updated as needed. To add a new résumé or supporting documentation to your profile, log in to your profile. On the right-hand side, select your name. Once you are able to access the drop-down menu from your name, select Profile. Select the tile labeled File Attachments. You can choose a file from your computer as you had done previously and attach it. At the bottom of the page will be a list of documents associated with your profile. Do not delete any of these, it is just showing all documents that you have uploaded in Taleo. Check off a box under Relevant Files for those you wish to show up with this application. Download Instruction (PDF) What do I do if I forget my username? From the login screen, select the link Forgot my username. You will be directed to a new screen and prompted to enter the email address you used to create your profile to recover your username. If your username is not recovered from your email address you will be redirected to a new page. In order to recover your username, you will be asked to answer questions specific to your profile. If you need additional help, please call 215-204-4008 or email taleo@temple.edu. Download Instruction (PDF) What do I do if I forget my password? You will be directed to a new screen and prompted to enter your username and the email address you used to create your profile to recover your password. An email will be sent with information on how to recover your password with an access code and a link to change your password. You will use the access code from the email to reset your password and create a new password. If you need additional help, please call 215-204-4008 or email taleo@temple.edu. Download Instruction (PDF) How do I get my account unlocked? You have attempted to access your account too many times without success. This could be due to entering an incorrect username or password too many times. You do not have to wait 24 hours to request that your account be unlocked. To unlock your account, please call 215-204-4008 or email taleo@temple.edu. Download Instruction (PDF) How do I e-sign with a valid e-signature? Your e-signature is linked to your initials. The initials in the address section of your offer letter are the initials you will use to sign your offer letter. If you have a hyphenated name you will only need the first initial of the last name. For example, Temple University-Owl’s signature would be “TU.” If your middle name is included in the offer letter, your signature would include your middle initial. For example, Philadelphia Temple University-Owl’s signature would be “PTU.” For Internal Candidates (PDF) For External Candidates (PDF) Go back to Careers at TempleMore in Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.