Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Position/Job Classification Tools You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links The primary components of Temple University’s position/job classification program for nonfaculty, nonbargaining unit positions are highlighted below. The Compensation Manual provides definitions for and an in-depth review of the program’s various components while demonstrating how the components are necessarily linked within the overall program. The role inventory, position description and compensation forms each provide expanded clarifications and links to available resources. The position/job classification program does not cover positions that are classified within a collective bargaining unit agreement (CBU). Refer to the respective CBU for the pertinent information. Contents Classification ManualRole InventoryPosition DescriptionCompensation FormsContact Us Classification Manual The purpose of this manual is to provide an overview of the objectives, policies and procedures of the position/job classification program for nonfaculty and nonbargaining unit staff at the university. The manual provides an in-depth review of the program’s various components and demonstrates how the components are necessarily linked and appropriately applied within the overall program. The Classification Manual serves as a guide and information resource and is, therefore, not meant to cover every specific instance or operating procedure. Also, the manual does not cover Temple University positions that are classified within a CBU. Position classification and compensation details for CBU positions are contained in the respective bargaining unit contractual agreements. (Classification Manual: Coming Soon) Role Inventory The role inventory is a summarized description of the university’s job roles. Read more about the Role Inventory Cross-reference Matrix. The roles (sometimes referred to as job family or family) are: administrative services, facility services, finance, health services, information and media services, leadership, professional services, protective services, student services, and technical and research services. Below is a summary definition of each of the job roles. Refer to the Classification Manual for detailed information about each role. Administrative Services Scope The administrative services (AS) role has the knowledge and skills to provide clerical, secretarial or administrative support to various departments within the university. Grade Levels The administrative services family includes six (6) grade levels. They are as follows. Administrative Services Grade Level 1 or AS-1 T21 Administrative Services Grade Level 2 or AS-2 T22 Administrative Services Grade Level 3 or AS-3 T23 Administrative Services Grade Level 4 or AS-4 T24 Administrative Services Grade Level 5 or AS-5 T25 Administrative Services Grade Level 6 or AS-6 T26 Role Inventory Cross-reference Matrix Depending on the grade level, specialized knowledge, training, expertise and education may be required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the position. For specific details of a job role and its grade levels, refer to the role inventory templates. Facility Services Scope The facility services (FS) role has a professional body of knowledge that is applied to the business operations of the university. The role primarily function as the professional building and life safety services support personnel within the university. Grade Levels The facility services family includes six (6) grade levels. They are as follows. Facility Services Grade Level 1 or FS-1 T23 Facility Services Grade Level 2 or FS-2 T24 Facility Services Grade Level 3 or FS-3 T26 Facility Services Grade Level 4 or FS-4 T27 Facility Services Grade Level 5 or FS-5 T28 Facility Services Grade Level 6 or FS-6 T30 Role Inventory Cross-reference Matrix Depending on the grade level, specialized knowledge, training, expertise and education may be required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the position. For specific details of a job role and its grade levels, refer to the role inventory templates. Finance Scope The finance (FN) role has a professional body of knowledge (encompassing budget and fiscal planning, accounting, business affairs, physician billing, internal audit, grant accounting, purchasing) that is applied to the financial operations of the university. Grade Levels The finance family includes six (6) grade levels. They are as follows. Finance Grade Level 1 or FN-1 T23 Finance Grade Level 2 or FN-2 T24 Finance Grade Level 3 or FN-3 T25 Finance Grade Level 3.5 or FN-3.5 T26 Finance Grade Level 4 or FN-4 T27 Finance Grade Level 5 or FN-5 T28 Finance Grade Level 6 or FN-6 T29 Role Inventory Cross-reference Matrix Depending on the grade level, specialized knowledge, training, expertise and education may be required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the position. For specific details of a job role and its grade levels, refer to the role inventory templates. Health Services Scope The health services (HS) role has specialized clinical knowledge in the field of medicine. All positions have clinical responsibilities, and typically must have an advanced degree or licensure. Grade Levels The health services family includes four (4) grade levels. They are as follows. Health Services Grade Level 1 or HS-1 T23 Health Services Grade Level 2 or HS-2 T24 Health Services Grade Level 3 or HS-3 T26 Health Services Grade Level 4 or HS-4 T27 Role Inventory Cross-reference Matrix Depending on the grade level, specialized knowledge, training, expertise and education may be required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the position. For specific details of a job role and its grade levels, refer to the role inventory templates. Information and Media Services Scope The information and media services (IS) role has technical knowledge of information sciences and technology applications/services (encompassing all university computing and technology-related applications, development and support services associated with technology). Grade Levels The information and media services family includes six (6) grade levels. They are as follows. Information and Media Services Grade Level 1 or IS-1 T24 Information and Media Services Grade Level 2 or IS-2 T25 Information and Media Services Grade Level 3 or IS-3 T26 Information and Media Services Grade Level 4 or IS-4 T27 Information and Media Services Grade Level 5 or IS-5 T28 Information and Media Services Grade Level 5.5 or IS-5.5 T29 Information and Media Services Grade Level 6 or IS-6 T30 Role Inventory Cross-reference Matrix Depending on the grade level, specialized knowledge, training, expertise and education may be required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the position. For specific details of a job role and its grade levels, refer to the role inventory templates. Leadership Scope The leadership (LS) role provides thought leadership to; strategic decision-making for; and management of business units, schools or departments within the university. Grade Levels The leadership role includes four (4) grade levels. They are as follows. Leadership Grade Level 1 or LS-1 T29 Leadership Grade Level 2 or LS-2 T30 Leadership Grade Level 3 or LS-3 T31 Leadership Grade Level 4 or LS-4 T32 Role Inventory Cross-reference Matrix Depending on the grade level, specialized knowledge, training, expertise and education may be required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the position. For specific details of a job role and its grade levels, refer to the role inventory templates. Professional Services Scope The professional services (PS) role has a professional body of knowledge normally acquired through an undergraduate program or higher that is applied to the business operations of the university. Grade Levels The professional services role includes seven (7) grade levels. They are as follows. Professional Services Grade Level 1 or PS-1 T23 Professional Services Grade Level 2 or PS-2 T24 Professional Services Grade Level 3 or PS-3 T25 Professional Services Grade Level 4 or PS-4 T26 Professional Services Grade Level 4.5 or PS-4.5 T27 Professional Services Grade Level 5 or PS-5 T28 Professional Services Grade Level 6 or PS-6 T29 Role Inventory Cross-reference Matrix Depending on the grade level, specialized knowledge, training, expertise and education may be required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the position. For specific details of a job role and its grade levels, refer to the role inventory templates. Protective Services Scope The protective services (SP) role has the specific training and knowledge necessary to uphold/maintain security and safety at the university. Grade Levels The protective services role includes six (6) grade levels. They are as follows. Protective Services Grade Level 1 or SP-1 T23 Protective Services Grade Level 2 or SP-2 T24 Protective Services Grade Level 3 or SP-3 T25 Protective Services Grade Level 4 or SP-4 T26 Protective Services Grade Level 5 or SP-5 T27 Protective Services Grade Level 6 or SP-6 T28 Role Inventory Cross-reference Matrix Depending on the grade level, specialized knowledge, training, expertise and education may be required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the position. For specific details of a job role and its grade levels, refer to the role inventory templates. Student Services Scope The student services (SS) role draws upon knowledge of athletics, recreation, housing, student health, entertainment services and various professional fields (enrollment, student affairs, advising, financial aid, admissions, career development) that support students, the community and/or the university. Grade Levels The Student Services role includes seven (7) grade levels. They are as follows. Student Services Grade Level 1 or SS-1 T23 Student Services Grade Level 2 or SS-2 T24 Student Services Grade Level 2.5 or SS-2.5 T25 Student Services Grade Level 3 or SS-3 T26 Student Services Grade Level 4 or SS-4 T27 Student Services Grade Level 4.5 or SS-4.5 T28 Student Services Grade Level 5 or SS-5 T29 Role Inventory Cross-reference Matrix Depending on the grade level, specialized knowledge, training, expertise and education may be required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the position. For specific details of a job role and its grade levels, refer to the role inventory templates. Technical and Research Services Scope The technical and research services (TR) role has specific technical, scientific or social expertise that advances the pursuit of knowledge. Grade Levels The technical and research services role includes six (6) grade levels. They are as follows. Technical and Research Services Grade Level 1 or TR-1 T23 Technical and Research Services Grade Level 2 or TR-2 T24 Technical and Research Services Grade Level 3 or TR-3 T25 Technical and Research Services Grade Level 4 or TR-4 T26 Technical and Research Services Grade Level 4.5 or TR-4.5 T27 Technical and Research Services Grade Level 5 or TR-5 T29 Role Inventory Cross-reference Matrix Depending on the grade level, specialized knowledge, training, expertise and education may be required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the position. For specific details of a job role and its grade levels, refer to the role inventory templates. Role Inventory Templates It is vital that a job’s role is well-defined as it also affects determining commensurate pay for the incumbent. To assist in this process, we have a compilation of templates that can be used as a reference. You can access these templates via TUportal. To access these templates, complete the following steps. Log in and navigate to TUportal > Staff Tools tab > University Forms channel. In the search box, enter the name of the job family you are seeking. Position Description The position description defines the responsibility, expertise and experience needed for the incumbent to effectively function in the position. It is created using the information derived from the Classification Manual and role inventory. To assist in this process, we have a compilation of generic position descriptions that can be used as a reference. Also, there are blank position description templates available in TUportal. To access these templates, complete the following steps. Log in and navigate to TUportal > Staff Tools tab > University Forms channel. In the search box, enter the name of the job family you are seeking. Compensation Forms Forms are accessible via the University Forms channel under the Staff Tools tab in TUportal. Using the search function, you can search by form name, office, department, school/college and/or category. Contact Us If you require additional assistance with the job classification tools, call 215-926-2302. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.