Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Job Search Prep Salary Negotiation Getting a job offer can feel like crossing the job search finish line, but before you accept an offer and do a victory lap, it's important to remember a job offer is more than just the salary. Make sure to evaluate all aspects of salary, benefits, and work/life balance before making a decision. Know your own worth. Research the average salary for your job targets and try to find the industry's salary norms by looking for job postings with salaries, finding competitors' salaries, conducting informational interviews, and visiting company websites. Evaluate your salary requirements based on how much do you need to earn and the cost of living in the job location? Be realistic about your experience and skill level, and prepare your argument based on your skills with examples from your work and school experiences. Develop a salary range with high, low, and middle expectations based on your research. Once an offer is made... Let the employer make the first move; negotiate after an offer is made, but before you accept it. Get the offer in writing so you can take your time to review it carefully; ask for clarification on anything you don't understand. Refer back to the research you did on your worth. Ask if the offer is negotiable. Know what you may be able to negotiate. Evaluate the entire package; even if the salary itself is non-negotiable, other fringe benefits might be, including: Start date Vacation/sick/disability leave Stock options Relocation expenses Tuition reimbursement Professional memberships/conferences Retirement plans Signing bonuses Finalize the process. Listen for clues the offer is final. The recruiter or manager may say something like, "This is the best we can do," or "This is our final offer." Stop when you get the sense the employer is becoming frustrated with your proposals. Make it official. Finalize the agreement when you feel the offer is fair and within a range you can accept. Accept or decline the offer both verbally and in writing. Stop your search once you accept an offer. You should not continue to pursue other employment opportunities, regardless of where you are in the search process for other positions, once you have accepted a position. Contact other companies and close any outstanding applications. Don't accept additonal interviews. Featured Resources Glassdoor Career One Stop Cost of Living Calculator U.S. DOL's Statistics Student Money Management Services Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.