Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries Events and Activities Options: Calendar: GeneralInternship ProgramMichelin Career CenterFairsGraduate Student SeminarAnnouncements Show Audience: Undergraduate Graduate Faculty/Staff Core Compentencies ALL Communication Collaboration Leadership Adaptability Analytical Skills Technology Self-Awareness Integrity & Ethics Brand Filter Search: Search Student leaders, are you wanting a professional development workshop for your club or organization members? The Center for Career and Professional Development can help you plan a successfull professional development event for your members. Click here to read our Career Consultant Booklet that will help guide you in planning a successful professional development event for your organization. Tue, Jan 10, 2017 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring 2017 Intern Orientation Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the UPIC program! The Spring Orientation welcomes new UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about the UPIC program and how to maximize the internship experience. Please use the RSVP link to register to attend one of the orientation events. This event is limited to new Spring UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Collaboration Leadership Tue, Feb 21, 2017 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! It's All About The Internship It's All About The Internship Learn how to find and get the most out of the internship experience. Participants will learn about resources available to find internships, both in the US and abroad, and the basics of how an internship program works. Please RSVP by following the provided link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Leadership Adaptability Tue, Mar 14, 2017 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Mentor Spring Lunch and Learn The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Lunch will be provided as we share mentoring best practices to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. Join us to learn more about the UPIC program, your role as a UPIC mentor and tips and techniques to become an outstanding mentor. This event is for new Mentors or Continuing Mentors seeking a refresher. Please RSVP at the linked provided. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Tue, May 16, 2017 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2017 New Intern Orientation Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! The Summer Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about the UPIC program and how to maximize the internship experience. This event is limited to new summer UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link. McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Center Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Wed, May 17, 2017 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2017 New Intern Orientation Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! The Summer Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about the UPIC program and how to maximize the internship experience. This event is limited to new summer UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link. McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Center Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Tue, Aug 22, 2017 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall Aug 22 New Intern Orientation Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! The Fall Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about the UPIC program and how to maximize the internship experience. This event is limited to new Fall UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. The August 22 UPIC Orientation is now full. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Leadership Brand Mon, Aug 28, 2017 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall Aug 28 New Intern Orientation Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! The Fall Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about the UPIC program and how to maximize the internship experience. This event is limited to new Fall UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link. McKissick Theatre Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Leadership Brand Wed, Oct 18, 2017 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Mentor Fall 2017 Lunch and Learn The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Lunch will be provided as we share mentoring best practices to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. Join us to learn more about the UPIC program, your role as a UPIC mentor and tips and techniques to become an outstanding mentor. This event is for new Mentors or Continuing Mentors seeking a refresher. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Thu, Nov 9, 2017 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! It's All About The Internship It's All About The Internship Learn how to find internships and get the most out of the internship experience. Participants will learn about resources available to find internships, both in the US and abroad, and the basics of how an internship program works. Please RSVP by following the provided link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Leadership Brand Wed, Nov 15, 2017 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall Lunch and Learn November 15 The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Lunch will be provided as we share mentoring best practices to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. Join us to learn more about the UPIC program, your role as a UPIC mentor and tips and techniques to become an outstanding mentor. This event is for new Mentors or Continuing Mentors seeking a refresher. Space is limited. Please RSVP using the provided link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Tue, Jan 16, 2018 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring 2018 New Intern Orientation The Spring UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Spring UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link. McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Center Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Leadership Integrity and Ethics Tue, Feb 20, 2018 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! It's All About The Internship It's All About The Internship Learn how to find internships and get the most out of the internship experience. Participants will learn about resources available to find internships, both in the US and abroad, and the basics of how an internship program works. Please RSVP by following the provided link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Leadership Tue, Mar 13, 2018 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring Lunch and Learn March 13 Join us for the UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn. The workshop provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. We will have a student intern panel that will be sharing tips from their perspective. Also, we will be sharing upcoming changes to our program that will be effective beginning this summer. Join us to acquire new information, learn more about the UPIC program, your role as a UPIC mentor and tips and techniques to become an outstanding mentor. This lunch is for all UPIC mentors. Space is limited so please RSVP for this event. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Thu, Apr 26, 2018 8 to 9:30 AM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! Let's Do Breakfast! Faculty and Staff are invited to share best practices for field experience course facilitation with fellow experiential learning coordinators! Join us for breakfast in the David Peebles Room in the Hendrix Student Center at 8:00 for breakfast and fellowship with colleagues across disciplines. Please be sure to RSVP since breakfast will be provided. David Peebles Room (Hendrix Student Center) Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Collaboration Tue, May 15, 2018 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2018 New Intern May 15 Orientation The Summer UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Summer UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend one of the orientation dates at the provided RSVP link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Leadership Communication Collaboration Wed, May 16, 2018 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2018 New Intern May 16 Orientation The Summer UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Summer UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend one of the orientation dates at the provided RSVP link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Leadership Collaboration Tue, Aug 21, 2018 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall Aug 21 New Intern Orientation Come meet the UPIC Staff and other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! The Fall Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about the UPIC program and how to maximize the internship experience. This event is limited to new Fall UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please RSVP to attend at the provided link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Leadership Communication Self-Awareness Mon, Aug 27, 2018 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall Aug 27 New Intern Orientation Come meet UPIC staff and other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! The Fall Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about the UPIC program and how to maximize the internship experience. This event is limited to new Fall UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link. McKissick Theatre Audience: U Core Competencies: Leadership Communication Thu, Oct 11, 2018 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Mentor Fall 2018 Lunch and Learn The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Lunch will be provided as we share mentoring best practices to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. Join us to learn more about the UPIC program, your role as a UPIC mentor and tips and techniques to become an outstanding mentor. This event is for new Mentors or Continuing Mentors seeking a refresher. Please RSVP using the provided link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Tue, Oct 30, 2018 5:30 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. International Internships Information Session International Internship and Professional Development Program Information Session (INT 3010) Come and learn about the unique opportunity to spend summer 2019 earning 3-credit hours and gaining valuable work and cultural experience by interning abroad for 8-weeks. Students who attend this workshop will learn about living and interning abroad in a tailor-made placement in Australia, Chile, England, Ireland, or Spain that match their learning and career objectives. The international internship and professional development course is comprehensive and includes all of the key services and support to enhance your intern abroad experience. Sirrine 106 Audience: U G Core Competencies: Thu, Nov 1, 2018 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! It's All About The Internship It's All About The Internship Learn how to find internships and get the most out of the internship experience. Participants will learn about resources available to find internships, both in the US and abroad, and the basics of how an internship program works. This event is now FULL. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Leadership Communication Brand Wed, Nov 14, 2018 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall Lunch and Learn November 14 The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Lunch will be provided as we discuss the UPIC program and share mentoring best practices to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. Join us to learn more about the UPIC program, your role as a UPIC mentor and tips and techniques to become an outstanding mentor. This event is for new Mentors or Continuing Mentors seeking a refresher. Space is limited. Please RSVP using the provided link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Wed, Nov 14, 2018 5:30 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. International Internships Information Session International Internship and Professional Development Program Information Session (INT 3010) Come and learn about the unique opportunity to spend summer 2019 earning 3-credit hours and gaining valuable work and cultural experience by interning abroad for 8-weeks. Students who attend this workshop will learn about living and interning abroad in a tailor-made placement in Australia, Chile, England, Ireland, or Spain that match their learning and career objectives. The international internship and professional development course is comprehensive and includes all of the key services and support to enhance your intern abroad experience. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U G Core Competencies: Tue, Nov 27, 2018 5:30 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. International Internships Information Session International Internship and Professional Development Program Information Session (INT 3010) Come and learn about the unique opportunity to spend summer 2019 earning 3-credit hours and gaining valuable work and cultural experience by interning abroad for 8-weeks. Students who attend this workshop will learn about living and interning abroad in a tailor-made placement in Australia, Chile, England, Ireland, or Spain that match their learning and career objectives. The international internship and professional development course is comprehensive and includes all of the key services and support to enhance your intern abroad experience. Sirrine 106 Audience: U G Core Competencies: Thu, Dec 6, 2018 8 to 9:30 AM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! Let's Do Breakfast! Faculty and Staff are invited to learn about liability and legal issues surrounding internships with fellow experiential learning coordinators! Join us for breakfast in the David Peebles Room in the Hendrix Student Center at 8:00 for breakfast and fellowship with colleagues across disciplines. Please be sure to RSVP since breakfast will be provided. David Peebles Room (Hendrix Student Center) Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Integrity and Ethics Wed, Jan 9, 2019 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring 2019 New Intern Orientation Jan. 9 The Spring UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Spring UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=553 McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Center Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Leadership Collaboration Tue, Jan 15, 2019 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring 2019 New Intern Orientation Jan. 15 The Spring UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Spring UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=554 McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Center Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Tue, Feb 19, 2019 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! It's All About The Internship It's All About The Internship Learn how to find internships and get the most out of the internship experience. Participants will learn about resources available to find internships, both in the US and abroad, and the basics of how an internship program works. This workshop is offered be offered again in the fall. Space is limited. Please RSVP by following the provided link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Wed, Mar 6, 2019 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring Lunch and Learn March 6 UPIC Lunch and Learn The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Lunch will be provided as we discuss the UPIC program and share mentoring best practices to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. Join us to learn more about the UPIC program, your role as a UPIC mentor and tips and techniques to become an outstanding mentor. This event is for new Mentors or Continuing Mentors seeking a refresher. Space is limited. Please RSVP using the provided link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Thu, Apr 4, 2019 8 to 9:30 AM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! Let's Do Breakfast! Faculty and Staff are invited to continue the conversation about liability and legal issues surrounding internships from the student perspective with fellow experiential learning coordinators! Join us for breakfast in the David Peebles Room in the Hendrix Student Center at 8:00 for breakfast and fellowship with colleagues across disciplines. Please be sure to RSVP since breakfast will be provided. David Peebles Room (Hendrix Student Center) Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Collaboration Integrity and Ethics Brand Tue, May 14, 2019 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2019 New Intern Orientation May 14 The Summer UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Summer 2019 UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=589 McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Center Audience: U Core Competencies: Leadership Communication Collaboration Wed, May 15, 2019 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2019 New Intern Orientation May 15 The Summer UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Summer 2019 UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=590 McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Center Audience: U Core Competencies: Leadership Communication Collaboration Wed, Aug 21, 2019 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall 2019 New Intern Orientation Aug 21 The Fall 2019 UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Fall 2019 UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=617 Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Self-Awareness Tue, Aug 27, 2019 4:30 to 6 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall 2019 New Intern Orientation Aug 27 The Fall 2019 UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Fall 2019 UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=624 McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Self-Awareness Wed, Oct 9, 2019 8 to 9:30 AM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! Let's Do Breakfast! Join us for the Center or Career and Professional Development's annual Let's Do Breakfast! Topic: The Division of Undergraduate Studies has acquired and analyzed data on student engagement to help the institution better know what populations of students are not engaging or having the opportunities to do so. The data and its implications for continuous improvement will be shared with the campus at Let's Do Breakfast. David Peebles Room (Hendrix Student Center) Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Collaboration Anaytical skills Thu, Oct 17, 2019 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall Lunch and Learn October 17 UPIC Lunch and Learn for New Mentors This session is for brand new UPIC mentors or mentors with 1 to 2 years of UPIC experience who want a refresher. The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides key information about the UPIC program to assist new mentors and provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Lunch will be provided as we discuss the UPIC program and share mentoring best practices to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. Join us to learn more about the UPIC program, your role as a UPIC mentor and tips and techniques to become an outstanding mentor. This event is for new Mentors or Continuing Mentors (1-2 years of experience) seeking a refresher. Space is limited. Please RSVP using the provided link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Tue, Oct 22, 2019 5 to 8 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Night at the Career Closet The Clemson Career Clothes Closet allows Clemson students to obtain two business casual and business professional items from a wide selection of clothing. Come and enjoy light refreshments, win a door prize, and prep your closet with professional attire. Edgar Brown Student Union Room 166 Audience: U Core Competencies: Brand Wed, Oct 23, 2019 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! It's All About The Internship It's All About The Internship Learn how to find internships and get the most out of the internship experience. Participants will learn about resources available to find internships, both in the US and abroad, and the basics of how an internship program works. This workshop will be offered again in the spring. Space is limited. Please RSVP by following the provided link. http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=918 Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Leadership Brand Thu, Nov 7, 2019 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall Lunch and Learn November 7 UPIC Lunch and Learn The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Lunch will be provided as we discuss the UPIC program and share mentoring best practices to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. Topics will include methods for managing multiple interns; utilizing the professional competencies; addressing workplace or professionalism issues; and creating a productive work environment. This event is for Continuing Mentors or Mentors with 2 or more semesters of UPIC mentoring experience. Space is limited. Please RSVP using the provided link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Tue, Jan 7, 2020 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring 2020 New Intern Orientation Jan. 7 The Spring UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Spring UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=1170 McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Center Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Leadership Collaboration Tue, Jan 14, 2020 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring 2020 New Intern Orientation Jan. 14 The Spring UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Spring UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=1177 McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Center Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Wed, Feb 19, 2020 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! It's All About The Internship Learn how to find internships and get the most out of the internship experience. Participants will learn about resources available to find internships, both in the US and abroad, and the basics of how an internship program works. This workshop will be offered again in the fall. Space is limited. Please register to attend by following this RSVP link. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Thu, Mar 12, 2020 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring Lunch and Learn March 12 UPIC Lunch and Learn The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Lunch will be provided as we discuss the UPIC program and share mentoring best practices to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. Topics will include methods for managing multiple interns; utilizing the professional competencies; addressing workplace or professionalism issues; and creating a productive work environment. This event is for New and Continuing Mentors. Space is limited. Please click here to RSVP. Center for Career and Professional Development, 316 Hendrix Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Thu, Apr 2, 2020 - Mon, Mar 16, 2020 8 to 9:30 AM Add to your Google Calendar. CANCELLED Let's Do Breakfast! CANCELLED due to closure. Join us for the Center or Career and Professional Development's annual Let's Do Breakfast! Topic: “Let’s Do Breakfast” will look at experiential education through a different lens this semester. A panel of current and past interns, co-ops, and practicum students will be invited to speak about their experience in the field. These students will be asked questions about their anticipated and actual learning outcomes, support from the institution, relationship with mentors, and thoughts on improving High Impact Practice experiences at Clemson. David Peebles Room (Hendrix Student Center) Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Tue, May 12, 2020 4 to 5:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2020 New Intern Orientation May 12 The Summer UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Join with other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Summer UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=1751 The zoom meeting link will be sent to your email prior to the event. Virtual via zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Collaboration Leadership Adaptability Wed, May 13, 2020 4 to 5:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2020 New Intern Orientation May 13 The Summer UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Join with other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Summer UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=1758 The zoom meeting link will be sent to your email prior to the event. Virtual via zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Collaboration Leadership Adaptability Wed, Aug 19, 2020 4 to 5:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall 2020 New Intern Orientation August 19 The Fall UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Join with other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Fall 2020 UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: The zoom meeting link will be sent to your email prior to the event. Virtual via zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Tue, Aug 25, 2020 4 to 5:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall 2020 New Intern Orientation August 25 The Fall UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Join with other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Fall UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link: http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=2157 The zoom meeting link will be sent to your email prior to the event. Virtual via zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Wed, Oct 21, 2020 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall Zoom Lunch and Learn October 21 UPIC Zoom Lunch and Learn This session is for brand new UPIC mentors or mentors with a few years of UPIC experience who want a refresher. Join us and enjoy your lunch while we Zoom and discuss the UPIC program, new protocols for this semester, and best practices from our recent remote internships survey to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides key information about the UPIC program to assist new mentors and provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Please RSVP to register using the provided link. The zoom connection information will be emailed to registrants. Zoom link will be emailed to registrants Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Wed, Oct 21, 2020 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! Fall 2020 It's All About The Internship Learn how to find internships and get the most out of the internship experience. Participants will learn about resources available to find internships, and the basics of how an internship program works. This workshop will be offered again in the Spring. Please register to attend using the RSVP link. The zoom connection link will be emailed to registrants. Via Zoom, link will be emailed to registrants Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Brand Fri, Oct 23, 2020 12 to 2 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Alumni Panel Join us for a virtual interactive panel featuring UPIC alumni as they discuss their experiences and offer professional advice on topics including: Getting the most out of your internship Tips for navigating the job search Thriving in a virtual and post-COVID workplace The link for the workshop will be sent to you after you RSVP. Virtual Online Audience: U F/S Core Competencies: Communication Self-Awareness Adaptability Thu, Nov 12, 2020 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall Zoom Lunch and Learn November 12 Enjoy your lunch while we zoom and discuss the UPIC program, hear from current UPIC interns in our Intern Panel, and discuss best practices from our recent remote internships survey to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides key information about the UPIC program to assist new mentors and provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Please RSVP to register using the provided link. The zoom connection information will be emailed to registrants. Zoom link will be emailed to registrants Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Tue, Jan 5, 2021 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring 2021 New Intern Orientation January 5 The Spring UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Join with other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Spring 2021 UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link. The zoom meeting link will be sent to your email prior to the event. Virtual via zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Integrity and Ethics Collaboration Mon, Jan 11, 2021 4 to 5:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring 2021 New Intern Orientation January 11 The Spring UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Join with other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Spring UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP link. The zoom meeting link will be sent to your email prior to the event. Virtual via zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Integrity and Ethics Collaboration Thu, Feb 18, 2021 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! It's All About The Internship Learn how to find internships and get the most out of the internship experience. Participants will learn about resources available to find internships, and the basics of how an internship program works. This workshop will be offered again in the Fall. Please register to attend using the RSVP link. The zoom connection link will be emailed to registrants. Via Zoom, link will be emailed to registrants Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Adaptability Leadership Thu, Mar 4, 2021 12 to 2 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Alumni Panel Join us for a virtual interactive panel featuring UPIC alumni as they discuss their experiences and offer professional advice on topics including: Getting the most out of your internship Tips for navigating the job search Thriving in a virtual and post-COVID workplace The link for the workshop will be sent to you after you RSVP. The UPIC Alumni Panel has unfortunately had to be cancelled. Virtual Online Audience: U F/S Core Competencies: Collaboration Communication Tue, Mar 9, 2021 12 to 4 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Drop-In Informational Come Drop-In and ask questions and get information on upcoming UPIC Internships. Discuss opportunities and engage with our UPIC staff prior to Summer and Fall positions becoming available in mid-March. RSVP to receive the link to the Zoom room and come and go at your pleasure. Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Brand Thu, Mar 11, 2021 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring Zoom Lunch and Learn March 11 Enjoy your lunch while we zoom and discuss the UPIC program and best practices and hear from panelists on hurdles and lessons learned from remote mentoring and planning as we move forward. The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides key information about the UPIC program to assist new mentors and provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Please RSVP to register using the provided link. The zoom connection information will be emailed to registrants. Zoom link will be emailed to registrants Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Communication Communication Adaptability Tue, May 11, 2021 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2021 New Intern Orientation May 11 The Summer UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Join with other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Summer 2021 UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided link http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=3291 The zoom meeting link will be sent to your clemson email prior to the event. Virtual via zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Wed, May 12, 2021 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2021 New Intern Orientation May 12 The Summer UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Join with other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Summer 2021 UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided link http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=3298 The zoom meeting link will be sent to your clemson email prior to the event. Virtual via zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Wed, Aug 18, 2021 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall 2021 New Intern Orientation August 18 The Fall UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Join with other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Fall 2021 UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided link http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=3529 The zoom meeting link will be sent to your clemson email prior to the event. Virtual via zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Collaboration Communication Leadership Mon, Aug 23, 2021 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall 2021 New Intern Orientation August 23 The Fall UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Join with other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Fall 2021 UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided link The zoom meeting link will be sent to your clemson email prior to the event. Virtual via zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Fri, Oct 15, 2021 12 to 1 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Alumni Panel This panel will feature UPIC Alumni working in various fields and in Graduate School. The purpose is to offer current UPIC students, and prospective UPIC students, the opportunity to network, ask questions, and learn more about how a UPIC internship can impact them personally and professionally. Zoom link will be sent a few days prior to the event. Zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Collaboration Leadership Brand Tue, Oct 19, 2021 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! It's All About The Internship Workshop Learn how to find internships and get the most out of the internship experience. Participants will learn about resources available to find internships, and the basics of how an internship program works. This workshop is also offered again in the Spring. Please register to attend using the RSVP link. The zoom connection link will be emailed to registrants. Via Zoom, link will be emailed to registrants Audience: U Core Competencies: Leadership Self-Awareness Adaptability Wed, Oct 20, 2021 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Fall Zoom Lunch and Learn October 20 UPIC Zoom Lunch and Learn This session is for brand new UPIC mentors or mentors with a few years of UPIC experience who want a refresher. Join us and enjoy your lunch while we Zoom and hear from a panel of current interns, and discuss the UPIC program, protocols for this semester, and best practices to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides key information about the UPIC program to assist new mentors and provides mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Please RSVP to register using the provided link. The zoom connection information will be emailed to registrants. Zoom link will be emailed to registrants Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Tue, Jan 11, 2022 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring 2022 New Intern Orientation Jan. 11 The Spring 2022 UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Come meet other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Spring UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided registration RSVP link. The zoom meeting link will be sent to your email prior to the event. Via Zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Wed, Jan 19, 2022 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring 2022 New Intern Orientation January 19 The Spring UPIC 2022 Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements and how to maximize the internship experience. Join with other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Spring UPIC interns in their first semester with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided registration RSVP link. The zoom meeting link will be sent to your email prior to the event. Virtual via zoom Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Wed, Feb 9, 2022 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! It's All About The Internship Learn how to find internships and get the most out of the internship experience. Participants will learn about resources available to find internships and the basics of how an internship program works. Please register to attend using the RSVP link. Registration closes at 3pm on February 9th. The zoom connection link will be emailed to registrants the day before and the day of the event. Via Zoom, link will be emailed to registrants Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Leadership Technology Tue, Mar 15, 2022 12 to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Spring Zoom Lunch and Learn March 15 UPIC Zoom Mentor Lunch and Learn This session is for brand new UPIC mentors or any UPIC mentor who wants a refresher. Join us and enjoy your lunch while we Zoom and discuss UPIC program components and requirements, selecting and hiring interns, and best practices to utilize when advising and supervising your interns. The UPIC Mentor Lunch & Learn workshop provides key information about the UPIC program to assist new mentors and, provides all mentors with the opportunity to share tips, techniques, and best practices for managing and mentoring their UPIC student intern/s. Please RSVP to register using the provided link. Registration will end and the zoom connection information will be emailed to registrants at 11 am, the day of the event. Zoom link will be emailed to registrants Audience: F/S Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Tue, Apr 5, 2022 11:30 AM to 1:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! Professional Headshots for UPIC Interns and Mentors UPIC interns and mentors! Need a professional headshot taken for LinkedIn or Social Media? Stop by the front Sikes Hall for a picture on the steps or in front of the columns. Please register as we will send an email out to everyone that RSVPs if we need to reschedule due to any weather concerns. Sikes Hall Audience: U G F/S Core Competencies: Brand Tue, May 17, 2022 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2022 New Intern Orientation May 17 The Summer UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements, including the INT course, timesheet information, and how to maximize the internship experience. Join other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Summer 2022 UPIC interns in their first experience with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP registration link http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=4334 McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Wed, May 18, 2022 5 to 6:30 PM Add to your Google Calendar. RSVP Today! UPIC Summer 2022 New Intern Orientation May 18 The Summer UPIC Orientation welcomes New UPIC Interns to their internship experience and provides key information about UPIC requirements, including the INT course, timesheet information, and how to maximize the internship experience. Join other UPIC interns and learn more about the program! This event is limited to new Summer 2022 UPIC interns in their first experience with the UPIC program. Please register to attend at the provided RSVP registration link http://career.sites.clemson.edu/calendar/event_rsvp.php?id=4327 McKissick Theatre, Hendrix Audience: U Core Competencies: Communication Collaboration Leadership Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift