Our in-person hours are 9:00-5:00 and drop-ins are available 11:30-1:30. Please note that we will be closed for a staff retreat from 10:00-3:00 on Monday June 6th. Skip to content Skip to main nav University of Washington Career & Internship Center | University of Washington Search Keywords Elevating Career Guests Log in Sign up People We Serve Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Recent Graduates & Alumni Advisers & Faculty Managers of On-Campus Student Employees Employers Our Services Career Fairs Online Resume Review Drop In Coaching Career Coaching Appointments Workshops and Events Career Courses Connect with Employers Premium Subscriptions Private Space for Virtual Interviews Husky Career Closet DIY Resources Find Purpose Build Skills Get Experience (internships) Build Relationships (networking) Tell Your Story (LinkedIn, resumes, cover letters, interviews) Find Success (jobs, service programs, grad school) Interest & Identity Resources Interest Arts / Media / Marketing Consulting / Business Health Non-profit / Social Justice / Education Law / Government / Policy Physical & Life Sciences Sustainability / Conservation / Energy Tech / Data / Gaming Identity First Generation Students International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Transfer Students Undocumented/DACA Students Student Veterans Students with Disabilities Jobs/Internships Featured Jobs & Internships Handshake Access Details Internship Advice On-Campus Employment Job Search Tips For Employers About About Us Staff Contact Get Involved Baldasty Internship Project Peace Corps Jobs Below is a rotating selection of featured positions from UW’s job and internship board, Handshake. Please note that you will be redirected to Handshake for the application process. Visit Handshake to view thousands of additional opportunities! Visit our other pages for other resources: * Handshake Access Details * Internship Advice * On-Campus Student Employment * Job Search Tips Featured Jobs and Internships 1080 Handshake: View all Jobs and Internships Skip filter options to posts All Jobs Filter Clear Filter: See More Filters Filter Controls Job Categories:WA Jobs Remote Jobs Internships Full-Time Jobs Campus Jobs Close Creative Art Director Post-Grad Intern Golin Share This: Share Creative Art Director Post-Grad Intern on TwitterShare Creative Art Director Post-Grad Intern on LinkedinShare Creative Art Director Post-Grad Intern on Facebook Copy Link Posted on: May 27, 2022 Internships Expires June 10, 2022 About Golin We are a global public relations agency with one mission: to make the best work of our lives and to create change that matters. We have redefined the role of public relations with a focus on earning attention for some of the world’s most iconic and beloved brands through brave ideas, bold insights and maximum impact for the profoundly diverse marketplace. To learn more about Golin visit: golin.com. Why Work for Us? We are 1,600 bright and eager … Click to see more and apply Undergraduate Laboratory Assistant/Technician University of Washington - Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Share This: Share Undergraduate Laboratory Assistant/Technician on TwitterShare Undergraduate Laboratory Assistant/Technician on LinkedinShare Undergraduate Laboratory Assistant/Technician on Facebook Copy Link Posted on: May 27, 2022 Campus Jobs Expires June 11, 2022 Position: Undergraduate Laboratory Assistant/Technician Start: Summer 2022 Hours: 10-19 hours/week during the quarter. Salary: $17.27 per hour Deadline: June 10, 2022 Description: The UW BIOFAB is hiring a paid undergraduate laboratory technician to support research activities in molecular and synthetic biology. Duties include: Cleaning and sterilizing supplies, general laboratory maintenance, preparing media and reagents, performing molecular cloning protocols, collecting data, and monitoring experiments. Experimental protocols include PCRs, gel electrophoresis, DNA purification, plasmid assembly, E. coli transformations, yeast transformations, NGS prep, … Click to see more and apply Anchor / Producer KOBI-TV NBC5 Share This: Share Anchor / Producer on TwitterShare Anchor / Producer on LinkedinShare Anchor / Producer on Facebook Copy Link Posted on: May 26, 2022 Full-Time Jobs Expires July 31, 2022 Locally owned KOBI-TV NBC5 in Medford, OR is looking for an experienced Anchor/Producer to join our NBC5 News team. If you have a strong background in anchoring, producing, reporting, editing, and are proficient with newsroom computer systems and have knowledge of social media platforms, this may be the right job for you! Job duties for this position include: Anchoring newscast(s); Determines the order and the time given for stories to be presented on the news; Selects stories to air during … Click to see more and apply Multimedia Journalist/Weekend Weather Forecaster KOBI-TV NBC5 Share This: Share Multimedia Journalist/Weekend Weather Forecaster on TwitterShare Multimedia Journalist/Weekend Weather Forecaster on LinkedinShare Multimedia Journalist/Weekend Weather Forecaster on Facebook Copy Link Posted on: May 26, 2022 Full-Time Jobs Expires July 31, 2022 KOBI-TV NBC5 in the beautiful Rogue Valley is looking for a Multimedia Journalist/Weekend Weather Forecaster to join our NBC5 News at Sunrise Team. The ideal candidate loves breaking news and weather, constantly improves newscasts and is flexible right up to and through the newscast. Writing and storytelling must be a passion, as well as creating an artful newscast with high pace and volume. Proficiency with a newsroom computer system and knowledge of social media platforms, such as Facebook and Twitter, … Click to see more and apply PPQ Aid, PPQ Tech, and other seasonal jobs (multiple locations) U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) Share This: Share PPQ Aid, PPQ Tech, and other seasonal jobs (multiple locations) on TwitterShare PPQ Aid, PPQ Tech, and other seasonal jobs (multiple locations) on LinkedinShare PPQ Aid, PPQ Tech, and other seasonal jobs (multiple locations) on Facebook Copy Link Posted on: May 25, 2022 Full-Time Jobs Expires June 11, 2022 Hello and thanks for your interest in a temporary job with USDA APHIS PPQ! Please note this is an Outreach Notice to make you aware of our brand new temporary jobs page which has multiple positions across the country. Locations in NY, SC, ID, PR, AZ I wish you the best in all your career pursuits! Please reach out to me with any recruiting questions. Best, Tom Colarusso Thomas.W.Colarusso@usda.gov USDA APHIS PPQ Outreach and Recruitment Call/ Text: 518-420-9779 APHIS Career … Click to see more and apply Marketing Coordinator GenCap Construction Corp Share This: Share Marketing Coordinator on TwitterShare Marketing Coordinator on LinkedinShare Marketing Coordinator on Facebook Copy Link Posted on: May 25, 2022 Full-Time Jobs Expires July 22, 2022 Job Title: Marketing Coordinator Primary Responsibilities: We are looking for an experienced person to join our marketing team based in Kirkland. The marketing focus will be supporting the marketing department’s initiatives with planning, executing, and tracking marketing programs such as email, event, social media, content marketing, collateral, etc., helping to transform GenCap’s qualifications and experience into a compelling visual story. Serving as the Brand and Marketing Manager’s right-hand person, the Marketing Coordinator stays informed about marketing initiatives, branding, and event … Click to see more and apply Analyst, Enablement Annalect (a division of Omnicom) Share This: Share Analyst, Enablement on TwitterShare Analyst, Enablement on LinkedinShare Analyst, Enablement on Facebook Copy Link Posted on: May 25, 2022 Remote Jobs Expires May 30, 2022 Job Description: As every CMO knows, employing technology, data and analytics to business challenges is the cost of entry, not a nice to have. Unlocking the value of consumer data can deliver growth, revenue and ROI, and create differentiation to stay on top. Real-time action is instrumental in driving results within a highly fragmented marketplace. Annalect is the data and analytics division of Omnicom that provides a variety of services to our clients and media agency partners. As a company, … Click to see more and apply APD Adult Foster Home Policy Analyst Oregon Department of Human Services Share This: Share APD Adult Foster Home Policy Analyst on TwitterShare APD Adult Foster Home Policy Analyst on LinkedinShare APD Adult Foster Home Policy Analyst on Facebook Copy Link Posted on: May 25, 2022 Remote Jobs Expires May 30, 2022 Do you enjoy digging into data and analyzing rules, regulations, systems, and processes to determine the best approach to resolve a problem? Do you find it rewarding to share your knowledge with others by adapting your style to fit their needs? Do you have the ability to incorporate feedback from colleagues with diverse backgrounds, expertise, and experience when evaluating issues and developing recommendations? Would you like to work from the comfort of your home and not be limited for career … Click to see more and apply Housing Navigator at Day Social Services Compass Housing Alliance Share This: Share Housing Navigator at Day Social Services on TwitterShare Housing Navigator at Day Social Services on LinkedinShare Housing Navigator at Day Social Services on Facebook Copy Link Posted on: May 24, 2022 Full-Time Jobs Expires July 23, 2022 ABOUT THE POSITION: The Housing Navigator is a type of Case Manager who maintains a caseload of individual program participants experiencing homelessness, many of whom have multiple barriers (i.e. serious mental illness, substance use disorders, chronic health conditions, frequent contact with law enforcement, etc.). The Housing Navigator engages and develops relationships with participants and provides trauma-informed support services so that secure, stable, and permanent housing may be achieved. This is a unionized position, represented by Local 8 of the Office … Click to see more and apply Pages: 1 2 3 … 120 Career & Internship Center | University of Washington Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYouTube Contact us: 9a-5p, M-F | 134 Mary Gates Hall | Seattle, WA 98195 (206) 543-0535 tel The Division of Student Life acknowledges the Coast Salish people of this land, the land which touches the shared waters of all tribes and bands within the Suquamish, Tulalip, and Muckleshoot Nations. Student Life is committed to developing and maintaining an inclusive climate that honors the diverse array of students, faculty, and staff. We strive to provide pathways for success and to purposefully confront and dismantle existing physical, social, and psychological barriers for minoritized students and communities. We engage in this work while learning and demonstrating cultural humility. Funded by the Student Technology Fee Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Copyright © 2022 University of Washington Powered by uConnect Posting....