Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries cooperative education co-op ambassadors the co-op concept the co-op rotation Co-op Program Stats students getting started Rotation Instructions Assignments Reports Instructions co-op and financial aid co-op FAQs Employers Interview Days Employer FAQs Academic Terms Co-op Salary Survey COVID-19 Virtual Services Students Benefit from the Co-op Program The Two Main Reasons Why Students Participate: It’s a great way to learn! It’s a great way to graduate from Clemson with significant full-time experience in your field of study! Tell me and I forget; Show me and I remember Involve me and I understand." The ancient words of this proverb express so well what the Cooperative Education Program is about. When given the chance to apply theory that is learned in class, students gain a greater understanding of the material from a different perspective. Students report that when they are on a co-op rotation, they learn new concepts in their field as well as material not yet covered in their classes. Beyond the educational benefits of the program, students also agree that the significant full-time experience the program offers gives them a competitive edge when seeking employment upon graduation. Co-op experience is important to students in many ways. The classroom provides engineering students with the foundation, but it is the workplace that allows students to create and innovate in the real world. I know this first hand from my days as a Clemson Engineering Co-op years ago! At Bosch specifically, we assign each co-op a mentor. Often these relationships continue as the individual transitions from student to professional. Engineering is a challenging career, but the opportunities are tremendous. Clemson knows this and does a great job linking industry and education, while preparing students for these rewarding careers.” - Mike Mansuetti, President of Robert Bosch LLC, Clemson alumnus and former Clemson Engineering Co-op Student. Co-op Student Henry Burth at NASA’s Wallops Flight Facility. He is assigned to T&E (Testing and Environmental Simulation). "I am getting exposure to some very cool hardware. I also get to work alongside physicists and researchers who are the principle in their field – brilliant people. I am loving the area, the people, and the experience. From day one I have felt as a member of the team and I am having a great time." Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift