Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Career Coaching Appointments Career Coaches Help You… Discover interests Develop skills Find experiences Establish connections Appointment Types Getting Started Click to expand Get assistance completing your HireJayhawks profile Discuss ways to use UCC resources Initial major/career exploration Join a career community Career Planning Click to expand Determine how your interests and skills relate to careers Learn what job opportunities exist based on majors, interests, or industries Review career assessment results Resume/CV Review Click to expand Start a resume/curriculum vita Revise an existing resume/CV Target your resume/CV to a specific job/internship/etc. Cover Letter/Other Correspondence Click to expand Get an overview of the purpose of cover letters Start or revise a cover letter Target your cover letter to a specific job/internship/etc. Receive feedback on your cover letter format and content Networking Click to expand Identify professionals working in careers you want to explore Learn resources (e.g., KU Mentoring+, LinkedIn, career fairs) to connect with professionals Draft messaging for contacting faculty, staff, employers, and more for career-related needs Discover what informational interviews are and how they can help you Internship Information Click to expand Discuss internship types and components of a strong internship Review resources to help with internship searches Begin the search process with guidance from a career coach Interview Preparation (non-mock interview) Click to expand Discuss what happens during the typical interview process Find out common tips and techniques for interviewing Understand how to research organizations Mock Interview Click to expand Practice answering and asking interview questions Receive real-time feedback Develop strategies for answering difficult questions Gain confidence in interviewing skills Job Search Information Click to expand Determine a “job target” to help with your search Learn about tools & resources to conduct a job search Discuss common job search barriers & solutions Begin/continue your job search with a career coach Medical School Application Click to expand Get answers to questions about the application process Find opportunities for healthcare experience within Lawrence & surrounding areas Review content for your personal statement Practice a simulated interview with targeted questions for med school Graduate School Information Click to expand Explore graduate school application process & timeline Receive help determining whether to go to grad school Get feedback on admission essay/personal statement content Use online resources to research graduate schools & programs Offer/Salary Negotiation Questions Click to expand Recognize your role in the job acceptance conversation Practice how to navigate salary conversations Find credible salary information to use when negotiating Featured Resources UCC LinkedIn Group Careers, Interests, and Majors Services for Alumni Career Assessments Appointments We'd love to assist you with your career planning process! The University Career Center is open Monday-Friday, 8am-5pm for both virtual and in-person appointments and virtual appointments Monday - Wednesday, 5-7pm. We have 30-60 minutes appointments available for each appointment type. Appointments can be made through our online scheduling system on HireJayhawks.com or by contacting us at 785-864-3624. Leave a message if you don't reach us. We will call you back ASAP. Frequently Asked Questions What do career coaches do? Click to expand Career Exploration & Engagement: Whether you know what job you want after graduation or you don’t know what options exist, career coaches guide you through conversations to explore your interests. You can learn about career assessments, volunteer/shadowing opportunities, internship search resources, and more. Graduate School Exploration & Preparation: Do you have an interest in continuing your education or have you found out your career requires a graduate degree? Career coaches meet with students to help you learn what steps are needed to apply to graduate school and receive help with the application process, such as identifying colleges offering your desired graduate program, learning about experiential components of admission requirements (e.g., shadowing hours), practicing admission interviews, and drafting a personal statement. Job & Internship Preparation: Are you looking for a part-time job while you’re in school or searching for a full-time position after graduation? Meet with a career coach to get help preparing your job-search tools (e.g., resume and cover letter), tips for job searching, practice mock interviews, ways to build connections in your field through networking, and salary negotiation resources. Note: If you need assistance declaring a major or choosing classes, schedule an appointment with your academic advisor. How do I schedule an appointment? Click to expand Career coaches are available to meet with you virtually (Zoom or Phone) or In-Person. Head to HireJayhawks to schedule an appointment now. See below for detailed instructions. Log into HireJayhawks. Note: If this is your first time logging in, you will be prompted to create your profile. Click “Schedule an Appointment/Drop-in” on the left-side menu. Select “Request New Appointment.” Complete the requested information starting with the appointment “Type” and ending with your preferred “Days of the Week,” then click “Check Availability.” Note: Choose the “Career Services Office” that matches your major interest. Business major? – select “Business Career Services” Engineering major? – select “Engineering Career Center” All others – select “University Career Center” Choose the best day and time for you from the list of available options. Note: More appointment times may be available than are represented online. If you don't see a time online that will work for you, please call 785-864-3624! Fill in the requested information, including your “Appointment Expectations,” then click “Submit Request.” Note: Once you make an appointment, you will receive an email confirmation and another email that provides you with instructions for connecting with your career coach. Appointments can be cancelled or rescheduled through HireJayhawks. Login to HireJayhawks and select “Schedule an Appointment” in the left menu to view and modify your counseling appointments. Who do career coaches meet with? Click to expand All undergraduate students, graduate students, and alumni! Whether you know your major or are still deciding, you can use the University Career Center’s services. Note: If you are majoring in Journalism, Business, or Engineering, your professional school also has a career center. Which career coach should I meet with? Click to expand Any of them. All career coaches are cross trained, meaning they are knowledgeable about each appointment type and can assist any KU student. When should I meet with a career coach? Click to expand You should meet with a career coach as early as your first semester freshman year to start your career exploration. Then, at least once an academic year. How do I use the Professional House of Garments (PHOG)? Click to expand Check in at Room 206 Summerfield Hall and let the person at the front desk know that you want to go in the PHOG. They’ll give you brief directions from there. Meet Our Career Coaches Kim Beeler Assistant Director optimist. energizer. helper. View full profile Symantha Dawson Assistant and Health Professions Career Coach traveler. writer. puzzler. View full profile Michael Diana Career Coach Optimist. Social Butterfly. Jolly Rancher Enthusiast. View full profile Matthew Guiliano Career Coach learner. helper. reader. optimist. View full profile Ellen Lind Career Coach musician. entrepreneur. coffee lover. View full profile Annie Patterson Assistant Director questioner. educator. music enthusiast. View full profile Natalia Plotnikov Assistant Director educator. learner. traveler. View full profile Wendy Shoemaker Senior Associate Director explorer. catalyst. wide-eyed optimist. View full profile Candice Townsend Graduate Assistant – Diverse Student Populations Intellect. Creative. Eclectic. View full profile Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.