Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries About Us Ask us a Question Contact Us Staff Directory Org Chart Corporate Partners Data and Analytics Directions to the CCPD Our Career Ambassadors Our Co-op Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Privacy Policy COVID-19 Virtual Services cooperative education internship programs Michelin Career Center Career Development and Job Search Parent and Family Resources Employer Services Fluor Fluor Corporation is one of the world's largest, publicly owned engineering, procurement, construction, and maintenance services organizations. Over the past century, Fluor, through its operating subsidiaries, has become a trusted global business leader by providing exceptional expertise and technical knowledge across every phase of a project. Customers rely on Fluor to deliver world-class solutions that optimize customers assets, improve their competitive position, and increase their long-term business success. Consistently rated as one of the world's safest contractors, Fluor's primary objective is to develop, execute, and maintain capital projects on schedule, within budget, and with operational excellence. The individual and collective expertise of our international work force of more than 50,000 employees provides cost-effective, intelligent solutions in a timely manner. In addition to project offices, Fluor maintains a network of offices in more than 25 countries across 6 continents. Our outstanding dependability, expertise, and safety distinguish Fluor as the preeminent leader in the global building services marketplace. Engineering News-Record (ENR) magazine consistently ranks Fluor Corporation among the top three on The Top Design-Build Firms list and The Top 400 Contractors list. Fluor serves customers in a wide variety of traditional and evolving industries worldwide, including chemicals and petrochemicals; commercial and institutional; government projects; life sciences; manufacturing; microelectronics; mining; oil and gas; power; telecommunications; and transportation infrastructure. For detailed information, visit Fluor's Web site at www.fluor.com. Visit Fluor's website at http://www.fluor.com. We appreciate our corporate partners. Learn more about the Corporate Partner Program. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift