Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries michelin career center Ask us a Question career development CU 1200 Class career counseling services majors and careers is graduate school for you Newly Accepted Students online workshops our handouts job search career fairs ClemsonJobLink diversity resources find a job job search tools and links interview resources resumes and cover Letters salary & job offer resources safeguard your job search job search scams our handouts career closet graduate student resources employer services corporate partner program recruiting information Company Connections Career Fairs and Events resources directions contact our team parent and family resources Our Career Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Core Competencies COVID-19 Virtual Services Clemson Career Closet - Now Open! What is the Career Closet? The Career Closet program was developed to provide a way for Clemson students to obtain clothing for job hunting. The clothing provided ranges from business casual to business professional attire. All of our clothing comes from donations given by members of the Clemson community. In addition to providing clothing, we also offer tips and interviewing advice at the Michelin Career Center to help build your professional brand. Previous Next Where is it? Clemson's Career Closet is located in room 166 of the Undergraduate Student Government Office. The Student Government Office is located in the Edgar Brown Student Union. Who is it for? Any Undergraduate or Graduate students may use the Career Closet. Students will be allowed to choose up to two items per semester, free of charge. Depending on inventory these numbers may change to accommodate for a higher demand. How does it work? Currently enrolled Undergraduate and Graduate students can come by during these times with an official Clemson University Student ID to complete the check-out process. The Career Closet is drop-in style meaning no appointment is needed, and students will be served on a first come first serve basis. Please note that there could be a 20-30 minute wait. Hours Due to COVID-19 we ask you to please wear a mask and practice social distancing while in the closet. Monday: 10:00 am to 1:00 pm Tuesday: 9:00 am to 11:00 am and 4:00 pm to 7:00 pm Wednesday: 10:00 am to 1:00 pm Thursday: 9:00 am to 11:00 am and 4:00 pm to 7:00 pm Friday: 1:00 pm to 5:00 pm To schedule an appointment, please email us at careercloset@clemson.edu. Donations Clemson University's Center for Career and Professional Development as well as the Undergraduate Student Government are accepting donations for all gently used business casual and business professional clothing. The locations of the drop-off centers are as follows: Clemson's Center for Career and Professional Development Located on the 3rd Floor of the Hendrix Student Center 720 McMillan Rd, Clemson, SC 29631 Clemson University's Alumni Center Drop-Box Located at 109 Daniel Dr, Clemson, SC 29631 Follow us on Instagram for clothing tips and the latest news @cucareercloset Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift