Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries internship programs UPIC On-Campus Internships departments / mentors online application form reimbursement request form students UPIC internship postings UPIC HR and Payroll Training UPIC Program Informational Video contact us International Internship Program Off-Campus Internship Program students students faq's employers Contact Us Micro Internship Program Internships and COVID-19 FAQ COVID-19 Virtual Services Student Information Annually the University Professional Internship and Co-op (UPIC) program provides over 900 paid, on campus internships for Clemson University undergraduate students. The UPIC program is a leader in the creation of a campus-wide culture that involves students partaking in meaningful and relevant developmental experiences. Students have the opportunity to work alongside Clemson University faculty and staff gaining professional work experience in their field of interest and study. UPIC interns are required to register for the online Internship (INT) Course and complete all related assignments. Students interested in participating in the UPIC program can apply to UPIC internship positions through ClemsonJobLink. For more information on how to access ClemsonJobLink click here. UPIC Internship Course Through the UPIC program, undergraduate students have the opportunity to secure an academic notation validating their internship experience on their transcript. Once students have secured a UPIC internship, interns are required to register for the online Internship (INT) Course and complete all related assignments. Course Fee The fee for the course is $200. The last day to withdraw from the class without a W Grade is consistent with the last day to withdraw from any course according to the Clemson University academic calendar, which can be found at http://www.registrar.clemson.edu/html/Acad_Cal.htm. INT Course Registration Students must resister for the required INT course through iRoar before the last day to add courses for the semester. If you are having trouble adding the following INT courses: INT 1520, 1530, 1540, 2520, 2530 or 2540 please contact Dr. Caren Kelley-Hall at caren@clemson.edu. If you are having trouble adding the following INT courses: INT 1510 or 2510 please contact Lisa Robinson at lrobin3@clemson.edu. INT Course Sections Part-Time Internships - 160 hours Course 1st Internship Experience INT 1510-001 2nd Internship Experience INT 1520-001 3rd Internship Experience INT 1530-001 4th Internship Experience INT 1540-001 Full-Time Internships - 320 hours Course 1st Internship Experience INT 2510-001 2nd Internship Experience INT 2520-001 3rd Internship Experience INT 2530-001 4th Internship Experience INT 2540-001 Internship Course Training UPIC FAQs Click a question to see the answer! What is a UPIC internship? University Professional Internship and Coop (UPIC) internships are paid, on-campus internships that provide an opportunity for undergraduate students to expand their knowledge and gain hands on experience in their fields of study/interest, working along side Clemson University’s faculty and/or staff. All UPIC internships are documented on your transcript Is the INT course required to participate in the UPIC program? Yes, all UPIC interns are required to register for the INT course. All UPIC interns secure an academic notation on their transcripts. How many site hours do I need to complete per semester? The UPIC program provides part-time and full-time internship experiences for undergraduate students. Part-time interns need to complete a total of 160 hours and Full-time interns need to complete a total of 320 hours. All hours must be completed by the last day of the semester. Do I get paid to be a UPIC intern? Absolutely, all UPIC internships are paid however pay differs based on the type of internship. All Part-time interns receive $10-$12/hour and Full-time interns receive $14-$16/hour. Am I able to earn raises as a UPIC intern? Pay raises are awarded based on successfully passing the UPIC Internship course (INT), which includes timely submission of assignments, completion of a site visit and reaching the hours requirement; as well as continuation with the same internship and department. Payrate increases are determined by the grade submitted the day grades are due to the registrar. Any grade change after the original due date will not qualify for a pay rate increase. How/When do I apply for a UPIC internship? All UPIC internship positions are posted through ClemsonJobLink. Typically Summer and Fall internships are posted towards the end of the Spring Semester and all Spring internship are posted towards the end of the Fall semester. These timelines are subject to change, so make sure to actively looking in ClemsonJobLink for new postings and deadlines. Is there a limit on the number of UPIC rotations I can participate in? No, there is not a limit. If you meet the eligibility requirements (interns must be an enrolled, full-time (12+ credit hours for part-time interns) undergraduate student in good academic standing with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0) AND you have successfully completed your previous UPIC experiences, you may participate. However, once an intern has completed 4 semesters as a UPIC intern (cumulative of all semesters in ANY department), the 5th and all future semesters will not be fund matched by UPIC and the employing department will be responsible for 100% of the salary. If I received a "No Pass", can I participate in UPIC again? If you receive a "No Pass", you will need to meet with one of our site coordinators to create a success plan BEFORE you begin another UPIC internship. If you receive a 2nd "No Pass" consecutively to the first one, you will be required to sit out of the UPIC program the next semester that you are enrolled. If you receive a 3rd "No Pass" overall, you will not be allowed to participate in any future UPIC internships. UPIC Internship Postings Sample UPIC Positions [PDF] Check out our UPIC Intern Spotlight Video! Featured Intern: David Kao Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift