Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries data, analytics and salaries Annual Reports 2020-2021 2019-2020 First Destination Survey Archived Reports Archived FDS Surveys Archived Salary Data (Tabular Results) Archived Annual Reports National Salary Resources COVID-19 Virtual Services Reporting and Data Resources While serving our students is our number one priority, we know data is important to all of our stakeholders. We hope the following reporting and data resources are helpful to our students, families, faculty/staff, and employers. Annual Report First Destination Survey Archived Annual and FDS Reports National Salary Resources Annual Reports Our annual reports provide an overview of the services, events, and programs provided to undergraduate, graduate students, and first-year alumni. Our data reporting cycle runs from August 15 – August 14 to follow the academic year. Over 28,000 student contacts for 2020-2021 Annual Reports 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020 77% of the class of 2021 participated in counseling or workshops during their time at Clemson First Destination Survey We collect information on students’ “first destination” after Clemson, salary information, and experiential education, study abroad, and research opportunities students engaged in while at Clemson. We created an interactive webpage that allows you to filter the data. Click on the link to view the results. A brief tutorial will pop up on how to use the dynamic webpage. We distribute a survey to all of Clemson University’s graduates (bachelors, masters, and doctorate) within two weeks of the three commencement ceremonies (August, December, and May). Students receive automated reminders over a 3 month period. 61.78% of students completing the 2019-2020 first destination survey reported having accepted a full-time offer or were working full-time at the time of graduation. 2019 - 20 Clemson First Destination Survey Results National First Destination Survey Results as collected by NACE 72% of undergraduate students within the Class of 2019-20 reported participating in at least experiential education experience during their time at Clemson. Archived Annual and FDS Reports Our archived Annual Reports and First Destination Survey reports can be found at this page National Salary Resources Even though our department collects salary data from our university’s graduates, we know it is also helpful to look at national salary resources as well. NACE Salary Calculator and Salary Data Center Students: The National Association of Colleges and Employers offers the most accurate compensation data available. Employers: The National Association of Colleges and Employers offers the most accurate compensation market data available for human resource professionals. AAUW Salary Negotiaton Workshop - The American Association of University Women is a non-profit, non-partisan organization that works to champion equity for women and girls. AAUW’s salary negotiation workshops are designed to help you negotiate for a new job, raise, or promotion. Considering a Job Offer NerdWallet - NerdWallet's Cost of Living Tool is a resource for new grads and college students to compare costs between two cities based on lifestyle and data-driven information. Additionally, it offers articles and studies on the best cities for new grads, job seekers, and aspiring homeowners. PayScale - PayScale is a market leader in global online compensation data. With the world's largest database of individual employee compensation profiles, PayScale provides an immediate and precise snapshot of the job market. Salary.com - Salary.com offers helpful resources for people at every money moment of their career. MoneyGeek.com - MoneyGeek.com offers several money management calculators including this Cost of Living Calculator. LinkedIn Salary Resource Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift