Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Employee Onboarding You are here Home Employee Onboarding About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links University's Vaccines Webpage COVID-19 Vaccination Requirement In accordance with the City of Philadelphia’s mandate, all Temple University students, faculty, staff, and contractors must be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 by November 15, 2021, unless they have a medical or religious exemption approved by the University. You will need to have either received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine or an approved exemption by October 15, 2021, to comply with this mandate. Individuals who do not have an exemption or do not receive their first dose by October 15 or, if required, their second dose by November 15, 2021, will be prohibited from working until proof of vaccination or an exemption is provided. For more information visit the University's Vaccines webpage, or speak with your HR contact. University's Vaccines Webpage University COVID-19 vaccination requirement Welcome to Temple University. We are excited that you have chosen to pursue your potential here at Temple, one of America’s finest research institutions. We look forward to having you on our team. The following resources will allow you to familiarize yourself with Temple University and hit the ground running when you arrive on campus. If you have any questions while you review this information, please contact Temple Human Resources at 215-204-7174 or refer to About HR. Contents Employment Eligibility Verification (Form I-9)Creating an AccessNet Account in TUportalGet My OWLcardNew Hire OrientationEmployee BenefitsWorkplace BankingDirect DepositTaxes and DeductionsUpdating Personal InformationEmployee ManualRules of ConductThe Americans With Disabilities Amendment ActContact Us Employment Eligibility Verification (Form I-9) Prior to an employee’s start date, the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigrations Services requires employees to complete the Form I-9. Completing Form I-9 Once hired, you will receive a welcome email from Equifax. If the email is not received, contact your department hiring manager. Step 1: Complete Section 1 of the Form I-9 online through Equifax. Step 2: Complete Section 2 of the Form I-9 by scheduling an appointment at an I-9 Anywhere location. I-9 Anywhere is a remote compliance solution that offers newly hired employees the flexibility of completing Section 2 of the Form I-9 at one of many locations across the United States. This is a quick and convenient option for employees to comply with the Form I-9 processing requirements using a certified I-9 completer. List of Acceptable Form I-9 Verification Documents To finalize the Form I-9, new hires must present unexpired original documentation that shows their identity and employment authorization to work in the United States, within three (3) business days of their first day of work. Here is a reference guide to the list of acceptable documents as defined by the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigrations Services. Creating an AccessNet Account in TUportal To create an AccessNet account, follow the instructions provided through Equifax (included with your employee onboarding materials) or go to AccessNet Account Activation and follow the instructions. Get My OWLcard The OWLcard identifies you as a Temple employee and provides access to many services at Temple. The OWLcard is used to access university buildings, parking facilities and recreation facilities, and can also be used as a debit card through the university’s Diamond Dollars program. To get your OWLcard, visit the Human Resources office located in the Student Activities Center. COVID-19 Modified Instruction During the COVID-19 modified work schedule, HR is only issuing OWLcards to employees who are working on campus. To request an OWLcard, submit your photo image to IDbadge@temple.edu at least 24 hours before your first day of work. Photos will not be taken in the HR office. Here are the photo submission requirements. You will be notified via email when your OWLcard is ready for pickup. Remote employees should contact HR to obtain their OWLcard when they are scheduled to begin work on campus. Please direct any question regarding employee OWLcard to IDbadge@temple.edu. Please direct any question regarding employee OWLcard to IDbadge@temple.edu. New Hire Orientation As part of the employee onboarding process and New Hire Orientation, faculty and staff are welcomed and introduced to the university’s relevant policies, procedures, resources and benefits. This informative e-learning program is assigned shortly after your start date. Contact the Learning and Development Department at pds@temple.edu if you have any questions or have trouble accessing the online New Hire Orientation. Employee Benefits Temple values the health and well-being of our faculty and staff. We offer comprehensive, competitive benefits packages that include healthcare, dental, vision, employee retirement savings plans, life insurance and disability benefits. Temple employees are incentivized to take control of their health through the Total Wellness program which offers resources, challenges and rewards for healthy behaviors, including the opportunity to earn a discount on monthly healthcare contributions. Benefit enrollment is facilitated online. If you are eligible for benefits, you will be provided the relevant enrollment information. Benefit packages vary by employee classification. For benefit enrollment questions, call 215-926-2270 or email benefits@temple.edu. Workplace Banking At Temple, we offer employee banking through PNC Bank and PFCU. Employees can open a free checking or savings account when selecting to be paid via direct deposit. If you are interested in opening an account, visit PNC Bank or PFCU for details. Direct Deposit Direct deposit is the university’s preferred method of payment as well as the quickest, safest and most convenient way to receive your pay. Your regularly scheduled pay will be safely transferred electronically to the savings or checking account of your choice and can also be split among accounts. Taxes and Deductions Temple University is required to withhold federal, state and local taxes from each pay you receive and remit to the appropriate taxing authority. In addition, we are required to list these deductions on your paycheck showing your wage paid and taxes withheld. As part of the onboarding process, new hires will be provided information regarding completing the required tax forms. Learn more about taxes and deductions. Updating Personal Information For ease and convenience, current employees can easily and securely update their personal information in TUportal. Note that some updates may require additional security verification. To perform the update, login to TUportal > Staff Tools tab > Personal Information channel. Then select the information to update. If you are no longer an employee, contact us at 215-204-7174 for assistance. Employee Manual The Temple University Employee Manual is a ready source of information about Temple University and the policies and procedures applicable to employees. The official copy of the manual is maintained online and updates to policies may occur from time to time. Please take some time to review the manual and familiarize yourself with the policies it contains. If you have any questions regarding the contents of the manual, please feel free to discuss with your supervisor or call Human Resources at 215-204-7174. Rules of Conduct All university employees are expected to maintain certain standards of conduct, professionalism and performance to ensure a safe and productive environment for our university community. Temple’s Rules of Conduct provide information regarding these expectations and standards. Accommodations Under the Americans With Disabilities Amendment Act Temple University is an equal opportunity employer committed to a policy of inclusivity. If you require an accommodation in order to perform the essential functions of your job, see more information on the process and find instructions for applying. If you would like to discuss your needs and/or your request, please feel free to contact the Labor and Employee Relations Department at 215-926-2290 or email elrel@temple.edu. Contact Us For other questions regarding the employee onboarding process, call 215-204-7174. Go Back HomeMore in About HR Careers at Temple Employee Onboarding HR Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.