Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries Become a Career Ready Tiger! Click here to learn more about our Professional Development Certificate program UPIC Staff Celebrating 10 years! Congratulations! Need a Virtual Drop-in Session? Start a Chat for a link! Counseling Hours Drop-In hours: Monday through Friday from 1:30 pm to 3:45 pm. Appointments: 10 am to 11:30 am and 1:30 to 4 pm Monday through Friday. Call (864) 656-0440 to Schedule an appointment. UPIC Magazine Issue 5 Click here to check out our fifth UPIC Magazine Your career closet Have an interview? Need an outfit? Come browse the Career Closet and find that outfit you need! Click here for more information. Looking for a Job or internship? ClemsonJobLink has over 1200 Job Postings with new postings every week. Log-in today and see where you can go! Click here for more information safeguard your jobsearch! click here to learn about various job search scams. Engage With Us Through JobLink Login Current Students Username: Password: Log In Learn More Alumni Login Employers Login Explore the Cooperative Education Program The Cooperative Education Program offers a structured academic engaged-learning experience to undergraduate students. For over 100 years, Cooperative Education has been a premier engaged-learning program. Clemson’s program is a traditional co-op program with each student’s experience being monitored by the program’s academic staff. Please take a look at our program and if you would like more information, do not hesitate to contact us! Explore Here! Visit the Michelin Career Center The Michelin Career Center serves both students and employers through a variety of services. We offer students, in all stages of their education, career counseling and assessments, resume and cover letter reviews, information workshops, job search advice and more. Students and employers can take advantage of our on-line recruiting system, ClemsonJobLink, for job postings, on-campus interviews, company information sessions and career fairs. Visit Us! Discover the Internship and UPIC Programs Internships provide a great opportunity for students to gain work experience and make connections with professionals in their field prior to graduating. Student engagement is one of Clemson University’s areas of investment and to meet this goal Clemson has expanded its internship and co-op programs with the addition of the UPIC program. Whether Co-op, off-campus internship, or on-campus UPIC internship or co-op, we look forward to working with both the employer and the student to develop a unique opportunity of learning, professional development and productivity. Discover Now! Events Benefits and Salary HR professionals Anthony McKnight (MSML) and Kelsey Crawford will discuss resources in determining a competitive salary. Specifically, they will work through one of the most valuable systems for a salary market analysis that is entirely free for our students. They will also review typical benefits students should look for at companies they consider for employment. A Zoom link will be sent to your prior to the workshop. Jun 07 Read More... Be Your Own Boss – Building Your Side Hussle Attend this session to learn more about developing your entrepreneurial pursuits and how to discover new opportunities for your future. A zoom link will be sent to you prior to this event. Jun 14 Read More... Polishing your Professional Image Did you know that 92% of students believe that dressing well is an important part of acing an interview, but nearly 1 in 5 say they aren’t even sure what to wear to an interview? (Source: IndiCo Suitable Attire). This interactive workshop will review the essentials of creating your unique polished and professional look and the necessities to dress for success. Whether you are preparing for the career fair, a conference, an interview, or other professional experiences you want to make sure you look your best. A zoom link will be sent prior to this workshop. Jul 13 Read More... SAVE THE DATE! Fall Suit-Up! Event SHOP CAREER DRESS APPAREL Our Annual Suit-Up event is back and we are excited about continuing our partnership with JC Penny! Everything you need to finish your look for that next interview or new job, including suits, dresses, sport coats, dress pants, shoes and accessories. Details will be posted closer to the date with times and discounts. Mark your calendars today! Sep 18 Read More... SAVE THE DATES! Fall Career Fairs Save the Dates! Our Fall Career Fairs are scheduled for September 20th, 21st and 22nd. The first two days will focus on Technology, Manufacturing, Eng., & Science and the third day will focus on Social sciences, Humanities, and Business. All three days will be held in Littlejohn Coliseum from Noon to 4 PM. Registration and detailed information will be available the first week in July. Sep 20 - Sep 22 Read More... Jun 07 Benefits and Salary HR professionals Anthony McKnight (MSML) and Kelsey Crawford will discuss resources in determining a competitive salary. Specifically, they will work ... 11:30 AM to 12:15 PM Virtual Via Zoom RSVP TODAY! Jun 14 Be Your Own Boss – Building Your Side Hussle Attend this session to learn more about developing your entrepreneurial pursuits and how to discover new opportunities for your future. A zoom link w... 11:30 AM to 12:15 PM Virtual Via Zoom RSVP TODAY! Jun 22 Interviewing Stories Students will learn how to explain elements of their resume and experience, how to be professional in an interview and proper communication during the... 11 to 11:45 AM Virtual Via Zoom RSVP TODAY! Jul 06 Cultivate Mentorship Anywhere A good mentor can make a huge impact on your life. Join this panel to ask questions about how to find mentors wherever you are in your professional jo... 11 to 11:45 AM Virtual Via Zoom RSVP TODAY! Jul 13 Polishing your Professional Image Did you know that 92% of students believe that dressing well is an important part of acing an interview, but nearly 1 in 5 say they aren’t even sure... 11:30 AM to 12:15 PM Virtual Via Zoom RSVP TODAY! Sep 18 SAVE THE DATE! Fall Suit-Up! Event SHOP CAREER DRESS APPAREL Our Annual Suit-Up event is back and we are excited about continuing our partnership with JC Penny! Everything you need to ... JC Penny Store, 3187 N. Main S... See All Events Our Corporate Partners Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift