Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Defined Contribution Retirement Plan You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Benefits Administration Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links The university offers a 403(b)/401(a) defined contribution retirement plan to eligible employees with investment through TIAA/Fidelity Investments. Contribution levels vary by job classification and/or bargaining unit agreements. For a brief description of the plan for which you may be eligible, please view the appropriate employee category listed below. Eligible faculty and staff can enroll within 31 days of date of hire or during any open enrollment period which is every June and December. Contents Non-Bargaining Unit Employees and Tenured/Tenure Track FacultyNon-Tenure Track FacultyBUE Employees1199C & PTEA EmployeesPolice and Security Officers (Local 511)Nurses (NATU/PASNAP)How to EnrollContact Us Non-Bargaining Unit Employees and Tenured/Tenure Track Faculty Eligibility and Contributions Full-time nonbargaining unit employees and tenured/tenure track faculty may enroll in the defined contribution retirement plan within 31 days of date of hire or during the open enrollment period every June and December. Contributions will begin on the first of the following month after enrollment. Vesting Three years of participation is required to be fully vested in the university’s contribution. Breakdown of retirement contribution for employees that are not represented by a union. Employee Contribution University Contribution Base Annual Salary 4.5% of base salary Matches 8.5% of the base salary Up to $142,800 +5.0% of base salary Matches +13.0% of the base salary Over $142,800 Non-Tenure Track Faculty Eligibility You may begin contributions effective the first of the month following hire date or during open enrollment periods every June and December. Vesting Vesting in the university's contributions requires three years of participation. Contributions Breakdown of retirement contribution for employees represented by Non-Tenure Track Faculty. Faculty Member Contribution NTT Participation University Contribution 4.5% of base salary Effective July 2000 Matches up to 7.5% of the base salary BUE employees Eligibility You may begin contributions effective the first of the month following hire date or during open enrollment periods every June and December. Vesting You will be 100% vested after three years of credited service. Contributions No employee contribution is required. Breakdown of retirement contribution for employees represented by BUE union. Employee Contribution University Contribution No Contribution Matches 4.25% of base salary 1% of base salary Matches 5.25% of base salary 2% of base salary Matches 6.25% of base salary 1199C & PTEA Employees Eligibility You may begin contributions effective the first of the month following hire date or during open enrollment periods every June and December. Vesting Vesting requires five years of participation. Contributions No employee contribution is required. The contribution level is based on years of participation as follows. Beginning Jan. 1, 2007 Breakdown of retirement contribution for employees represented by 1199C and PTEA Bargaining Unit/union. Years of Participation University Contribution Less than 3 years Matches 3% of base salary 3–4 years Matches 3.5% of base salary 5–6 years Matches 4% of base salary 7–8 years Matches 4.5% of base salary Greater than 8 years Matches 5% of base salary Police and Security Officers (Local 511) Eligibility You may begin contributions effective the first of the month following hire date or during open enrollment periods every June and December. Vesting You will be 100% vested after three years of participation. Contributions No employee contribution is required. The contribution level is based on years of participation as follows. Effective March 1, 2015 Breakdown of retirement contribution for employees represented by Police and Security Officers Local 511 union. Employee Contribution University Contribution No Contribution Matches 4% of base salary 1% of base salary Matches 5% of base salary 2% of base salary Matches 6% of base salary 3% of base salary Matches 7% of base salary 4.5% of base salary Matches 8.5% of base salary Nurses (NATU/PASNAP) Eligibility You may begin contributions effective the first of the month following hire date or during open enrollment periods every June and December. Vesting Vesting in the university's contributions requires three years of participation. Contributions Breakdown of retirement contribution for employees represented by Nurses union NATU/PASNAP. Employee Contribution Years of Participation University Contribution 4.5% of base salary Less than 3 years Match 4.5% of base salary 4.5% of base salary 3–4 years Match 5% of base salary 4.5% of base salary 5–6 years Match 6.5% of base salary 4.5% of base salary Greater than 6 years Match 8.5% of base salary /hr-resources/our-functional-areas/benefits-administration/employee-retirement-s… Enroll In A Retirement Plan See instructions and learn how to complete the enrollment process. /hr-resources/our-functional-areas/benefits-administration/employee-retirement-s… How to enroll in a retirement plan. Contact Us For questions regarding the defined contribution retirement savings plan, call 215-926-2270 or email retirement@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.