Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Classifications and Enrollment Process You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links This sections provides pertinent information regarding student insurance coverage and the enrollment process. Student Classifications Undergraduate, Graduate, Dental, and Law StudentsMedical, Podiatric, and Pharmacy StudentsInternational Students (F1 and J1 Visa Status)TUGSA – Graduate and Teaching AssistantsContact Us Undergraduate, Graduate, Dental, and Law Students While attending Temple University, you are not required to have health insurance coverage. Click here for additional for information about Temple University’s student responsibilities. Enrollment Information How to Enroll Log in to TUportal. Navigate to Students Tools tab. Scroll down to the Resources section. To enroll in one of the university-sponsored health insurance plans, complete the Student Health Insurance Enrollment Application form. Plan Rates The plan rate depends on the plan option you select. The rates are effective for an academic year. Therefore you will be paying the same monthly premium (bill) every month. See additional information about plan rates. Accident Insurance Specific students enrolled in the College of Public Health professions, School of Dentistry, School of Medicine, School of Podiatric Medicine upperclass, and School of Pharmacy students are enrolled in a supplemental accident plan that reviews incidents such as needle sticks, sharp injuries, etc. See additional information about accident insurance. Medical, Podiatric, and Pharmacy Students The university requires you to have health insurance while attending Temple University. See additional for information about Temple University’s student responsibilities. If outside coverage is purchased, you must complete a Certification of Outside Coverage form each academic year during the open enrollment period. Enrollment Information How to Enroll/Complete a Waiver (Certification) of Health Insurance Log in to TUportal. Navigate to the Next Steps channel. Find and select the health insurance notification. Waive or Enroll in a health insurance plan. To Waive the university's health insurance, complete the Certification of Health Insurance form. To Enroll in one of the university-sponsored health insurance plans, complete the Student Health Insurance Enrollment Application form. Plan Rates The plan rate depends on the plan option you select. The rates are effective for an academic year. Therefore you will be paying the same monthly premium (bill) every month. See additional information about plan rates. Accident Insurance Specific students enrolled in the College of Public Health professions, School of Dentistry, School of Medicine, School of Podiatric Medicine upperclass and School of Pharmacy students are enrolled in a supplemental accident plan that reviews incidents such as needle sticks, sharp injuries, etc. See additional information about accident insurance. Disability Insurance (Medical School only) In addition to health insurance, all medical students are automatically enrolled in a disability policy. See the Disability plan policy and the Disability Claim form. International Students (F1 and J1 Visa Status) Temple University requires all international students with F1 or J1 visa status maintain health insurance that meets certain minimum standards as determined by the United States Department of State. The minimum health insurance coverage as determined by the U.S. Department of State is as follows. A maximum deductible of U.S. $500 per accident or illness Payment of at least 75% of covered expense Medical benefits of at least U.S. $100,000 per accident or illness Repatriation benefits of at least U.S. $25,000 (Automatic enrollment) Medical evacuation benefits of at least U.S. $50,000 (Automatic Enrollment) Enrollment Information How to Enroll/Complete a Waiver (Certification) of Health Insurance Log in to TUportal. Navigate to the Next Steps channel. Find and select the health insurance notification. Waive or Enroll in a health insurance plan. To Waive the university's health insurance, complete the Certification of Health Insurance form. To Enroll in one of the university-sponsored health insurance plans, complete the Student Health Insurance Enrollment Application form. Plan Rates The plan rate depends on the plan option you select. The rates are effective for an academic year. Therefore you will be paying the same monthly premium (bill) every month. See additional information about plan rates. Medical Evacuation and Repatriation Insurance Plan In addition to health insurance, all international students with F1 or J1 visa status are automatically enrolled in a medical evacuation and repatriation insurance. The plan is administered by The Hartford. See plan documents and policy information from The Hartford. Disability Insurance (Medical School Only) In addition to health insurance, all medical students are automatically enrolled in a disability policy. See the Disability plan policy and the Disability Claim form. TUGSA: Graduate and Teaching Assistants While attending Temple University, you are not required to have health insurance coverage. See additional information about Temple University’s student responsibilities. Enrollment Information How to Enroll Log in to TUportal. Navigate to Student Tools tab. Scroll down to the Resources section. To Enroll in one of the university-sponsored health insurance plans, complete the Student Health Insurance Enrollment Application form. Plan Rates If you were awarded a graduate assistantship and are eligible for a health insurance subsidy, the subsidy amount will be applied to your premium during the enrollment process (It will appear as SUBSIDY APPLIED next to the cost of your selected plan). If the subsidy is not applied, contact the graduate school to confirm all relevant processes were completed. When confirmed, you can complete your health insurance application. The plan rate depends on the plan option you select. The rates are effective for an academic year. Therefore you will be paying the same monthly premium (bill) every month. See additional information about plan rates. Contact Us For questions regarding student health insurance, email studentinsurance@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.