Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Job Search Prep Cover Letters “Do I really have to write a cover letter?” If it’s an option, we recommend it! A well-written cover letter: Highlights your written communication skills; Expands on specific experiences from your resume you want the hiring manager to know more about; Shows you’ve done your homework on the company/organization; Allows you to name drop someone who referred you to apply to the position. A cover letter is like an advertisement! Opening paragraph Catch the reader’s attention. What position are you applying to? What interested you about the position/company? Have you spoken with someone in the company/organization about applying? Take the time to customize your cover letter to fit the job description. Make it clear you’ve done your homework on the company and position to stand out in the hiring pool. Middle paragraph(s) Communicate your skills and experience with concrete examples. Your cover letter should not just restate what’s already on your resume. Instead, it should provide additional detail and context for your experience. This section can be anywhere between 1-3 paragraphs depending on the amount of experience you have, but your letter should fit onto one page. Consider breaking these paragraphs into themes related to types of experience (e.g., academic and work), or skill sets (e.g., customer service, leadership). Final paragraph Compel the reader to act and thank them for their time. Reiterate your contact information so it’s extra easy to contact you for an interview. You can also restate your interest in the position and their company. Overall formatting Use the same header as your resume with your name and contact information. Keep your cover letter to 1 page in length. Use block paragraph formatting to follow the business letter style. Resources Cover Letter Tips Jayhawk Ready Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.