Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Career Center Home About Mission & Vision Our History Advisors Staff Our Brochure Undergraduate Career Advisors Explore Careers Internships Co-ops Honors Celebration LGBTQIA Resources FAQs Pre-Graduate & Pre-Professional Advising Job Search Resources Career Tools Resume Guide Professional Attire Interviewing Policies for Students Identifying Fraudulent Positions Graduate Getting Started Our Graduate Services Make an Appointment Job Search Advice/Resources Upcoming Events Graduate Internship Program Career Fair Information & General Job Aids Resume Guide Multicultural & Diversity Resources Graduate Professional Development Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Graduate Professional Development Video Series GT Campus Closet Employers Employer Town Halls Employer Connections Team Recruiting @ GT Posting a Job On-Campus Recruiting Student Resume Books Employer Proctoring Information Sessions Corporate Partnership Program Co-op & Internship Programs Global Internship Program Hiring Non-U.S.Citizens FAQs Career & Salary Survey Reports Alumni Pre-Graduates and Pre-Professionals Employment & Job Links Alumni Career Services Events Career Alliance @ GT Career Fairs Information Sessions Workshops Building/Visitor Parking Map Career Chat Hour Series Employer Insight Series Career Fair Employers After Hours Workshop Requests Contact Hours of Operation Location Travel, Hotels, & Attractions Directory & Staff Parents CareerBuzz Job Board Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Contact Travel, Hotels, & Attractions Directions to Campus Bill Moore Student Success Center Directions to Campus Hotels Near Campus Atlanta Restaurants and Attractions Atlanta Weather Public Transportation Driving Directions to Campus Driving South on I-75/85 into Atlanta: Take I-75/85 South Take Exit #249D ( North Avenue). At the top of the exit ramp, turn right onto North Avenue. Cross Techwood Drive (the first light) and pass the football stadium on your right and the alumni house on your left. After driving underneath the overhead foot bridge, turn left into the Area #1 Parking lot, which is labeled with a yellow sign. Driving North on I-75/85 into Atlanta: Take I-75/85 North Exit at Spring St/West Peachtree (Exit #249D) At the end of the exit ramp, proceed through the first intersection. At the next intersection, turn left. Continue on West Peachtree for one block. Turn left on North Avenue Cross over the Interstate and Techwood Drive. Pass the football stadium on your right and the alumni house on your left. After driving underneath the overhead foot bridge, turn left into the Area #1 Parking lot, which is labeled with a yellow sign. Hotel Reservations Hotel Listings Atlanta Restaurants and Attractions You can use the following links to get information on Atlanta's restaurants and attractions for your trip. atlanta.citysearch.com accessatlanta.com atlanta.net Atlanta Weather View the latest Atlanta weather from cnn.com/weather Back to Top Taxi from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport to Georgia Tech: Cab: Take a cab through downtown Atlanta to the Georgia Tech Campus. The Bill Moore Student Success Center is located on North Avenue (225 North Avenue, Atlanta 30332) next to the Bobby Dodd Football Stadium. Cab fare is approximately $30. For pick-up from the Student Success Center, you can call Checkers Cab Service at 404-351-1111 and ask them to pick you up at 631 Cherry Street or 190 North Avenue. MARTA (Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority): If you are taking MARTA from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport The Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (MARTA) is Atlanta's public transit system. There are three MARTA rail stations that allow convenient access to Georgia Tech from the airport. The rail station nearest to the Center for Career Discovery and Development office is the North Avenue Station: http://www.itsmarta.com/getthere/railmapbig.htm From the airport take either northbound line (Doraville or North Springs) to the North Avenue Station. Once you exit the station, walk west on North Avenue towards Georgia Tech’s campus (you will see the Coca-Cola world headquarters skyscraper in the distance.) At the intersection of North Avenue and Fowler Street, ascend the stairs under the archway and take an immediate right. Follow the path to the Student Success Center. The walking distance from the North Avenue station to our office is approximately ½ mile. For any additional schedules or bus routes, visit http://www.itsmarta.com. Instagram LinkedIn Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Tech Career Center Bill Moore Student Success Center 219 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA. 30332 (404)894-3320 careercenter@gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login