Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Experiential Learning Certificate Programs Certification programs offer students the unique opportunity to earn transcript certification for a range of experiences within and outside of the classroom. Each certification is structured to integrate academic study with substantive hands-on experience in a particular interest area. Certification programs are completed in addition to your degree program and are open to students in any major. Upon completion of a certification program, you will receive notation on your transcript and special recognition for completion of the certification. Because the certification programs engage you beyond the classroom, they deepen your learning and offer documentation that showcases your interests and expertise. Participating in one or multiple certification programs can boost your academic credentials and help you demonstrate important skill sets. With the certification programs, you can follow your interests and earn credit for active learning experiences. Visit the Experiential Learning and Academic Programs site to learn more about all experiential programs at KU. Arts Engagement Certification Curious about the arts but don't have time to minor? Students from all majors can receive a broad introduction to arts and explore the rich arts culture at KU with the Arts Engagement Certificate. Coursework, event attendance, and a capstone reflection assignment will earn you certification in Arts Engagement. Certificate in Entrepreneurship Taking your dreams to the marketplace is central to the Certificate in Entrepreneurship! This program is a way to conceptualize, fund, and start your own business through a four-course process in the School of Business. Leadership Engagement Certificate Dynamic leadership is not something that comes naturally—it comes through experience. Get the experience you're looking for with the Leadership Studies Certificate. Through coursework and experiential learning you gain valuable experience as a leader that you can take beyond KU and into the world. Global Awareness Program The Global Awareness Program (GAP) recognizes international experiences and helps students develop skills necessary for global competence and success in an ever-changing world. To achieve certification, students complete two components selected from activities such as study abroad, learning a foreign language, taking internationally-themed courses and participating in international co-curricular events. This certification is only available for undergraduate students with GAP certification. Certificate in Service Learning Service learning is a credit-bearing, educational experience in which students participate in an organized service activity that meets identified community needs and reflect on the service activity in such a way as to gain further understanding of course content, a broader appreciation of the discipline, and an enhanced sense of civic responsibility. Certification in service learning offers a chance for students to utilize their classroom skills to meet community needs and earn recognition at the same time with Service Learning certification. Research Experience Program The Research Experience Program (REP) recognizes and encourages students’ participation in research and creative endeavors. The program requires completion of coursework in research/creative methods as well as work on a research/creative project with Research Experience certification. Certificate in Professional Selling The mission of the professional selling program is to prepare students for successful careers in consultative selling. Graduates of the program will help consumers and businesses define their needs, understand and evaluate buying options, facilitate effective purchase decisions, and forge enduring relationships. Featured Resources Career Courses Career Exploration Tools Edwards Campus Certificates Accounting Advanced Professional Skills American Sign Language Nutrition Strength & Conditioning Literature, Language & Writing Post-Baccalaureate in Health Science Public & Population Health Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.