Academic and Student Affairs Think and Do The Extraordinary Support Student Success Career Development Center MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content About Us About Us Appointments Our Team Career Ambassadors Interview Locations Wolfpack Styled Professional Clothing Closet For Alumni For Faculty and Staff Explore Careers Explore Careers Career Identity Program Career Identity Advocate 4 Year Career Plan Career Courses and Podcast Career Assessments Gain Experience Gain Experience Career Guide Resume Examples Internship and Job Search Salary Information Career Fairs List of Events Virtual Career Fair Resources How to Prepare for a Fair What to Wear PackPros Pre-Professional Services Students Moving Forward Co-op Co-op Overview Co-op Information Session Steps to Co-op Once Hired – Your Next Steps Important Dates FAQ Rural Works! About Rural Works! Students Featured Internships SECU Public Fellows Internship Program Employers Fast Facts FAQs Resources For Employers Overview Visibility on Campus Employer Policies Virtual Career Fair Resources Career Fairs and Events Co-op Employers Corporate Partners Plan Your Visit Video Tutorials Use ePACK Start Exploring Your Career Opportunities Today See how the Career Development Center can jumpstart your career search. Make an appointment The Career Development Center prepares and empowers students to identify and pursue their career goals. 2021-2022 Career Guide – Be Career Ready! Career Development Center Employer of the Week DEI Resources for Students and Employers Career Development Center on Centennial Campus! Follow on Instagram This error message is only visible to WordPress admins Error: There is no connected account for the user 17841400498719860. User Follow on Instagram This error message is only visible to WordPress admins Error: There is no connected account for the user 17841400498719860. Recent News | Read more... Dressed for Success December 7, 2021 Thanks to a new crowdfunding initiative, Wolfpack Styled Professional Clothing Closet received its first donations from alumni and friends, which will provide 20 clothing stipends to under-resourced students. Since it launched in 2014, the closet has continued to find new ways to serve the campus. Howling Success: ‘Exceling’ at Microsoft September 21, 2021 Thanks in part to support and guidance from the NC State Career Development Center, Selena Harrison enjoyed an unforgettable summer internship with Microsoft. That’s a Rap July 13, 2021 NC State’s Juntos program recently held its 2021 Virtual Summer Academy, where Latino students participated in workshops on college, financial literacy, wellness — and helped create raps about the COVID-19 pandemic. Search for: Career Development Center 2100 Pullen Hall 201 Dan Allen Drive Campus Box 7303 Raleigh, NC 27695-7303 career-development@ncsu.edu 919.515.2396 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Email About Us Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback Site Index Division of Academic and Student Affairs About Find Help on Campus Departments Giving Search for: © 2022 Career Development Center | Log in