Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries michelin career center Ask us a Question career development CU 1200 Class career counseling services majors and careers is graduate school for you Newly Accepted Students online workshops our handouts job search career fairs ClemsonJobLink diversity resources find a job job search tools and links interview resources resumes and cover Letters salary & job offer resources safeguard your job search job search scams our handouts career closet graduate student resources employer services corporate partner program recruiting information Company Connections Career Fairs and Events resources directions contact our team parent and family resources Our Career Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Core Competencies COVID-19 Virtual Services Career Development & Recruiting Career Counseling Services Appointments Drop-Ins What is it? A scheduled time to meet with a counselor For longer inquiries A quick on-demand meeting with a counselor For shorter inquiries How long will it last? 30 minutes or 1 hour 10 - 15 minutes Suggested topics: Choose Major / Career path (30 minutes to 1 hour) Personal statements / Graduate school essays - printed hard copy only ( 30 minutes) Mock Interviews ( 1 hour) Resumes & Cover letters - printed hard copy only (30 minutes) In depth internship / job search assistance (30 minutes) Resumes - printed hard copy only Interview tips Taking a Career Assessment Part-time Jobs General internship / job search assistance Career Center Services What next? Call, 656-0440, or stop by the Career Center to schedule an appointment. Stop by the Career Center during our drop-in hours; see schedule below. Appointments and Drop-in Schedules Cancellation and No-Show Policy for Scheduled Appointments: If you need to reschedule or cancel your appointment, please notify our office 24 hours in advance. This allows our staff to offer your appointment time to another student, who is in need of our services. Failure to cancel your appointment within 24 hours, more than once, will result in losing your appointment privileges for the semester; however, you may still utilize our drop-in services. Spring Schedule: Appointments: Students can call (864) 656-0440 to schedule an individual in-person or virtual appointment with a counselor for questions or assistance. Appointments are available 10 am to 11:30 am and 1:30 pm to 4 pm Monday through Friday. You can also email our staff at cucareercenter@gmail.com to schedule an appointment. Drop-in Counseling Hours: Students may drop-in for quick, 15 minute one-on-one counseling sessions from 1:30 pm to 3:45 pm, Monday - Friday. Virtual Drop-in Counseling Hours: Students may request a quick, 15 minute one-on-one virtual counseling session from 1:30 pm to 3:45 pm, Monday through Friday by starting a chat session with a member of our staff. The on-call staff member will provide the Zoom link for the day through the chat wiindow. The chat feature is located to the bottom right of our home page. You can also email our staff at cucareercenter@gmail.com Virtual Services: We are here to assist you! Visit our virtual services page to see all of our virtual services. INT 8010 CPT Advising: If you have a 130 form and need CPT approval from the career center, email your 130 form and a copy of your offer letter to bnewsom@clemson.edu. The offer letter must include: start/end dates, pay, hours per week, and job description. Questions about which INT course to take? Email bnewsom@clemson.edu. Co-op CPT Advising: Students enrolled in Co-op with a Co-op offer should call (864) 656-3150 to schedule a time for advising. Monday - Friday, 8 am to 4:30 pm. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift