Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Wellness Resources You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Total Wellness Wellness Resources About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links It is important to take time to focus on your overall well-being. The Total Wellness program is committed to providing resources to support you in this effort. Contents Independence Blue Cross ResourcesAmerican Heart Association ResourcesMagellan Behavioral Health ResourcesContact Us Independence Blue Cross Resources IBC Health Coach Offers one-on-one personalized help from a registered nurse, who can answer questions about health concerns for you or your family. The concerns include chronic conditions and illness. Health coaches are available by phone 24/7 at 1-800-275-2583. Learn more about health coaches. IBC Wellness Coach Offers one-on-one personalized support and encourages you on your path to a healthier lifestyle through goal setting, resources and ongoing conversations. Wellness coaches have extensive experience and education in the areas of coaching, exercise physiology and nutrition. Learn more about wellness coaches. On To Better Health This is an online confidential behavioral therapy program that provides resources to help you manage stress including self-assessments, articles, videos and personalized guided therapy available 24/7. To access this program, log in and navigate to the Independence Blue Cross member portal > Health & Well-Being tab > Select Value – Added Services. Conquering Social Distancing Programs This program provides resources to help you set goals and complete activities focusing on physical health, nutrition, work-life boundaries, healthy sleep and stress management. To access the program, login and navigate to the Independence Blue Cross member portal > Health & Well-being tab > Achieve Well-being > Add New+ > select Conquering Social Distance program. Health and Wellness Videos Choose from a selection of 525 videos. These videos focus on stress management, sleep, depression, emotional well-being and other health related topics. To access the videos, log in and navigate to the Independence Blue Cross member portal > Health & Well-being tab > Healthy Living > Health Videos. Telemedicine (MDLIVE) Service MDLIVE is a convenient option for nonemergent medical issues instead of a visit to your doctor’s office, clinic or urgent care center. You can have a conversation with a board-certified doctor on the phone and/or by secure video, smartphone or mobile app anytime, no matter where you are, anytime, day or night. See instruction on how to activate your MDLIVE account. You pay the same copay as an office visit. Learn more about Telemedicine (MDLIVE) services. Telebehavioral Health With telebehavioral health, you can have virtual visits by phone or videochat with a licensed healthcare professional. You pay the same copay as a specialist visit. Contact a telebehavior health provider by calling 1-800-688-1911. Learn more about telebehavioral health. IBX App This is your private communication channel with IBC for all of your important healthcare needs. As an option to accessing your healthcare information and utilizing services via the Independence Blue Cross portal, the IBX app provides the convenience of access via a mobile device. Download the free IBX app for easy access to your healthcare coverage 24/7, wherever you are. Learn more and download the IBX app. IBX Wire IBX Wire is a simple and secure way to stay informed about your health plan. Get personalized reminders about your health, notifications about important plan information, screening reminders and much more securely through text message or email. Register for IBX Wire or text IBX WIRE to 73529 to sign up. Wellness Guidelines for All Ages The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) and The Health Care Education and Reconciliation Act (HCERA) of 2010 provide for free preventive health screenings for the average person according to the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Resources. IBC provides additional wellness guideline recommendations not included in the USPSTF guidelines for preventive health. Wellness guidelines for adults aged 65+ Welnness guidelines for adults ages 18–64 Wellness guidelines for children up to age 17 Please discuss your individual needs and the recommended wellness screenings with your healthcare provider. The booklets are not a statement of benefits. Refer to your employee benefit information for the complete detail of your healthcare coverage. Fitness Program The Achieve Well-being is a personalized program designed to help you in your fitness journey. The online tools and resources help you achieve what is important in a way that is simple, easy and fun. Learn more about the Achieve Well-Being Fitness Program. Tobacco Cessation Program The program is designed to support individuals that want to quit smoking. In addition to the support, the program has incentives participants for completing an approved tobacco cessation program. Learn more about the tobacco cessation program. Weight Management Program The program is designed to provide you with support resources and tools to achieve your desired weight-management goals. The personalized program emphasizes helping you achieve what’s important in a way that is simple, easy and fun. Learn more about the weight management program. American Heart Association Resources The AHA is dedicated to fighting heart disease and stroke. For nearly 100 years, the organization has been helping people live longer, healthier lives. AHA offers online healthy heart assessment and recommendations. To access the MyLife Check Assessment, go to mlc.heart.org. You must create a profile to access this program. Note: the Profile Company Code is TUD001 i.e. TUD zero zero one. Magellan Behavioral Health Resources Magellan Behavioral Health provides tools and resources ranging from mental health, addiction counseling and child care to legal and financial advice. Access the available programs via the Magellan’s Assist member portal. Register as a guest by entering the toll-free number 1-800-688-1911 or create your own personalized account. Once logged in or registered, you can access the Magellan Healthcare COVID-19 Response page from the homepage to find resources to cope with stress and anxiety, staying emotionally well, preventing compassion fatigue, and more. Also available is Magellan’s 24-hour, toll-free crisis hotline line and crisis text line. Assistance is provided by certified, licensed mental health clinicians. Call 1-800-327-7451 (TTY 711) if you need to talk, or text SUPPORT to 78137 from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. ET, Monday through Friday. Texts received outside of these hours will be directed to the crisis telephone hotline. Contact Us For questions regarding the Total Wellness program, call 215-926-2285 or email TotalWellness@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.