Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries About Us Ask us a Question Contact Us Staff Directory Org Chart Corporate Partners Data and Analytics Directions to the CCPD Our Career Ambassadors Our Co-op Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Privacy Policy COVID-19 Virtual Services cooperative education internship programs Michelin Career Center Career Development and Job Search Parent and Family Resources Employer Services LPL Financial LPL Financial is the nation's largest independent broker-dealer. Our company is widely known for its financial strength, exceptional service, and favorable industry reputation among financial professionals. To understand who we are, it's important to know our core belief: financial guidance is a fundamental need for everyone. LPL Financial creates the space to let you do what you do best – create personal, long-term client relationships that turn financial aspirations into realities. Each year, thousands of financial professionals successfully manage billions of dollars in assets. Because our company is not too big and not too small, you can seize the opportunity to make a real impact. Visit LPL Financial's website at https://careers.lpl.com/. We appreciate our corporate partners. Learn more about the Corporate Partner Program. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift