Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Direct Deposit You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Payroll Management Direct Deposit Advice About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links In order to facilitate a quick, convenient and safe way to pay our employees, Temple uses direct deposit as its preferred means to electronically remit payment. The transfer can be directed to a personal checking or saving account at a financial institution of your choice. Enrollment is done at the time of hire, and changes are made securely in the Staff Tools tab in TUportal. Please allow sufficient time for direct deposit to begin, or when making changes. In the interim, you will receive a paper check mailed to your permanent address pending your bank account verification. Please STOP the direct deposit process BEFORE closing your bank account. There may be a fee assessed for returned funds on closed accounts. Contents Paycheck/Direct Deposit AdviceTaxes and DeductionsView My PaycheckWorkplace BankingU.S. Bank Focus CardContact Us Paycheck/Direct Deposit Advice The university paycheck and/or direct deposit advice provides employees with a detailed Statement of Employee Earnings and Deductions. This statement should be retained for your records and not discarded. The statement is organized into the following sections. Employer Contact Information Payroll Department mailing address and phone number Employee Information TUid Social Security number (last four digits) Employee name Permanent address Pay date Pay ID (monthly or biweekly) and pay number Pay period dates Payment Summary for Current and Year-to-Date Pay Total gross pay amount Total personal deductions Net pay amount Total employer contributions Earnings and Hour Detail by Position Current and year-to-date gross amount of earnings paid by type Benefits, Deductions and Taxes Deductions before federal tax: Amount of current and year-to-date employee deductions withheld on a pretax (before tax) basis and employer contributions made on behalf of employee, if applicable. These items include but are not limited to pension, medical and dental benefits, medical spending, dependent care, and qualified parking and transportation. Taxes: Amount of current and year-to-date employee taxes withheld and employer contributions made on behalf of employee, if applicable. After-tax deductions: Amount of current and year-to-date voluntary and involuntary deductions withheld after taxes. Federally Taxable Benefits Listing of federally taxable benefits in which the taxes are deducted on the value of the benefit amount such as the imputed income on the excess value of life insurance over $50,000. Check or Direct Deposit Listing of net pay disbursement information such as document number, document type, bank name, account type and amount Messages Important communications to employees from Payroll Management Office Filing Status: Federal, State and Local Elections made on the Federal Form W-4 and/or State Form W-4. Refer to Required Tax Deductions for additional details. Taxes and Deductions Temple University is required to withhold federal, state and local taxes from each pay you receive and remit to the appropriate taxing authority. In addition, we are required to list these deductions on your paycheck showing your wage paid and taxes withheld. At end of the tax year, as required by Internal Revenue Service, a Wage and Tax Statement (Form W-2) will be issued to you. Note that the information presented below is in accordance with federal, state and local taxing authority regulations. See additional information on taxes and deductions. View My Paycheck View your paycheck details in TUportal > Staff Tools tab > Pay and Tax Information. View in TUportal Workplace Banking Temple University offers on-campus banking options for employees. PNC Bank’s WorkPlace Banking is a program of special offers and enhanced benefits to help guide your financial achievement. Get savings and rewards on banking services, technology tools to help you bank how and when you want, and convenient access to your funds with the option of direct deposit of your paycheck into a PNC checking account. There are several PNC ATMs located throughout campus and a convenient branch at 1908 Liacouras Walk, Philadelphia, PA 19122. A PFCU branch is located in the Howard Gittis Student Center at North 13th Street and West Montgomery Avenue. Visit PNC Bank Visit PFCU U.S. Bank Focus Card Provides you with a simple, safe and convenient way to receive your funds, make purchases and track your spending. All Temple University employees are eligible to enroll in this program. Even if you are currently enrolled in direct deposit, you can elect to enroll in this program and allocate either a percentage or specific dollar amount to your card so that you can take advantage of the many benefits in addition to regular direct deposit! For additional assistance, contact us at 215-926-2244 or email paycard@temple.edu. Using Your Card Cash Back Rewards (PDF) Enrollment Form (PDF) Contact Us If you require additional assistance with the direct deposit process, call 215-926-2244 or email hrpayroll@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.