Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Workers’ Compensation You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Temple University provides Workers’ Compensation Insurance coverage to employees as defined by the Pennsylvania Workers’ Compensation Act. Faculty, staff, student workers, work-study students and recognized volunteers are considered employees for purposes of workers' compensation coverage. This program provides medical and/or wage loss benefits to employees who suffer an injury or illness in the course and scope of their employment. Employees are required to report all work-related accidents and illnesses immediately to their supervisor, even if they do not require medical treatment. Contents Workers' Compensation PolicyWhat to Do if You Are Injured at WorkOther Provisions of the Workers' Compensation ActContact Us Workers' Compensation Policy All employees and supervisors must promptly and properly report workers’ compensation incidents, and employees must receive appropriate medical treatment for work-related injuries and/or illnesses. Panel of Healthcare Providers Refers to the posted list of healthcare providers designated by Temple University to be utilized by injured and/or ill employees during the first 90 days of medical care, if needed. Temple University Workers' Compensation Panel of Healthcare Providers. Medical Treatment For Work Injury and/or Illness The First 90 Days of Treatment During the first 90 days of treatment, employees MUST be provided medical treatment by a panel healthcare provider. Employees seeking treatment from a nonpanel healthcare provider during the first 90 days will jeopardize reimbursement by Temple University. If, during the 90-day period, an employee wishes to change healthcare providers, they may do so provided the visit is to another panel healthcare provider. After 90 Days of Treatment After the first 90-day period of treatment, an employee may choose to continue treatment from the posted physician or specialist to whom the employee was referred, or seek treatment from another duly licensed healthcare provider, provided that the employee notifies the claims administrator within five (5) days of the first visit to the nonpanel healthcare provider. Contact the claims administrator at 215-926-2272. continue treatment until discharged by the healthcare provider. What to Do if You Are Injured at Work Summary of what to do if an employee is injured at work. 1. Report the injury and/or illness, regardless of how minor, to your supervisor at the time of the incident. 6. Send a copy of the Workers’ Compensation Incident Report and Rights and Responsibilities Forms to the Absence Management Department via fax 215-926-2274, or email workcomp@temple.edu. 2. If you need emergency treatment, call or have someone else call Campus Safety at 215-204-1234. If you are off campus, call 911. Or, go directly to Temple Hospital’s Emergency Room or the nearest emergency room for treatment. For follow-up treatment, follow instruction step 6. 7. For nonemergency care, seek treatment from one of the healthcare providers listed on our panel. You are required to treat with the university’s healthcare providers for the first 90 days of care. 3. Complete your portion of a Workers’ Compensation Incident Report Form. You can get the form from your supervisor, Employee Health Services, Occupational Health Services or by reaching out to the Absence Management Department. 8. Incidents involving a work-related fatality, a hospitalization, an amputation or the loss of an eye must be reported immediately to Temple University’s Department of Environmental Health and Radiation Safety at 215-707-2520 or ehrs@temple.edu. 4. Present the completed Workers’ Compensation Incident Report Form to your supervisor. 9. Continue treatment until discharged by the healthcare provider. 5. Have your supervisor review the Rights and Responsibilities Form with you. Then sign it in the appropriate space. 10. Contact the Workers’ Compensation Office at 215-926-2273 or at workcomp@temple.edu if you have any questions. Employees certified as unable to return to work and/or with an indefinite return-to-work date must remain in contact with their supervisor and the claims administrator at 215-926-2272. Other Provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act Indemnity and Medical Benefit Payment for Employees Collecting Workers' Compensation Temple University compensates any employee who sustains a work-related injury and/or illness in accordance with the Workers’ Compensation Act. This payment is known as an “indemnity benefit” and is in addition to any medical benefits the injured worker may receive under the law. Indemnity benefits are not payable to an employee for the first seven calendar days, unless the disability equals or exceeds 14 calendar days. During the first seven calendar days of absence due to a work-related injury or illness, the employee must use any sick days available, including sick bank days. If the work-related absence equals or exceeds 14 calendar days, and payment for the first seven calendar days of disability is made to an injured and/or ill employee under the Workers’ Compensation Act, the employee will be required to reimburse Temple University for those sick days paid to the employee. The sick days will be added back to the employee’s accrued sick leave. Medical payments are made directly to healthcare providers for services rendered with regard to an employee’s work related injury and/or illness. Benefits Continuance and Seniority Accrual for Employees Collecting Workers' Compensation While collecting workers’ compensation benefits, an employee accrues seniority but does not accrue sick or vacation time. Unless otherwise covered by a collective bargaining agreement, employment will be terminated for those employees who are absent for more than 12 months. The employee will continue to receive workers’ compensation benefits until such benefits are terminated in accordance with Pennsylvania law. If an employee is covered under Temple University’s health insurance plans (medical, dental and other insurance), coverage will continue for up to six months of any workers’ compensation leave period provided that the employee continues to pay their share of the cost of such coverage. At the end of this period, the employee will receive notice of their right to continue health insurance coverage under COBRA. Employees covered under a union benefit plan should contact their union for information concerning the continuation of health benefits. Position Retention for Employees Collecting Workers' Compensation When an employee is on workers’ compensation-related leave, Temple University holds open the employee’s position for up to six (6) months (including any period covered by the FMLA). Employees who are medically cleared to return to work after six months of absence should notify the Human Resources Department. The employee will be reinstated to a comparable position if available. If no position is available, the employee will be treated in accordance with Temple University’s reduction-in-force (RIF) policy (Section 16.5) for purposes of determining eligibility for reinstatement. Family and Medical Leave for Employees Collecting Workers' Compensation Temple University requires employees to use Family and Medical Leave (FMLA) for all work-related absences or illnesses that also meet the FMLA criteria. FMLA provides up to 12 weeks of job protection and, to be eligible, employees must have worked at least 12 months and 1,250 hours in the last year. Employees who meet the criteria for FMLA will be contacted by the Absence Management Department with regard to this program. Returning to Work for Employees Collecting Workers' Compensation Temple University will make every effort to place employees who are released to return to work, with or without medical restrictions, in an open position for which the employee is otherwise qualified. Temple University reserves the right to assign employees with work restrictions to light duty assignments. As soon as an employee is medically cleared to return to work, with or without restrictions, the employee must present their release to the Absence Management Department. Absence Management will then review appropriate and available open positions throughout Temple University for a period of no less than 30 days and notify the employee in writing of job availability. Contact Us For questions regarding workers’ compensation, call 215-926-2273 or email workcomp@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.