Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Job Search Prep Interviewing The interview process is a conversation between you (the applicant) and your potential employer. The purpose of the interview is to find out 3 things: Do you have the skills and experience to do the job? Do you have the motivation, work ethic, and energy to achieve the necessary objectives? Will you fit in with the company's organizational dynamics and culture? How to Ace Your Interview Before Get the details of when, where, and with whom you’ll be meeting. Look up directions to the location and where to park. Research the employer so you won't be stumped by common questions like, “What interested you in this position?” or “What do you know about our company?” Check your online professional image. Your online presence on social media and other sites should be an asset, not a liability. Prepare your outfit. For most interviews, you should wear business attire – ideally, a two-piece matching suit. Practice, practice, practice. You can brainstorm your answers for common interview questions, practice with friends, family, in front of the mirror, or online, or schedule a mock interview appointment at the UCC. Need business professional clothing for an upcoming interview or networking event? Check out the Professional House of Garments (P.H.O.G.) in Summerfield 203 for free interview-ready clothing items, including suits, shoes, ties, and shirts. During Arrive 15 minutes before the scheduled interview. Remember: the interview begins as soon as you arrive on site. Be polite and friendly to everyone, and offer a firm handshake. Be aware of your body language. Sit up straight, make eye contact, and smile. Be positive and enthusiastic. Deliver thoughtful, relevant responses that emphasize results. Prepare to ask questions of your own, including asking about next steps and/or timeline of the interview process to demonstrate your interest in the position and company. After Thank the hiring manager for the opportunity to interview in person at the end of the interview. Send a thoughtful thank you note or email. Resources Mock Interview Tool Ready Prep Interview Professional Image Jayhawk Ready Employer Research How-To Guides Interviewing Job Search Resumes Accessible How-To Guides Interviewing Job Search Resumes Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.