Skip to Main Content Welcome and thank you for your interest in a career with Providence College Toggle navigation Home Search Jobs Log In /Create Account Help College Mission and History Clery Act About HR Notice of Non-Discrimination Please be advised that if you are a successful candidate, you will be required to prove that you have received the COVID-19 vaccine or have valid religious or medical exemptions. Exemptions must be requested and finalized prior to the start date. In addition, if the successful candidate is not vaccinated, they will be required to participate in surveillance testing and comply with mask-wearing requirements for the unvaccinated, per the CDC's guidance What We Value Providence College, a primarily undergraduate, liberal arts, Catholic institution of higher education conducted under the auspices of the Dominican Friars, seeks candidates who can affirm and contribute to its mission. The College is committed to creating a diverse, inclusive environment that supports all of its students, faculty, and staff. All members of the community share a responsibility for creating, maintaining, and developing a learning experience valuing differences and practicing inclusion. We invite applications from qualified individuals who possess the experience, knowledge, and commitment to work within a diverse learning environment. Women and minority candidates are strongly encouraged to apply. Providence College is an equal opportunity employer. Our application process allows you to apply on-line for positions at Providence College. Not only can you apply online, but you also may update your online application and apply for other positions that become available in the future. You may log in using your personal username and password to review the status of your application during the recruitment process. For best results with the online application process, it is recommended that you use the navigational buttons within the site. Staff Positions Faculty Positions Student & G.A. Positions Employee Benefits About PC Staff Resources Faculty Resources Diversity and Inclusion American's with Disabilities Act Providence College and the Office of Human Resources are committed to serving our faculty and staff to meet the highest potential of their abilities. Because of this, Providence College recognizes that not all employees are the same and, furthermore, that each employee is defined by a different combination of skills, abilities, experiences, and potential. Faculty and staff with learning, physical, or psychological disabilities may need reasonable accommodations or services to ensure they can fulfill the duties of the position they hold. To ensure these needs are met, the Office of Human Resources works to provide faculty and staff who may need individual accommodations in their office with the resources necessary for growth and success at Providence College. For more information please visit: https://human-resources.providence.edu/about/ Contact Us If you have questions, please call: For Staff Positions, please call 401-865-2745. For Student and Graduate Assistant Positions, please call 401-865-2927. For Faculty Positions, please call 401-865-2155. If it is after hours email the Office of Human Resources at hr@providence.edu. Contact Us If you have questions, please call: For Staff Positions, please call 401-865-2745. For Student Employment, please call 401-865-2927. For Faculty Positions, please call 401-865-2155. If it is after hours email the Office of Human Resources at hr@providence.edu. Benefits Page Employee Benefits Providence College: 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918-0001 Back to top Copyright © Providence College To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at . Any data not saved will be lost. Click 'OK' to keep your session active.