Skip to main content Skip to main site menu Careers Search Menu Search this site × Close the search box Search Search and Apply for JobsToggle sub-navigation Close this sub-navigation Staff Positions Temporary Positions Student Employment Academic Positions Frequently Asked Questions Benefits At-A-Glance Contact Close Search and Apply for Jobs Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Staff Positions Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Temporary Positions Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Student Employment Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Academic Positions Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Frequently Asked Questions Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Benefits At-A-Glance Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Contact Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Careers Portal Georgetown Career Opportunities Search and Apply for Jobs Learn More Comprehensive benefits package Our benefits extend beyond health care coverage to help provide employees with a work-life balance More Perks Faculty and staff enjoy access to world-class speakers, community service projects, an employee wellness program, discounted performing arts and athletic events, and more More Who we are Established in 1789, Georgetown University is a leading research university with a heart. Our talented workforce contributes daily to ensure a better future for our community More The University provides distinct career opportunities at our: Main Campus In historic Georgetown Medical Center In historic Georgetown Law Center On Capitol Hill School of Continuing Studies Downtown Washington No matter where you work at Georgetown, you are part of a diverse university community that reaches across the globe. If you are interested in temporary positions at Georgetown University, please click here. Why Georgetown? As the largest private employer in the District of Columbia, Georgetown strives to model a workplace environment committed to fairness, equity, and competitiveness. We embody these principles in the diversity of our students, faculty, and staff, our commitment to justice and the common good, and our international character. Engage deeply as a member of this dynamic team and make the most of your experience as part of Georgetown’s thriving community. Our Recruitment Practices: How it works Diversity and Inclusion Need Accommodations? Veterans How it works Georgetown University conducts pre-employment screening for all positions. The screening may include but is not limited to, a criminal background check, verification of academic credentials, licenses, certifications, and/or verification of work history. Georgetown utilizes an online system that will require a valid email address. Offers of employment are conditional, based on satisfactory completion of the pre-employment background check process. Diversity and Inclusion Georgetown University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer fully dedicated to achieving a diverse faculty and staff. All qualified applicants are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex (including pregnancy, gender identity and expression, and sexual orientation), disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law. (EEO is the Law Supplement, Pay Transparency NonDiscrimination Provision) Need Accommodations? If you are a qualified individual with a disability and need a reasonable accommodation for any part of the application and hiring process, please click here for more information, or contact the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity & Affirmative Action (IDEAA) at (202) 687-4798. This enables you to: • Apply to new jobs. (You can submit only one application for each job number.) • Review the status of jobs you have applied for. • Edit your contact information Veterans The University emphasizes recruitment of women, minority group members, disabled individuals, and Vietnam-era veterans. The Georgetown University Veterans webpage includes a list of resources and programs offered by the University. Current Applicants: Your current applications and open positions have been converted to our new recruiting platform. You can now have access to your applicant record and associated documents through our new portal. For access to your applicant record, including account acesss and help navigating the new recruitment site please contact the Help Desk at help@georgetown.edu. Internal Applicants (Current Georgetown Employees): All internal applicants will now be required to apply directly through GMS. Click here for a guide on how to apply as an internal applicant. For assistance, please contact the Help Desk at help@georgetown.edu. Careers Maps Copyright Privacy Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination Full Site Menu