Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries About Us Ask us a Question Contact Us Staff Directory Org Chart Corporate Partners Data and Analytics Directions to the CCPD Our Career Ambassadors Our Co-op Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Privacy Policy COVID-19 Virtual Services cooperative education internship programs Michelin Career Center Career Development and Job Search Parent and Family Resources Employer Services Enterprise Holdings Welcome. It's great that you're thinking about joining us. But first, you should learn a little about who we are and what we stand for. It all started with Jack Taylor and seven cars. Now, Enterprise, Alamo and National have teams of talented people in countries around the world. That means, no matter where you live, there’s probably a great opportunity with us right down the road. Enterprise Holdings is a family-owned, world-class portfolio of brands. We operate a global network that covers nearly 100 countries, nearly 80,000 dedicated team members, and nearly 1.7 million vehicles taking customers wherever they need to go. In any way you want to think about it, we lead the transportation service industry. How did we get here? The fact is, we owe our success to each and every one of our people. That's why we empower everyone on our team with opportunities for growth. Our mission, along with our uncompromising commitment to customers, has made Enterprise a genuine success story and a truly special place to work. Visit Enterprise Holdings's website at https://careers.enterprise.com/. We appreciate our corporate partners. Learn more about the Corporate Partner Program. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift