Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries About Us Ask us a Question Contact Us Staff Directory Org Chart Corporate Partners Data and Analytics Directions to the CCPD Our Career Ambassadors Our Co-op Ambassadors Clemson Career Blog Privacy Policy COVID-19 Virtual Services cooperative education internship programs Michelin Career Center Career Development and Job Search Parent and Family Resources Employer Services Bosch Our value-adding innovations are Invented for life - and they are unrivaled in quality, performance and reliability for people and the environment. Our mission is to improve the quality of life with Bosch products. State-of-the-art technology and sustainable growth are our cornerstones. At the same time, we fully embrace our social and ecological responsibility. That is how we make sure we deliver what people need, now and in the future. When you work at Bosch, you are part of a leading technology and services company. We operate in over 60 countries around the globe. In fiscal 2014, our approximately 360,000 associates generated sales of 49 billion Euros. Bosch is a privately held company. That means we can act with financial independence, plan for the long term and invest in the future. To give just one example of how we do that, we spend over 5 billion Euros each year on research and development. The result: 4,600 new patents filed annually around the world. Visit Bosch's website at https://www.bosch.us/careers/. We appreciate our corporate partners. Learn more about the Corporate Partner Program. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift