Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Careers at Temple You are here Home Careers at Temple About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links University's Vaccines Webpage COVID-19 Vaccination Requirement In accordance with the City of Philadelphia’s mandate, all Temple University students, faculty, staff, and contractors must be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 by November 15, 2021, unless they have a medical or religious exemption approved by the University. You will need to have either received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine or an approved exemption by October 15, 2021, to comply with this mandate. Individuals who do not have an exemption or do not receive their first dose by October 15 or, if required, their second dose by November 15, 2021, will be prohibited from working until proof of vaccination or an exemption is provided. For more information visit the University's Vaccines webpage, or speak with your HR contact. University's Vaccines Webpage University COVID-19 vaccination requirement Unleash Your Potential Employment at Temple University means much more than a competitive salary. Temple strives to maintain a culture of diversity and inclusivity and to provide employees with opportunities for growth, development, continuing education and advancement. You will enjoy a collaborative working environment that values innovation and creativity. Our health and wellness benefits are among the best in the region and our retirement savings plans allow you to plan for the future. Enjoy recreational, entertainment and cultural activities both on campus and throughout the Philadelphia region. Hear more about working at Temple from Provost JoAnne Epps and CFO and Treasurer Ken Kaiser. Why Choose Temple? Commitment to Diversity and InclusionEmployee DevelopmentHealth and WellnessEmployee Retirement Savings PlansEntertainment and Cultural ActivitiesAnnual Campus Safety ReportSearch and Apply For JobsContact Us Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Temple University is committed to building a diverse educational community founded on the appreciation of others, open-mindedness and respect. Our policies, practices, and programs exemplify our commitment to civility, nondiscrimination and pluralism, encouraging dialogue that builds meaningful and collaborative relationships throughout the university. Our shared responsibility is to enhance the quality of life for everyone at Temple. We provide a safe, supportive and welcoming environment for our employees to grow, learn and work, thus realizing the transformational power of being part of the Temple community. Temple University is committed to a policy of equal opportunity for all in every aspect of its operations, including employment, service and educational programs. The university does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, marital status, national origin or ethnic origin, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, or veteran status. Human Resources supports this commitment to diversity and inclusion through its hiring practices; learning and development programming; and collaborations with our Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership. Our employment practices support the commitment to diversity and inclusion by focusing on equity, valuing diversity and upholding the dignity of Temple University employees. Employee Development Temple University offers many opportunities for employees to enhance skills, gain new perspectives and grow professionally. Earn your bachelor's degree or an advanced degree through our tuition remission benefit. Find out more about advanced degrees at Temple. Develop your management and leadership skills in one of HR Learning and Development’s flagship academies while collaborating and networking with peers and leadership from across the university, or take advantage of many other developmental opportunities. Health and Wellness Temple University offers all eligible faculty and staff comprehensive health and prescription packages. Coverage includes medical, prescription, dental, vision and a number of additional benefit options. Temple also offers Total Wellness, a voluntary program through which you can earn discounts on your monthly medical plan contributions by leading a healthy lifestyle. All employees are eligible to take advantage of our Employee Assistance Program which provides resources on a range of topics, such as mental health and addiction, legal matters, and family care. Learn more about the university's health insurance plans. Employment Retirement Savings Plans All eligible Temple University employees have access to employee retirement savings plans. These plans asist you with planning for retirement. The plans are designed for you to contribute a portion of your salary, and the university will match your contribution up to a specified percentage. Entertainment and Cultural Activities Temple’s on-campus cultural and entertainment options are endless. After work, attend a concert at Temple’s Performing Arts Center in the former Baptist Temple, see a play at the Tomlinson Theater or a basketball game at the Liacouras Center. Whatever your interests, you will find an event on campus or just a short ride down North Broad Street into downtown Philadelphia. Find out more information about arts and entertainment at Temple and in Philadelphia. Annual Campus Safety Report Temple University’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available to current and prospective Temple University students and employees in accordance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act. The report contains crime and fire statistics related to Temple University campuses for the past three years and important policies and procedures involving safety on campus. Obtain the most recent copy of the report. For questions regarding campus safety, contact Temple University Campus Safety Services. Search and Apply For Jobs Find your new job Search and Apply For Jobs Begin your job search by selecting the type of position you are interested in. Find your new job Search and Apply For Jobs Contact Us For questions regarding careers at Temple, call 215-204-7174. Go Back HomeMore in Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.