Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Health insurance is available to all full-time employees, faculty members and their eligible dependents. Eligible dependents include the employee’s spouse and biological, adopted and/or step children under the age of 26. Coverage of dependent children is through the end of the month in which they reach the age of 26 under the medical and prescription coverages. For dental and vision coverages, they are covered through the end of the year in which they reach age 23. Plan copayments are based on the employee’s job classification and collective bargaining agreements. For specific plan details, refer to detailed summaries and additional information in TUportal. Plan changes are allowed during the annual open enrollment period (June and December), or as a result of an approved qualifying status change. Contents Medical Insurance CoveragePrescription CoverageDental Insurance CoverageVision Care CoverageDetailed Plan Summaries and Additional InformationContact Us Medical Insurance Coverage Medical insurance covers all full-time employees, faculty members and their eligible dependents. The plan may vary by job classification and whether the position is represented and covered by a collective bargaining agreement. As a benefit to Temple University employees, Temple Health, Temple University Physicians and Temple Physicians Inc. will waive applicable copayments for current employees and their dependents with medical insurance coverage under the Temple University benefit program. Medical Plan Types Personal Choice Medical Plan This is a preferred provider organization (PPO) that allows you the freedom of choice to choose in network providers anywhere in the United States through the BlueCard PPO Network. You can also access doctors and hospital around the world through the Blue Cross Blue Shield Global Core program. Keystone Health Plan East Medical Plan This is a health maintenance organization (HMO), which requires employees to choose a primary care physician. All medical services must be performed or authorized by the primary care physician with a written referral. Personal Choice $2000/$30 Medical Plan This is a preferred provider organization (PPO) that allows you the freedom of choice to choose in-network providers anywhere in the United States through the BlueCard PPO Network. You can also access doctors and hospital around the world through the Blue Cross Blue Shield Global Core program. Some services have copays, while others are subject to a yearly deductible. Temple Providers As a convenience to our employees, Temple also provides the following services irrespective of medical plan type. Physician Services Physician services is a network of Temple affiliated doctors. Copays for employees and their dependents are waived during office visits. The network is an in-network provider. Find a physician. Temple University Hospitals For specialized services, employees and their dependents can also visit any of Temple’s hospitals for inpatient service. Services provided at the following Temple hospitals are considered in-network. Temple University Hospital Fox Chase Cancer Center Jeanes Hospital TUH Episcopal Campus Out Patient Sites—Temple Health If preferred, employees and their dependents can utilize Temple’s outpatient service. Copays maybe waived during visits. Services provided at the following Temple outpatient locations are considered in-network. Center City Philadelphia Ft. Washington Oaks Women’s Care at Elkins Park Urgent Care Sites (Temple ReadyCare) Cannot get an appointment with your doctor? Visit Temple ReadyCare for access to physicians and a care team for treatment of bumps and minor cuts. Instead of sitting in a crowded ER, walk in to our ReadyCare to quickly receive treatment. Learn more about the services provided, and the locations of our ReadyCare centers. Return to top Prescription Coverage Full-time employees and faculty who are enrolled in one of the university’s medical insurance plans are also enrolled in prescription drug coverage with CVS Caremark. Although there is one plan, employee and faculty copayments can vary by employee type and bargaining agreement. If you have specific questions about your prescription, call CVS customer service at 1-800-966-5772 or visit caremark.com. You may create your own user account by registering on Caremark’s site. Some or all of these provisions may not apply to select bargaining groups. Prescription Coverage Provisions Mandatory Mail Order Long-term maintenance drugs that are used on a regular basis and listed on CVS Caremark’s maintenance drug list must be filled either through mail order or at a CVS pharmacy. Members will receive the discounted pricing of a three months’ supply for the price of two months’ copay. Generic Step Therapy Generic alternatives within the same therapeutic class must be used as first-line therapy before certain targeted brand drugs are covered. If you are using a brand drug, discuss this new requirement with your physician to ensure that your drug is covered. Dispense As Written (DAW) 1 If your health provider requires a brand drug when a generic substitution is available, you will be charged a penalty in the amount of the difference in cost between the generic and the brand drug, plus your copay. This only applies when a multisource brand medication is dispensed by a physician or by customer request over available generic equivalents. If you are using a brand drug, discuss this requirement with your physician to ensure that your drug is covered. Exclusive Specialty Employees taking specialty drugs may fill their prescriptions only at a local CVS or have a physician send prescriptions directly to a CVS Caremark specialty pharmacy for home delivery. Prescription Prior Authorization For prescription prior authorization, contact CVS Caremark. Nonspecialty medications—Call the authorization line at 1-800-294-5979 Specialty medication—Call the authorization line at 1-866-814-5506 Return to top Dental Insurance Coverage Dental insurance is available to eligible full-time employees, faculty members and their eligible dependents. The plan may vary by job classification and whether the position is represented and covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Dental Plans For specific plan details, refer to detailed summaries and additional information in TUportal. Temple University Kornberg School of Dentistry Temple University Kornberg School of Dentistry extends an invitation to the Temple community of faculty, staff and students to receive dental care at their community clinic. The goal is to provide fast, efficient care in a friendly and convenient environment. Return to top Vision Care Coverage Vision care covers all full-time employees, faculty members and their eligible dependents. The plan may vary by job classification and whether the position is represented and covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The plan provides vision evaluation and provision of eyeglasses once every two years. Employees and their eligible dependents must have their eye exam performed by the Temple University Department of Ophthalmology in order to receive benefit coverage for the exam. Employees then have the option to choose a standard pair of frames and lenses for free, or different frames and specialty lenses and pay the additional cost. In lieu of eyeglasses, some employees may elect to receive a $25 allowance for the purchase of contact lenses. Employee Contribution None. Exam A vision care exam consists of an evaluation of refractive error (glasses) and an exam of the eye that includes an exam of the anterior part of the eye, the optic nerve and the central retina. Such an exam is designed to detect cornea problems, cataracts, glaucoma and macular degeneration. Advances in examination techniques often permit these exams to be done without dilating the pupil. If necessary, a dilated exam for a peripheral retinal exam or for diabetes may be done during the vision care appointment, but a follow-up medical exam may be required. Contact Lenses If you wish to have an exam for contact lenses, there is an additional charge for this type of exam. Exam Locations The university Department of Ophthalmology provides eye exams and eyeglasses at the following locations. Summary of Temple Ophthalmology locations. Health Sciences Center Jeanes Hospital Fort Washington Temple Hospital, Parkinson Pavilion 6th floor, Suite 630 3401 N. Broad St. Philadelphia, PA 19140 Ph. 215-707-5300 Physicians’ Office Building Suite 201 7500 Central Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19111 Ph. 215-707-3185 Temple Health Ft. Washington 515 Pennsylvania Ave. Fort Washington, PA 19034 Ph. 215-540-0120 Employees calling to make an appointment for themselves or a dependent will need the employee’s TUid number for verification of eligibility. Contact Temple Ophthamology. Detailed Plan Summaries and Additional Information TUportal Contact Us For questions regarding our health insurance plans, call 215-926-2270 or email benefits@temple.edu. Return to top Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.