Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Jobs & Internships Working Abroad An international job can mean working in a country abroad, working for an international company in the United States or working in a job that requires global travel. If you're considering an international career, you should ask yourself some questions first: Why are you interested in an international career? Consider your answer to this question carefully. Not only will it help guide your job search, it will also prepare you for the interview process. Ask yourself: What is my purpose for wanting to go abroad? (travel, new experience, build a career) What do I rate as most important? (job, location, pay) Why am I drawn to an international career? (emphasize the positives) What do I hope to achieve? What skills do you have? Communicate your value to prospective employers by emphasizing the skills you bring to the table. Hiring an employee from a foreign country can be a considerable risk for any organization, so it's important to demonstrate your value and commitment. Some helpful skills and personality traits may include: Technical skills in engineering or computer science Experience working in cross-cultural environments Fluency in multiple languages An adventurous spirit Interest in learning new things Demonstrated initiative and drive Flexibility, adaptability, and tenacity Information on International Career Courses The University Career Center offers 2 courses related to exploring careers working abroad. LA&S 480: Preparing for International Careers is part of the study abroad program, and enrolled students can travel to Costa Rica or London. LA&S 485: Global Career Working Abroad Resources GoinGlobal Career Courses My World Abroad Office of Study Abroad Explore Resources and Tips Resources to start your search Click to expand My World Abroad - features blogs, quizzes, and more about working internationally GoinGlobal - accessed through HireJayhawks.com; resource for researching cities and countries around the world, including application guidelines Eurograduate, The European Graduate Career Guide - working internationally from the European perspective Transitions Abroad - extensive collection of information, articles, resources and links to job listing boards from around the world AIESEC - student run organization encouraging and enabling international experiences for students UCC Index of international job listings sites KU Office of Study Abroad Internship Programs - offers summer internship programs in London, Dublin, Madrid, and Sydney Adzuna - search engine for job and internship postings in the United Kingdom BUNAC - organization that arranges visas for internships and short term work experiences in United Kingdom, Australia, Ireland and New Zealand Go Abroad - resource with internship, teaching, volunteer, and job opportunities abroad InterExchange Foundation - organization that offers grants to individuals participating in their programs and individuals organizing their own experiences abroad WorldUnite - offers volunteer, internship, and holiday work abroad programs Volunteering Solutions - offers internship and volunteer experiences abroad Tips for finding internships abroad Click to expand Ask friends and family - If you have friends or family in that country, as them for organizations with quality reputations. Use Idealist - Idealist.org's International Volunteerism Resource Center can help find nonprofit or NGO internships abroad; AIESEC is also a great organization offered at KU for finding opportunities. The KU Office of Study Abroad offers internship programs in a variety of locations including Dublin, Ireland; London, England; Madrid, Spain; Shanghai, China; and Sydney, Australia, and more. Do you qualify?--Make sure you have or can get the proper visa/work permit to do an internship abroad; Going Global is a resource that can assist you with this. Prepare - Allow 6 to 12 months for the internship search, hiring process, and paperwork involved in working abroad. Find out your credit options - Ask the University Career Center and your academic department how you can receive KU credit for your internship in case it is required by the organization. Tips for evaluating internship experiences abroad Click to expand Quick response - If the organization doesn't respond within 2 days of contact, they will probably give you a headache down the road. Ask other students - Try to track down other students who have interned with the organization and make sure they had a positive experience. Break down the cost - If the organization charges a fee, ask where that money goes and make sure it sounds reasonable. Compare comparable companies - If this organization charges far more or far less than other comparable programs, that should present a red flag. Orientation - Ask how long the program's orientation lasts, and think about whether you consider that ample to feel comfortable in your new country. Support - Ask what protocol the organization has in place should something go wrong, for example, your housing becomes unsafe or you need medical attention. Ask United Way - Ask that country's United Way about the organization to gain a sense of the organization's reputation. Do your research - Search the company's name to find articles, blogs, etc. related to the organization or other people's experiences. What international career courses are available? Click to expand LA&S 480 (formerly LA&S 492): Preparing for International Careers This course, delivered through an 8-week seminar and week-long study abroad experience, teaches the fundamentals of executing an international job search. The course is open only to participants admitted to the Preparing for International Careers study abroad program. Students must complete a study abroad application and be approved before enrolling in the course. More information and an online application about the London program as well as the Costa Rica program is available on the Study Abroad website. Semester taught: spring -- Lawrence Campus (2 credits) LA&S 485: Global Career Management This global career development course studies the theories of cross-cultural communication and analyzes the global economy to help students apply these concepts to their own lifelong career management. Semesters taught: fall, spring, and summer -- online (3 credits) Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.