Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries cooperative education co-op ambassadors the co-op concept the co-op rotation Co-op Program Stats students getting started Rotation Instructions Assignments Reports Instructions co-op and financial aid co-op FAQs Employers Interview Days Employer FAQs Academic Terms Co-op Salary Survey COVID-19 Virtual Services Cooperative Education Program How to enter the Co-op Program Students interested in seeking a co-op assignment should contact the Co-op Program office early in either the fall or spring semester, depending on when they want to begin their first rotation. The fall semester is the time to interview for assignments that begin in January and the spring semester is the time to interview for assignments that begin in May or August. We are located in Suite 316 of the Hendrix Center. You will find us on the third floor. We share office space with our partner the Michelin Career Center. The lobby receptionist will direct you to our suite. Eligibility Requirements Most students enter the program as sophomores or juniors. All students must have successfully completed all their freshman course requirements and have declared their majors. Students must have a minimum Clemson University GPA of 2.5 and be enrolled in a full time (minimum 12 credit hours) course load. Transfer students must have an established Clemson University GPA before entering the program. Special requirements are in place for the following majors: Mechanical engineering students must successfully complete ME 2010, Statics & Dynamics, before entering. Chemical Engineering students must be in the second semester of their sophomore year before entering. What will I be expected to do as a Co-op Student? Co-op students work closely with their co-op advisor to secure their assignments. Upon acceptance of their assignment, co-op students will sign an agreement to abide by the following basic expectations: A commitment to the schedule of the co-op rotations established with your company and with your advisor Registration in the appropriate co-op course during the semesters while on rotations (including any additional rotations beyond those required to complete the program) The completion of the basic course requirements as necessary to receive a grade of ‘P’ (pass) Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift