Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Career Courses Whether you're exploring your interests, starting your job search, or working as an intern, the University Career Center has several in-person and online classes to help support your career development while earning course credit. UNIV 120: Introduction to Engaged Learning Explore your interests in several engaged learning opportunities offered on KU’s campus, including service learning, research, global opportunities, and internships, through self-exploration and hands-on activities related to each experience. You will be able to identify the opportunity/opportunities in which you are most interested and create the materials needed to pursue that experience with the support of your instructor. By the end of the course, you will have a plan outlined to pursue the engaged learning opportunity/opportunities of your choice. You will also have completed at least one requirement related to fulfilling an experiential learning certificate. Semesters taught: spring -- Lawrence Campus (2 credits) LA&S 172: Exploring Health Professions Students will have the opportunity to explore health care career pathways broadly and will look more thoroughly at specific pathways of interest through experiential learning activities. Class-time will include discovering the knowledge, skills, and attributes typically seen in health care professionals and the requirements for gaining admission to the various professional degree programs. The course will also discuss important ethical issues in health care and the future direction of the field. This course is designed for KU students who are interested in pursuing a health care career. This includes but is not limited to: medicine, pharmacy, nursing, physician assistant, physical therapy, and occupational therapy. Approved course for BGS Career Course requirement. Semesters taught: Fall & Spring --- Lawrence Campus/On-line (spring 2021) (3 credits) EPSY 310: Career & Life Planning This hands-on class will help you navigate your unique academic and career plans through readings, class discussions and assignments. You will leave with a personalized road map that will guide your career and academic decision making for the rest of your KU experience and beyond. Semesters taught: fall and spring -- Lawrence Campus (3 credits) LA&S 372: Preparing for Programs in the Health Professions Students will participate in experiential learning activities to confirm their interest in the health care professions and prepare documents for their application. Class-time will include exploring crucial health care topics such as ethical standards, the future of medicine, and social determinants of health. Additionally, students will prepare application materials, research professional programs, create a personal statement, participate in mock interviews, and decide where to apply. This course is designed for KU students who are planning to apply in the current or subsequent academic year to a health professional program including (but not limited to) medicine, pharmacy, nursing, physician assistant, physical therapy, and occupational therapy. Approved course for BGS Career Course requirement. Semesters taught: Fall & Spring --- Online (3 credits) LA&S 470: Job Search Skills for Liberal Arts & Science Students This course emphasizes identification of individual goals, assessment of talents, exploration of career options, analysis of the job market, effective use of employment search tools (e.g., resumes, cover letters, interviewing, networking), and management of career pathways. You will learn the value of the arts and sciences degree in the labor market and develop job search skills that will be useful throughout life. Semesters taught: fall, spring, and summer -- online (1 credit) LA&S 475: Professional Career Management This advanced career development course studies the theories of career development, organizational and industrial psychology, and human resources. You will learn theories from these areas and understand how to apply them to your own professional career, future career transitions, and lifelong career progression. Approved course for BGS Career Course requirement. Semesters taught: fall, spring, and summer -- online (3 credits) LA&S 480: Preparing for International Careers This course, delivered through an 8-week seminar and week-long study abroad experience, teaches the fundamentals of executing an international job search. The course is open only to participants admitted to the Preparing for International Careers study abroad program. Students must complete a study abroad application and be approved before enrolling in the course. More information and an online application about the London program as well as the Germany program is available on the Study Abroad website. Semester taught: spring -- Lawrence Campus (2 credits) - Not planned for Spring 2021. LA&S 485: Global Career Management This global career development course studies the theories of cross-cultural communication and analyzes the global economy to help students apply these concepts to their own lifelong career management. Approved course for BGS Career Course requirement. Semesters taught: fall, spring, and summer -- online (3 credits) LA&S 490/EPSY 575: Internship Exploration Are you needing or wanting credit for an upcoming internship? If you want to complete an internship that is not related to your major, your department doesn't offer an internship course, you don't meet the requirements for your department's internship course, you are not accepted into a major yet, or you need to explore another option, you may want to consider EPSY 575/LA&S 490: Internship Exploration. This course requires permission from the instructor to enroll, additional coursework outside of the internship conducted via the Internet, working a minimum number of hours a week at the internship, and finding an internship via your own connections or the resources at the University Career Center. Approved course for Goal 6 (Innovation & Creativity) of the KU Core. Semesters taught: fall, spring, and summer -- online (1-5 credits) If you would like to enroll in this course, please complete the enrollment form. Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.