Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Career Communities What are Career Communities? Career Communities have customized events that focus on your interests and skills and offer opportunities to explore career pathways through experiences and resources. How can I learn more? Read the career community descriptions below or view their webpages to find YOUR fit. Then sign-up to connect with one or more community! Need help choosing a community? Meet with a career coach or take the Career Community Quiz to help you decide (less than five minutes)! Take the Career Community Quiz Take the Career Community Quiz Sign up for Career Communities Sign up for Career Communities Get Started with a Career Coach Get Started with a Career Coach Explore the Communities Artists, Designers, and Performers People in these fields spend time developing opportunities to showcase work; telling stories; influencing user experiences; building portfolios; studying and rehearsing roles; and collaborating with other arts organizations and individuals. This career community focuses on using various media to convey creative expression through visual arts, music, dance, theatre, creative writing, architecture, design, and film. Communicators and Leaders People in these fields spend their time leading organizations; developing and implementing strategies; building partnerships and relationships; creating and operating businesses; and bringing novel goods or services to market. This career community focuses on maximizing organizational effectiveness through branding, relationships, and services. Educators and Helping Professions This career community focuses on educating, helping and guiding others, serving public interests through teaching and human services as well as understanding people and equipping individuals to grow and thrive. People in these fields spend their time developing curriculum, designing treatment protocols, providing counseling and support, implementing policy and advocating for social change. Scientists and Technologists This career community focuses on research, analysis, design, development, education, sales, management, and support in a variety of scientific, technical and medical environments. People in these fields spend their time interacting with machines, software, and specimens; diagnosing and solving problems; collecting, and analyzing data; collaborating within interdisciplinary teams; and communicating findings and outcomes. International Professionals and Public Servants People who work internationally, either stateside or abroad, and come from any occupation that is influenced by the interaction with international people and where knowledge and sensitivity about the world's cultures, economies, and other world systems is beneficial. People who work as public servants spend their time researching and writing policy; and working within non-profit and government sectors. This career community focuses on serving the needs of the public through analyzing and setting policy and advocating for the public good. Health Professionals People who work in healh professions focus on careers in healthcare that improve lives through research; the prevention, identification, diagnosis, and evidence-based treatment of diseases and disorders; and patient rehabilitation. People in these fields spend their time working with interprofessional teams; researching and integrating the latest technology; thinking critically and solving problems in high-risk environments; and communicating and advocating for patients and their families. Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.