Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Job Search Prep Networking Although you may not realize it, you’re likely already building your career network as a student here at KU. Your relationships with people like your family, friends, coworkers, classmates, former supervisors, faculty, etc. can play a valuable role in exploring careers, job searching, and moving up in your career. Prepare Clean up your online image by making sure all content is positive and professional. Develop and promote your brand to make yourself standout. Be prepared to talk about yourself with others by knowing what you want to say and how you want to say it. Have your resume ready and be prepared to hand it out. Find Contacts Think about who you know and how these people might be able to help you reach your career goals. Utilize online tools such as LinkedIn to become an active member in online networking groups. Network using the KUAA mentoring platform: This free networking platform provides KU students access to KU Alumni who can provide career guidance and advice. Build Connections Communicate like a professional by being polite and polished when connecting with others. Value others’ expertise when you are meeting new people or building connections you already have. Maintain your relationships by staying in contact, keeping others updated, and always thanking people for their help. Return the favor by being prepared to help others with their own careers. Resources Informational Interviewing Beyond KU Careers & KU Majors KU Student Alumni Network Quick Tips Your network could include colleagues from professional associations, KU alums, or acquaintances you’ve connected with via online networking sites. To help stay connected to KU and networking opportunities, consider joining the Student Alumni Network. Students can order business cards through the University Career Center to hand out in networking and other professional events. Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.