Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries Core Competencies communication collaboration leadership Adaptability Analytical Skills Technology Self-Awareness Integrity and Ethics Brand Four Year Undergraduate Plan Competency Resources Core Competencies Integration Faculty Grant Application Competency Symposium Resources Competencies Video COVID-19 Virtual Services UNLEASH YOUR INNER TIGER Clemson Supports the Innovation of You Mindset - Clemson wants to empower you to achieve your educational and professional goals. To be successful in life after Clemson, you'll need to polish skills you already have, develop skills you don't and apply them in a variety of settings. This tool will help you identify how to - UNLEASH YOUR INNER TIGER Why - Employers and graduate/professional schools want you to demonstrate the knowledge, skills and attitude (a.k.a. competency) necessary for success in their respective environments. Who - You play a pivotal role but Clemson will provide opportunities to develop skills essential to your success. See - See what it means to be Clemson competent! Click here the watch the Competencies Video produced by students in their own words! Engagement Engagement Communication Engaging in dialogue that leads to productive outcomes and points of connection by effectively articulating one's self to individuals within and outside of one's industry or area of expertise. . . Collaboration Developing authentic and mutually beneficial relationships by valuing everyone and taking responsibility for one's role within a team. . . Leadership Being able to recognize, respect, develop, and capitalize on the unique strengths of individuals from all backgrounds and being an active member in a group that achieves a shared vision. Innovation Innovation Adaptability Taking the initiative to further enhance one's skill set and being creative with ways of thinking or approaches that allow for action, reflection, failure, and resilience in an ever-changing world. . . Analytical Skills Seizing the opportunity for organizational improvement that prompts critical thinking and problem solving by obtaining, processing and synthesizing information. . . Technology Employing current and emerging software and tools to solve general and industry-specific challenges. Professionalism Professionalism Self-Awareness Understanding one’s strengths, limitations, emotions, and biases in a variety of situations and articulating how one’s interests, skills, and values align with educational and professional goals. . . Integrity & Ethics Making choices and consistently acting in a manner that displays integrity (following internal principles, morals, and values) and ethics (following external laws, rules, and norms) in personal and professional settings. . . Brand Demonstrating the continual development of a positive impression or image in every facet of life while seeking feedback from others to ensure congruence between one’s intended and perceived reputation. Resources Looking to learn more? We're glad you asked! Check out all of our competency resources for students, faculty and staff. Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift