Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Tuition Remission You are here Home HR Resources Our Functional Areas Benefits Administration Additional Benefit Options Tuition Remission About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links The program covers all regular full-time employees, faculty members, and their legally dependent children for courses taken at the university. Legal dependent must be less than 24 years of age when initially enrolled in a Temple University undergraduate degree program. If the dependent child leaves the university and re-enrolls within a five-year period, then the child will be eligible to use tuition remission for any remaining semesters. Spouses and certified domestic partners eligibility is based on the employee job classification and/or any applicable collective bargaining agreement in effect. Refer to the information below to learn more about the plans. Contents EligibilityTuition Remission ProvisionsApply for Tuition RemissionContact Us Eligibility Full-time Regular employee and Faculty member Beginning the first semester after hire, faculty and staff can take advantage of 100 percent tuition remission for eligible courses (up to eight (8) credits for undergraduate or graduate courses per semester). Spouse/Certified Domestic Partner of full-time Faculty member OR Full-time Administrative employee grade T26 or above Beginning the first semester after hire, 50% tuition remission for eligible undergraduate/graduate courses. Dependent children of eligible employees who were hired prior to July 1, 2014 100% tuition remission for undergraduate courses, up to ten (10) semesters. Dependent children of eligible employees hired July 1, 2014* and after Year 1 of service: 50% undergraduate tuition remission. Year 2 of service: 75% undergraduate tuition remission. Beginning the 1st semester following completion of 3 years of service: 100% undergraduate tuition remission. * This date applies to Non-Bargaining employees and Faculty. Employees and Faculty members covered under collective bargaining agreements are subject to the tuition remission provisions specified in their respective agreements. Retired Full-time Administrative Staff and Faculty Retirees that were Full-time faculty or administrative staff are eligible for the same tuition remission benefits for which they were eligible the day of retirement. If a full-time faculty or administrative staff who has or had atleast 10 years of service dies prior to retirement, their children under the age of 24, are eligible for tuition benefits for up to 10 semesters, including any semesters already completed at the time of the parent’s death. Tuition Remission Provisions Professional Programs No tuition remission is given for courses taken in Temple University’s Schools of Law, Medicine, Dentistry, or Podiatric Medicine, with the exception of specially designated graduate courses as determined by the Dean’s Offices of the specific professional schools. In the School of Pharmacy, tuition remission is limited to undergraduate programs. Taxable Income Graduate and spousal/partner tuition benefits are considered taxable. Under current tax law, the value of employee graduate tuition benefits in excess of $5,250 will be included in the employee’s taxable wages and all applicable taxes will be withheld during the year that the tuition benefits are received. Spousal/partner tuition benefits, both undergraduate and graduate, are considered a taxable benefit. Financial and Academic Standing Employees and their eligible dependents receiving tuition remission must remain in academic good standing and must have paid all balances due on the account for fees that are not otherwise paid through the tuition remission benefits. Tuition Account Employees may not use tuition remission benefits unless their account is current or the employee has made arrangements to pay any past due balance in full by the end of the current semester. Forms authorizing Temple University to advance the outstanding balance on the employee’s behalf and deduct this amount in equal installments beginning with the next payroll period and continuing through the last pay period prior to the end of the semester are available in the Bursar’s Office. Tuition Remission and Scholarship(s) In no case may an employee or dependent accept both tuition remission and scholarship(s) in excess of 100% of the cost of tuition. Questions regarding scholarships should be directed to Student Financial Services. Covered Semesters for Dependent Children Brief description of the covered semester supplemented with the dependent coverage. Fall/Spring semester(s) Summer sessions Temple Abroad Tuition remission for up to 10 semesters to complete a degree in a Temple University undergraduate program. For purposes of this policy, either one or both consecutive summer sessions are counted as a single semester, and therefore, will be counted as one of the 10 semesters for which a dependent child is eligible under Temple University’s tuition remission program. Covers Temple University courses taken as part of Temple Abroad provided that he or she applies for and is accepted into the program through Temple University’s standard admission process. Eligible dependent children may be full-time matriculated students, part-time matriculated, or non-matriculated students. Eligible dependent child who is a full-time matriculated student. Eligible dependent child who is a full-time matriculated student may receive tuition remission. Apply for Tuition Remission The tuition remission program includes expenses for tuition only; any other fee(s) are not covered under the program. Employees should also be aware that in any given semester, the value of tuition remission benefits on a per-credit-hour basis will equal the per-credit-hour rate of the least costly program offering the degree at Temple University. For example, the calculated rate of tuition remission per-credit-hour for the Executive MBA program will not exceed the standard per-credit-hour rate for the traditional MBA program. Step 1: Register for the course(s). For assistance with the registration process, you may contact the Academic Resource Center. Step 2: With registration complete, employees need to complete the tuition remission request in TUportal. Select the Staff Tools Tab and navigate to the Benefits Channel. Contact Us For questions regarding Tuition Remission, call (215) 926-2270 or email benefits@temple.edu. Go back to HR ResourcesMore in Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.