Skip to content Skip to main nav Log in Search Tool Search Michigan State University Career Services Network Handshake MSU Connect Report Post-Graduation Outcomes Report Internships Where do I Start? Undergraduate Students Master’s Students Phd and Postdoctoral Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents and Families Interest Areas Interest Areas Agriculture and Environment Art, Communication and Entertainment Business and Management Education and Public Services Health Sciences Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) Social and Cultural Studies Identity/Affinity Groups International Students LGBTQA+ Students Student-Athletes Students of Color Students with Disabilities Student Veterans Learn More Create a Career Plan Connect Majors and Careers Explore Careers and Industries Gain Experience Write a Resume or Cover Letter Find Jobs or Internships Network and Connect Prepare for Interviews Research Salaries and Negotiate Offers Explore Graduate School Resources Career Outcomes Bachelor’s Degrees Master’s Degrees Events Career Fairs Career Events For Employers Contact Our Services All Staff Leadership Team Employer Relations Team Career Advisors Career Peer Advising Team Appointments Locations Handshake MSU Connect Report Post-Graduation Outcomes Report Internships Career Outcomes – Bachelor’s Degrees Great Placement Rates. Competitive Salaries. Bright Futures. All Years Class of 2021Class of 2020Class of 2019Class of 2018 Class All Academic Divisions/Schools All Academic Divisions/Schools All Programs All Programs Print Toggle charts First Destination Post-graduation outcomes of spring & summer bachelor’s degree recipients. Statistics are gathered within 6 months of graduation, per reporting standards. Top Employers Spartans begin their careers in government, healthcare, corporations and more. Starting Salary From Fortune 500s to startups — Spartan grads compete in the marketplace. Employment Locations New grads build careers in Michigan and beyond. More than half choose to stay in Michigan where they contribute to the state’s success. United States World Top Universities Spartan graduates pursue advanced degrees at some of the nation’s top institutions. Degree Types After graduation, many Spartans choose to further their education in a range of degree opportunities — from certificate to doctorate. Fields of Study MSU’s breadth of areas of study prepare graduates to further their education and make an impact in diverse fields. We don’t have enough student data to show you these results. Close 26% Bachelor's degree graduates continue education. 76% Undergraduate students complete an internship. 94% Bachelor's degree graduates work or continue education. *Data Source: Post-graduation outcomes and experiences of spring & summer bachelor’s degree recipients (2018- 2021). EMPLOYER PARTNERS AND SPONSORS Rockford Construction Magnify II Inc. PepsiCo MSU College of Law Community Mental Health Clinton, Eaton, and Ingham MSU Federal Credit Union Michigan Milk Producers Association Michigan Education Association View All Instagram Career Services Network Call us: (517) 355-9510 Contact Information Site Map Site Accessibility Terms of Service Privacy Policy Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University Powered by uConnect Posting....