Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | The Career Center Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services About Us Vision and Mission Hours of Operation Career Liaisons Staff Directory Diversity and Inclusion News Assessment, Research, and Evaluation Confidentiality FSU Career Center Disclaimer FSU Career Center Privacy Statement Employment at the Career Center Contact Us Students Undergraduate Students Build Your Foundation Certifications Graduate School Exploration/Resources Events and Workshops Jobs, Internships & Experience Plan Your Career Program & Services Resumes and Cover Letters Seminole Success Stories Virtual Services Graduate Students Programs & Services Certifications Application Documents Job Search Events and Workshops Seminole Success Stories Virtual Services Get Involved With The Career Center Maximizing Your Diversity Employers Recruit FSU Students for Jobs and Internships Attend a Career Fair or Event Build Your Brand Partner with the Career Center Plan Your Travel On-Campus Recruiting Information Sessions Faculty & Staff Career Community Resources for You Refer Someone for Services NACE Guide to Student Hiring Student Employee of the Year InternFSU Faculty/Staff Information Alumni, Family & Community Alumni Resources Community Member Services Family Member Resources Career Advisor Scholarships Support the Career Center Partner with the Career Center Orientation Presentation Resources Career Center Library Career Guides Candid Career Career Portfolio Match Major Sheets Quick Guides Search Internships Salary and Hiring Data ProfessioNole Clothing Closet Big Interview Tech Center About Us Topics Resources Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU The Career Center Toggle navigation About Us Vision and Mission Hours of Operation Career Liaisons Staff Directory Diversity and Inclusion News Assessment, Research, and Evaluation Confidentiality FSU Career Center Disclaimer FSU Career Center Privacy Statement Employment at the Career Center Contact Us Students Undergraduate Students Build Your Foundation Certifications Graduate School Exploration/Resources Events and Workshops Jobs, Internships & Experience Plan Your Career Program & Services Resumes and Cover Letters Seminole Success Stories Virtual Services Graduate Students Programs & Services Certifications Application Documents Job Search Events and Workshops Seminole Success Stories Virtual Services Get Involved With The Career Center Maximizing Your Diversity Employers Recruit FSU Students for Jobs and Internships Attend a Career Fair or Event Build Your Brand Partner with the Career Center Plan Your Travel On-Campus Recruiting Information Sessions Faculty & Staff Career Community Resources for You Refer Someone for Services NACE Guide to Student Hiring Student Employee of the Year InternFSU Faculty/Staff Information Alumni, Family & Community Alumni Resources Community Member Services Family Member Resources Career Advisor Scholarships Support the Career Center Partner with the Career Center Orientation Presentation Resources Career Center Library Career Guides Candid Career Career Portfolio Match Major Sheets Quick Guides Search Internships Salary and Hiring Data ProfessioNole Clothing Closet Big Interview Tech Center About Us Topics Resources CAREER ADVISING EXPLORE BADGES SUPPORT THE CAREER CENTER POST JOBS Home InternFSU Faculty/Staff Information Career Community Resources for You Refer Someone for Services NACE Guide to Student Hiring Student Employee of the Year InternFSU Faculty/Staff Information InternFSU Faculty/Staff Information The InternFSU program provides 100 on-campus paid experiential learning opportunities for currently enrolled full-time undergraduate, degree-seeking FSU students. "The InternFSU program helped our office to refine the expectations and job assignments for students working in the office. This refinement created a more impactful experience for the student and the division." - InternFSU Supervisor The InternFSU program will: provide a hiring framework including job description creation and advertisement support; provide a technology platform to facilitate learning objectives, supervision and mentorship support, and student recognition through transcript notation recognition; fund 50% of the student’s $13/hour wage for 120 hours spanning one semester. Through the generous support of FSU’s leadership and administration, the InternFSU program provides high impact experiential learning opportunities for students to gain professional experience on-campus complimentary to their field of study or career goals. In order to host an InternFSU, the internship site (Department/Institute/Lab/Office/Unit/Etc.) will: provide a quality on-campus experiential learning opportunity*; schedule regular, ongoing 1:1 mentoring and supervision meetings**; fund 50% of the student’s $13/hour wage for 120 hours spanning one semester. If an InternFSU student work hours exceed 120 through the split funding model, supervisors will work with their budget representative to adjust the funding source and if necessary reimburse the InternFSU Program for the unapproved excess pay prior to the start of the following semester. *An InternFSU experience cannot displace a regular University employee position or be predominantly clerical/administrative duties. **Supervisors must be full-time Florida State University faculty or staff. InternFSU students may work a maximum of 120 hours per semester. InternFSU students should not work during FSU observed holidays. Program Dates: Fall 2022: August 29 - December 2 Internship Position Criteria InternFSU experiences must be a major or career-related experiential learning opportunity, outside of the traditional classroom setting, through which students build knowledge while developing transferable skills and abilities. According to the National Association of Colleges & Employers (NACE), An internship is a form of experiential learning that integrates knowledge and theory learned in the classroom with practical application and skills development in a professional setting. Internships give students the opportunity to gain valuable applied experience and make connections in professional fields they are considering for career paths; and give employers the opportunity to guide and evaluate talent. The InternFSU program offers a diversity of experiences to ensure students in every academic discipline can identify a best-fit experiential learning opportunity on-campus. We invite position opportunities from the following engagement areas: Area Sample Experience Creative & Research Engagement Sustained creative or scholarly project developed under the direction of a faculty or staff mentor that culminates in a formal presentation, publication, performance or exhibition. Undergraduate Exhibit Curator Intern Production Intern Undergraduate Research Intern Undergraduate Choreographic Research Intern International Engagement Intercultural experience where students collaborate effectively with people from cultures different from their own in order to build the cross-cultural skills and competencies needed to live and work in the global society. Event Coordinator Intern Conversation Partner Program Intern TESOL Facilitator Intern Internship Engagement Major or career-related experience that helps students understand the professional applications, theories, ideas, principles and concepts of their academic studies or career interests. Corporate Responsibility Intern Emergency Management Intern Social Media Intern Risk Management Intern Leadership Engagement An engagement with the intentional purpose of developing and enhancing leadership knowledge and practice through direct peer leadership or leadership program administration and support. Teaching Assistant Intern Peer Advisor/Mentor Program Intern Service Engagement Direct contribution of skills and resources through engagement with the community serving others through direct service, indirect service, advocacy or research. Community Outreach Intern Volunteer Coordinator Intern Program Intern Events Coordinator Intern An InternFSU experience must have a well-developed job description including the following: Supervisor name, phone number and FSU email address Example: Brittany Armstrong, Program Assistant (850) 644-9775 Department/Institute/Lab/Office/Unit/etc. address Example: The Career Center Dunlap Success Center 100 S. Woodward Avenue Department/Institute/Lab/Office/Unit/etc. website Example: http://www.career.fsu.edu Experience title Select a descriptive title that resonates with the duties/responsibilities and function of the InternFSU experience Example: Branding Intern Experience function (select all that apply): Accounting Environmental/Sustainability Management Administration Finance Advertising, Media & Public Relations Fundraising & Event Management Architecture & Planning General Management Business Development Hospitality Community Services Human Resources Construction/Contracting Information Technology Consulting Library Science Counseling Operations/Production Customer Support Purchasing Data & Analytics Research Education/Teacher/Training Sales Engineering Writing/Editing Entrepreneurship Other: _________________ Experience description: An effective InternFSU experience description discloses the learning outcomes a student will gain. When students perceive value in the experience and understand the professional development opportunities available, your qualified applicant pool will grow. Taking the time to write a detailed experience description results in a much higher rate of views by qualified students! Tip: Include the mission of your office, description of projects, and qualifications and skills necessary for students to apply. Five Tips for an Effective Experience Description: Keep it concise! Use adjectives that accurately describe the work environment and culture (team-oriented, fast-paced, etc.). Incorporate a compelling (short) description of your Department/Institute/Lab/Office/Unit/etc. FSU students may not be familiar with your operations, so adding details builds interest and excitement about your mission and community impact. Brag on the Supervisor – students want to know who will mentor them! Example: “The intern will work under a supervisor, with the opportunity for mentorship, that has 20+ years of experience running multimodal communication strategies for Fortune 500, large non-profits, and lobbying organizations.” Provide a description of any professional development opportunities available to students. Example: “Perks of working with our office include networking with a world-class team, attending meetings with high-level leadership, your own desk, and an occasional ice cream or coffee outing (maybe even lunch!).” To help in the development of your position description, samples follow: Sample InternFSU position Student Participant Eligibility InternFSU student participants must be: A currently enrolled, full-time degree-seeking undergraduate student In good academic standing with the university Have no active student conduct sanctions Please note: Transient students, non-degree seeking students, and graduate students are not eligible. FSU undergraduate students can only participate a maximum of 3 semesters in the same experience. Posting & Recruitment The deadline to submit your Fall 2022 experiences for consideration is Sunday, June 12 at 11:59 PM. Advertisement The InternFSU program will advertise all positions via NoleNetwork for students to apply. It will use the Career Liaison model, Career Connect Newsletter and campus partners network to advertise positions to students. iNTERNFSU Hiring Process Once InternFSU students have accepted the offer, Hiring Representative can follow the InternFSU Hiring Guide to hire the students through the split funding model. New InternFSU Hires InternFSU hires will be paid through a split funding model. In order for the split funding to take effect, InternFSU students must be processed through the InternFSU Express pool. The department’s top candidate will be hired through the InternFSU Express pool using the Express Appointment Process. (Reference Appointing OPS Candidates via OPS Express training guide for instructions.) Job offers will be submitted though the InternFSU Express pool. When entering the Job Offer details, please note the following: Enter the employee’s actual start date, not the program start date. Pay Rate: $13/hour Job Code of A019 Weekly standard hours, or actual hours planning to work. Spring Semester: 8 weekly standard hours, or actual hours planning to work if not 8 Fall Semester: 8.5 weekly standard hours, or actual hours planning to work if not 8.5 InternFSU employees are paid through a split funding model with 50% InternFSU funds and 50% department funds. InternFSU Funding Code: will be provided by Program Manager Funding for the job offer should not exceed the $780 allotment from the InternFSU budget. Insert Li Pon, InternFSU Program Manager, in the job offer approval workflow. Once the job offer is approved, a candidate will be sent an email invitation to complete steps in the FSU Onboarding portal, to include initiating a background check (if required) and other pre-employment requirements. If a background check is required, it must be successfully completed before an employee can receive a formal offer and start work. The department is required to complete Form I-9 for each candidate. The department must upload the following at the Supplemental Documents step of the Onboarding process: Notarized Loyalty Oath A copy of the candidate’s social security card Deadline: All of the above processes must be completed by the HR deadline for appointments. Refer to the current Payroll Deadlines Calendar on the HR website. Current InternFSU students Current InternFSU students who an active record can be appointed via ePAF to complete the re-appointment. InternFSU Funding Code: provided by Program Manager (50%) Pay Rate: $13/hour 8 weekly standard hours (FTE: 0.25), or actual hours planning to work if not 8 Weekly standard hours, or actual hours planning to work Spring Semester: 8 weekly standard hours, or actual hours planning to work if not 8 Fall Semester: 8.5 weekly standard hours, or actual hours planning to work if not 8.5 Include Li Pon, InternFSU Program Manager in the approval workflow. Questions about the hiring process can be directed to the Office of Human Resources at (850) 644-6034. Hiring Representatives, please download the InternFSU Hiring Guide for your records. Step Deadline InternFSU online submission form opens May 23 Secure departmental permission and funding (50%) to participate in the program June 10 Deadline to submit InternFSU request to participate by Faculty/Staff June 12 Confirmation for an InternFSU spot will be sent no later than June 15 InternFSU positions available for students to apply through NoleNetwork June 15 - July 10 Receive student application packets July 12 Interview, select and offer the intern position(s) July 13 - August 10 Receive acceptance from students August 11 Notify Career Center of hire(s) August 11 Deadline to Complete Smart On-boarding Process (Hiring Rep) Refer to the current Payroll Deadlines Calendar on the HR website. InternFSU Supervisor Requirements Orientation The Career Center will hold required 45-minute virtual orientation session via Zoom for InternFSU Supervisors: TBD Program Components Supervise and mentor Intern(s) for the semester, including the following requirements: Confirm Intern(s) learning goals; Hold bi-monthly supervision meetings with their Intern(s). In these meetings discuss: project expectations and progress, setting of short-term work goals, workplace behaviors, etc.; Hold an in-person mid-semester evaluation. This presents an opportunity for both Supervisors and Intern(s) to provide structured feedback and recalibrate any project goals or deadlines for the remainder of the semester; Complete a written final evaluation and hold an in-person meeting. This written evaluation will not be shared with Interns(s), but should be used as a structured exercise to provide a framework for an in-person final evaluation. The final evaluation meeting presents an opportunity to recap successes and highlight strengths while providing feedback on areas of improvement for professional development; Complete a brief InternFSU program evaluation survey at the conclusion of the semester, Internship Agreement All InternFSU Supervisors are required to review and sign the Supervisor Agreement. New Supervisors will receive this document during Orientation. Returning Supervisors will receive the Supervisor Agreement via email. These must be signed and return to InternFSU@fsu.edu prior to the start date of the InternFSU student. Step Deadline Approve Intern(s) Smart learning goals document TBD Supervise and mentor the Intern(s) TBD Complete Mid-Semester Evaluation and discuss during a meeting TBD Hold a Final Evaluation meeting TBD Complete an InternFSU program evaluation and student evaluation survey TBD InternFSU Student Requirements Orientation The Career Center will hold a mandatory one-hour virtual orientation via Zoom for InternFSU Students during August 22-26, 2022. InternFSU students will receive an invitation link. Program Components InternFSU students will: Submit three learning goals at the beginning of the semester through the Experience Recognition Program (ERP), Transcript Notation Recognition option / or submit to their supervisor for approval if receiving academic credit; Meet with their Supervisor for bi-weekly supervision meetings. In these meetings, project expectations and progress, setting of short-term work goals, workplace behaviors, etc. should be discussed. These meetings allow the Supervisor to guide, correct, and advise Intern(s) on a regular basis; Complete a written mid-semester evaluation. The written evaluation will not be shared with the Supervisor, but Supervisors will hold an in-person mid-semester evaluation meeting. This meeting presents an opportunity for both Interns and Supervisors to provide structured feedback and recalibrate any project goals or deadlines for the remainder of the semester; Complete a written final evaluation. This written evaluation will not be shared with the Supervisor, but Supervisors will hold an in-person final evaluation meeting. This presents an opportunity for both Intern(s) and Supervisors to recap successes and highlight strengths while providing feedback on areas of improvement for continued professional development; Complete a brief InternFSU program evaluation survey at the conclusion of the semester. InternFSU Program Requirements for students Enroll in the Experience Recognition Program (ERP), Transcript Notation Recognition option or Receive Academic Credit for your InternFSU Experience To facilitate learning goals and both the mid-semester and final performance evaluation process, InternFSU student(s) must enroll in the Career Center’s Experience Recognition Program (ERP), Transcript Notation Recognition option . The exception to this requirement is receiving academic credit for the InternFSU experience from an academic department. To find out if your InternFSU experience qualifies for academic credit, please contact the appropriate academic department prior to submitting your ERP, Transcript Notation Recognition application. The Experience Recognition Program, Transcript Notation Recognition option (ERP) is an online course that facilitates eligible FSU degree-seeking students the opportunity to earn transcript notation for engaging in experiential learning opportunities: ERP is a non-credit ( 0 credit hour) bearing course, SDS 3802: Experiential Learning. Students must submit their ERP, Transcript Notation Recognition option application through their NoleNetwork account prior to the close of the official DROP/ADD period for the current semester (TBD). Once the Career Center receives your application form, it will be reviewed and students will be enrolled in the SDS 3802 course. SDS 3802 is a hidden course; students are unable to self-register for SDS 3802 though Student Central. The Career Center automatically registers students for SDS 3802 after their ERP, Transcript Notation Recognition option application has been processed and approved through NoleNetwork. SDS 3802 is graded on the S/U system and is administered through Canvas. Students cannot drop on their own, so you must communicate with the ERP Program Manager or the InternFSU staff Find more information at - http://career.fsu.edu/ERP NOTE: Earning a “S” in SDS 3802 will satisfy the requirements for the Garnet & Gold Scholar Society’s Internship Engagement Area. Earning a “S” in SDS 3802 will fulfill the Liberal Studies Curriculum requirements for a Formative Experience, which is an alternative way to fulfill one of the two required Scholarship in Practice courses. Only InternFSU students receiving academic credit are exempt from completing the ERP program. FAQs Can non-FSU entities operating on the FSU campus participate in the InternFSU program? InternFSU students are paid on a split funding model. As a result, only FSU Departments that process payroll through FSU are eligible to participate in the InternFSU program. However, if you would like to talk more about hiring FSU students for part-time or internship opportunities outside of the InternFSU program, contact the Career Center at cc-gain-experience@fsu.edu Are graduate students eligible? Graduate students are not eligible to participate in the InternFSU program. Graduate students have other opportunities for funding, detailed on the Graduate School’s Funding & Awards page. Is internship pay negotiable? InternFSU student participants must be paid $13.00 per hour. The InternFSU fund will cover $6.50 per hour, not to exceed 120 hours per semester. Please contact the InternFSU program at internfsu@fsu.edu to discuss further questions regarding pay. Can InternFSU student participants receive academic credit? Academic credit is always at the discretion of the student’s major department. The InternFSU program does not disqualify students from seeking academic credit when possible. If an InternFSU student elects to enroll in a for-credit internship course, the InternFSU program must be notified immediately at internfsu@fsu.edu What if an InternFSU student is not working out? The Supervisor should contact the InternFSU program at internfsu@fsu.edu with any concerns regarding the InternFSU student's performance and attendance. However, as with any other employee if concerning behaviors are addressed and improvements are not made, InternFSU students can be terminated as with any other employee. If you are considering this option, please contact Kelly McLaughlin (kmmclaughlin@fsu.edu) with the office of Human Resources, Employee & Labor Relations, for additional guidance. Can InternFSU students work outside of the traditional 8 AM-5 PM business hours? InternFSU students are not limited to working only during normal business hours of 8 AM-5 PM. However, the alternative work schedule should have been advertised in the experience description and disclosed during the hiring process. If an InternFSU position requires more than 120 hours during the Fall and Spring semesters, a Supervisor can elect to hire the student in a 100% department-funded OPS role for additional hours. The student should be kept in the same job code, but only the funding source should be changed. What if I have already advertised an internship through a different vehicle? Can they be included? If you have already advertised an internship, please contact the InternFSU program at internfsu@fsu.edu to discuss the possibility of including your internship in the InternFSU program. What if I have already hired an intern? Can they be included in the InternFSU program? If you have already hired an intern for , please contact the InternFSU program at internfsu@fsu.edu to discuss the possibility of including your intern in the InternFSU program. Are interns expected to work over FSU observed holidays? InternFSU students should not work over FSU observed holidays. What if my interns exceed 120 hours? After the 120 hours are reached, a Supervisor can elect to hire the InternFSU student as an OPS worker in a 100% department-funded OPS role for additional hours. However, InternFSU students would not be required to work the additional hours as a part of the InternFSU program. What hours can interns work? While not limited to traditional business operating hours of 8 AM-5 PM. This will depend on the hours advertised and agreed upon with the InternFSU supervisor and student. InternFSU students should not work during FSU observed holidays. Are international students eligible for the InternFSU program? As an F-1 student, you are automatically authorized in advance to work on-campus and would be eligible for the InternFSU program. J-1 students are NOT automatically authorized to work on campus. J1 Students must check with the program sponsor listed in box 2 of their DS-2019 form regarding whether or not they are permitted to receive authorization for on-campus employment and what the procedures and timeline are for requesting that authorization. More information is available on the Center for Global Engagement’s Employment Page. Is participation in the InternFSU program limited to the Tallahassee campus? FSU Panama City faculty, staff and students are eligible to participate in the InternFSU program. Campus units operating throughout the State of Florida are eligible for participation in the InternFSU program. Can a Supervisor have more than one InternFSU student? Yes, but there is a limit of 5 spots per position. InternFSU is limited to 100 on-campus internships. As a result, we encourage Supervisors to submit InternFSU experiences for consideration as soon as possible. Additionally, supervision of an intern requires considerable time for mentorship. It is recommended that a Supervisor highly take into account workloads and capacity for mentorship before committing to supervising more than one InternFSU student. Can a Department/Institute/Lab/Office/Unit/Etc. host more than one InternFSU student? Yes, but there is a limit of 5 spots per position. It is recommended that a Supervisor highly take into account workloads and capacity for mentorship before committing to supervising more than one InternFSU student. Can my intern start before the Program start date? Yes, they can start at the beginning of the semester. However, hours will have to be adjusted to not incur in overpayment. It is also important to note that students cannot begin work before their hiring paperwork has been processed through FSU HR. Questions? Email InternFSU@fsu.edu title-inside title-centered 2 The Career Center The Dunlap Success Center 100 South Woodward Avenue Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306-4162 Phone: 850–644–6431 Fax: 850-644-3273 Website Questions/Broken Links Diversity and Accessibility Report Bias and Discrimination The Career Center: Facebook Instagram Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn YouTube Select languageSelect LanguageEnglishAfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBengaliBosnianBulgarianCatalanCebuanoChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)CroatianCzechDanishDutchEsperantoEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekGujaratiHaitian CreoleHausaHebrewHindiHmongHungarianIcelandicIgboIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseJavaneseKannadaKhmerKoreanLaoLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseMaoriMarathiMongolianNepaliNorwegianPersianPolishPortuguesePunjabiRomanianRussianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSomaliSpanishSwahiliSwedishTamilTeluguThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddishYorubaZulu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media