Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Career Center Home About Mission & Vision Our History Advisors Staff Our Brochure Undergraduate Career Advisors Explore Careers Internships Co-ops Honors Celebration LGBTQIA Resources FAQs Pre-Graduate & Pre-Professional Advising Job Search Resources Career Tools Resume Guide Professional Attire Interviewing Policies for Students Identifying Fraudulent Positions Graduate Getting Started Our Graduate Services Make an Appointment Job Search Advice/Resources Upcoming Events Graduate Internship Program Career Fair Information & General Job Aids Resume Guide Multicultural & Diversity Resources Graduate Professional Development Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Graduate Professional Development Video Series GT Campus Closet Employers Employer Town Halls Employer Connections Team Recruiting @ GT Posting a Job On-Campus Recruiting Student Resume Books Employer Proctoring Information Sessions Corporate Partnership Program Co-op & Internship Programs Global Internship Program Hiring Non-U.S.Citizens FAQs Career & Salary Survey Reports Alumni Pre-Graduates and Pre-Professionals Employment & Job Links Alumni Career Services Events Career Alliance @ GT Career Fairs Information Sessions Workshops Building/Visitor Parking Map Career Chat Hour Series Employer Insight Series Career Fair Employers After Hours Workshop Requests Contact Hours of Operation Location Travel, Hotels, & Attractions Directory & Staff Parents CareerBuzz Job Board Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Graduate Career Fair Information & General Job Aids Career Fair Information & Job Aids On-Campus Career Fairs One of the most Important events for graduate students in their career and professional development journey is the all-majors Career Fair, held in both fall and spring. This event allows students to network with, meet, and connect with various employers seeking to hire GT graduate students for internships and full-time positions. Various programs and schools across campus hold Career Fairs, as well! Check out all the upcoming career Fairs by visiting HERE Career Fair Tips and Aids On-campus career fairs can be both simultaneously exciting and rewarding, but also stressful and overwhelming. We are here to provide resources and pro tips for making attending a career fair both rewarding, fruitful, and successful for you! Career Fair Aids Handouts How to Craft and Deliver Your Elevator Speech (Adobe PDF file) Have you ever heard of or wondered what an :”elevator speech” is? What people refer to this is how to pitch yourself succinctly in the time it takes an elevator with someone you’re networking with to reach the top and still “pitch yourself” in that short time. This can also be very useful and helpful at a career fair, as well! 8 Tips On How to STAND OUT at a Career Fair (Microsoft Word document) Have you ever wondered what the best way to leave a lasting impression and to stand out at a career fair would be? Look no further! Leading industry consultant Laura Katen guides you through the before, during, and after best practices to stand out and make the most of your career fair experience! How to Introduce Yourself at a Job Fair (Microsoft Word document) Allison Doyle from “The Balance Careers” details how to introduce yourself at a job fair and provides key takeaways to provide a successful and meaningful experience at a career fair! 15 Quick Tips for Career Fair Success (Microsoft Word document) Need a quick refresher of what can help you be successful right before a Career Fair? Dr. Randall S. Hansen is the founder of Quintessential Careers, one of the oldest and most comprehensive career development sites on the web, as well CEO of EmpoweringSites.com and in this handout helps provide ideas for success at a Career Fair. Virtual Career Fair Tips (Microsoft Word document) No matter what type of event technology is used, here are some general tips from the Georgia Tech Graduate Career Education team to successfully navigate virtual career fairs . General Job Aids Below are job search aids and resources to help your general job search and professional development journey. If you have questions or even would like feedback, please don’t hesitate to make an appointment with a peer mentor or a Graduate Career Advisor in CareerBuzz! Resume Checklist (Adobe PDF file) Take a look at what the Graduate Career Education team has compiled as a checklist for a great resume as a Georgia Tech graduate student. How to Negotiate Salary: 37 Tips You Need to Know (The Muse article) So you’ve got the job offer. But, you were hoping for something more or something different. A survey by Salary.com revealed that only 37% of people always negotiate their salaries—while an astonishing 18% never do. Even worse, 44% of respondents claim to have never brought up the subject of a raise during their performance reviews. So, whether you are in your first job or your fifth, it’s time to learn how to negotiate. And we’re here to help with this great article from “The Muse.” Virtual Job Search Resources (Microsoft Word document) We have compiled a list of virtual job search resources in response to the COVID-19 global pandemic to help you navigate through these uncertain times. Cover Letter 101 (Microsoft Word document) Casey Hampton, a Graduate Career Development Advisor put together this handout detailing why a cover letter is important, how to structure a cover letter, and what to both include and avoid with a cover letter. Leveraging Social Media and Enhancing Your Digital Presence (Adobe PDF file) A positive, robust, and strong digital presence is critical to your professional success. Graduate Career Services Assistant Director Dr. Clarence Anthony Jr. provides an activity sheet for students to work through on analyzing their current digital media and social media presence, and provides tips and ideas for elevating that---regardless of your major or stage in graduate study. Kick Your Job Search Into High Gear! (Adobe PDF file) Are you ready to self-analyze your own job search and take it to the next level? Let’s do it! With this activity packet from our team, you can work on discovering yourself, your passions, and your own future. Multiculturalism, Inclusion, and Career Development Packet (Adobe PDF file) It can be hard to enter the workforce as multicultural student---and we get that. This activity packet can provide you some different perspectives, motivations, and ideas to make your search an inclusive, rewarding, and ultimately---successful one. CV’s versus Resume’s (Microsoft Word document) Depending on the type of job, you will need to create a curriculum vitae (CV) or a resume. Both documents put your qualification in writing, but they are used for different audiences and use a different format. The Georgia Tech Graduate Career Education Team has developed this information guide as a helpful resource for developing both as a graduate student seeking to enter academia or industry. Tips to Stay Afloat in Today's Tough Job Market (Money article) This article will help you learn and implement tips to remain relevant and remain afloat and pivot and a tricky job market, such as exists post COVID-19. Strategies for Upskilling (Microsoft Word document) Adding to your portfolio of skills or the proverbial “toolbox’ of what you can do, what you can offer a company, or expanding your knowledge base is integral to your continued and long-term professional success. This piece provides a wealth of resources, websites, and ideas for you to keep growing no matter what your industry is! 6 Tips to Starting a New Job During COVID-19 (The Muse article) Now that you’ve graduated, what can you do to stand out and show your worth in the workplace? This article will help define your role in the workplace during the COVID pandemic and give you some ideas as to how to be successful! Workshop & Professional Development Recordings The Graduate Career Education Team is proud to offer “Professional Development Resources for Working Remotely” for students who are or will be working virtually in the future. This site offers workshop videos, LinkedIn course recordings, professional blogs and webinars, as well as helpful GT Career Center videos to aid you. Please click HERE for more info. Instagram LinkedIn Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Tech Career Center Bill Moore Student Success Center 219 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA. 30332 (404)894-3320 careercenter@gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login