Skip to main content MENU Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift home about us services resources events core competencies Cooperative Education Internship and UPIC Programs Michelin Career Center Data, Analytics and Salaries cooperative education co-op ambassadors the co-op concept the co-op rotation Co-op Program Stats students getting started Rotation Instructions Assignments Reports Instructions co-op and financial aid co-op FAQs Employers Interview Days Employer FAQs Academic Terms Co-op Salary Survey COVID-19 Virtual Services Cooperative Education Program Frequently Asked Questions by Our Employer Teaching Partners The following questions have been asked by companies interested in becoming teaching partners with the Co-op Program. Do you have a data report that shows typical co-op salaries? Yes. The salary survey is updated annually. How many students typically apply for co-op positions and how many companies are looking to host co-op students? Approximately more than 200 students enter the program each semester. The number of students per major varies. Do the students apply to co-op position postings or do companies pre-select students to interview for specific co-op positions? The students receive the list of companies coming to campus to interview and they research these companies by reviewing their websites and by reading reports submitted by previous co-op students. Then they decide what companies to interview with. As long as there is space on the schedule and the student meets the company’s criteria (such as a minimum GPA), he or she may interview. We are an academic program and our employers are our teaching partners. The process of interviewing is a developmental experience. These students are among the best and brightest on campus. What is the duration of the interviews that are held during Interview Days (30 minutes, 1 hour, etc.)? The individual interviews last 30 minutes. We adhere to a tight time schedule as we have more than 1000 student interviews over the three day interviewing event. You create the interview schedule when you register for Interview Days. Companies may elect to come two of the three days and they may elect to create multiple schedules depending on the number of majors or assignments they need to fill. Do the students interview with several companies during the 3 day interview event? Yes they do. It is not unusual for a student to talk with 6 to 10 companies over the three days. Do companies make offers the same day of interviews and if not what is the typical time frame to make an offer? We require that companies delay offers until after 5PM on the last day of the interviewing event. The week after the interviews is a time when students receive offers and often have second interviews. The students take that week to explore their options. We encourage students to make decisions before the deadline whenever possible so that our companies may extend other offers to other students in a timely manner. Companies may not require students to accept or decline offers earlier than the deadline set by the program. What information can we provide upfront in the interview (company overview, expectations, etc.)? You can provide any information you like. Our most successful companies provide a good detailed position description for the students to review when researching the companies. How else may I build my company brand on campus? Many companies establish relationships with the various colleges on campus. They attend student chapters of professional organization meetings or present to honors organizations. Some companies even sponsor undergraduate research projects. What is the minimum GPA for a co-op student? The minimum GPA to enter the program is 2.5, but you may establish a higher minimum GPA if you like. What engineering classes would the student have completed before a co-op position? At a minimum, engineering students must complete their General Engineering classes before entering the program. Mechanical engineering students must successfully pass ME 2010 (Statics & Dynamics) and chemical engineering students must enter the program no earlier than second semester of their sophomore year. Does the company make the offers to students or does that go through the Program’s staff? You extend the offer directly to the students and the students are required to let us know of all offers they receive. We can monitor what is going on and help encourage them to make their decisions in as timely a manner as possible. What is the process to follow once the students have been interviewed? When you decide who will receive an offer, go ahead and make it as soon as we allow you to do so and set up site interviews as time allows. It is important that the students are not asked to accept an offer prematurely. The companies that make offers on Friday and Monday are in the best position to be seriously considered by our students. Companies that come in with later offers tend not to fare as well because students have maxed out their time for second interviews or may have already made a decision. Once the student accepts an offer, it is binding and the student cannot change his/her mind to accept a later offer. What is the history of how long companies wait to extend offers? The longer you wait the less likely it is that you will find a student, but you are required to hold off extending an offer until 5PM on the Friday following Interview Days. Would anyone from the Clemson University/ Tri-County Technical College BRIDGE program be allowed to interview for a co-op position? No, students must complete their freshman year before entering our program. Bridge students are freshman at Tri-County Technical College and do not bridge to Clemson until they successfully complete 30 credit hours there. In addition, Engineering students must successfully complete General Engineering and have declared their major before entering the program, so a Bridge student may bridge to Clemson but still need to complete General Engineering courses. What are the dates for Clemson's Academic Terms? Academic Term Dates Spring Semester 2018 January 8 – May 4 Summer Session 2018 May 14 – August 17 Fall Session 2018 August 20 – December 14 Spring Session 2019 January 7 – May 3 Summer Session 2019 May 13 – August 16 Fall Session 2019 August 19 – December 13 Spring Session 2020 January 6 – May 1 Summer Session 2020 May 11 – August 14 Fall Session 2020 August 17 – December 11 Spring Session 2021 January 4 – April 30 Summer Session 2021 May 10 – August 13 Fall Session 2021 August 16 – December 10 Spring Session 2022 January 10 – May 6 Summer Session 2022 May 16 – August 19 Fall Session 2022 August 22 – December 16 Spring Session 2023 January 9 – May 5 Summer Session 2023 May 15 – August 18 Fall Session 2023 August 21 – December 15 Spring Session 2024 January 8 – May 3 Summer Session 2024 May 13 – August 16 Copyright ©2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved Center for Career and Professional Development | Third Floor, 316 Hendrix Student Center | (864) 656-6000 About Us|Privacy Policy| Email CCPD Webmaster Clemson Clemson Home ClemsonJobLink Partners Menu home about us services resources events core competencies Areas of Interest cooperative education internship and UPIC programs michelin career center data, analytics and salaries Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift