Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Careers at Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Academic Jobs Staff Jobs Student Jobs How to Apply Your Invitation Careers at Columbia You are here: Home Your Invitation Your Invitation If you are a motivated professional, passionate about your career, and want to make a difference in the world, Columbia University is the right place for you. Join our community and be at the forefront of innovation. As a global leader in higher education and research, we are committed to attracting and engaging the best minds in pursuit of greater understanding, pioneering new discoveries, and educating the next generation of leaders, thinkers, and innovators. We seek dedicated people to join in our mission. Working at Columbia will allow you to pursue your professional passions and master new skills to advance your career. We foster collaboration with like-minded peers in a stimulating, learning-laboratory environment. Knowledge and personal growth are at the heart of what we do. Columbia ensures every faculty and staff member has independence, support, and opportunities to improve yourself and your work. Together, we are changing the world. Manhattanville Campus Today, universities remain vital engines of pioneering research and new ideas for addressing society's most urgent problems. The defining spirit of Columbia University is bound to the pursuit of new knowledge and a constant reimagining of how to do things better. In Manhattanville, Columbia is reimagining what a 21st-century urban university can be. Manhattanville Campus Inaugurates The Forum Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Careers Home Diversity and Inclusion "Columbia is dedicated to increasing diversity in its workforce, its student body, and its educational programs. Achieving continued academic excellence and creating a vibrant university community require nothing less.” Lee C. Bollinger Columbia University President Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close