Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Human Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Employment Application Privacy Statement You are here Home Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Employment Application Privacy Statement About HR What We Do Office Locations Careers at Temple Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Employee Onboarding HR Resources Our Functional Areas Absence Management Workers’ Compensation Panel of Health Care Providers Employee Responsibilities Supervisor Responsibilities Family Medical Leave of Absence University Leaves of Absence Paid Parental Leave Compensation Position/Job Classification Tools Organizational Hierarchy Tools Salary Structures Benefits Administration Health Insurance Plans Full-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Part-time Employee Health Insurance Plan Health Insurance Enrollment/Changes Benefits for Retirees Domestic Partner Benefits Student Health Insurance Plan Classifications and Enrollment Process Plan Options Monthly Rates Accident Insurance Life Insurance Disability Insurance Employee Retirement Savings Plan Defined Contribution Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Contributions Plan How To Enroll Additional Benefit Options Employee Assistance Program Tuition Remission Employee Home Ownership Program Flexible Spending Accounts Employment Services Background Checks Child Abuse Certifications Certification Provisions Who Must Obtain Certifications? How Do I Get Certified? Taleo User Resources Temporary Staffing Relocation Assistance Required Workplace Postings Philadelphia Domestic Abuse Leave Philadelphia Sick Leave Philadelphia Pregnancy Leave COBRA Labor and Employee Relations Workplace Accommodation Accommodation For Employees with Disabilities Accommodation For Nursing Mothers Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Helpful Tips and References Labor and Employee Relations Forms Learning and Development Signature Programs Departmental Programs Training Registration New Hire Orientation Performance Development System Payroll Management Due Dates Timekeeping Taxes and Deductions Required Tax Deductions Foreign National Taxation City Wage Tax Refund Payroll and Tax Forms Employment and Income Verification Direct Deposit Advice Total Wellness Program Information Challenges Screenings and Virtual Programs Wellness Resources Temple Employee Relief Fund Outstanding Owls - New Staff Recognition Program Quick Links At Temple University we are committed to maintaining the accuracy, confidentiality and security of your personal information. This privacy statement describes the personal information that Temple University collects from or about you, and how we use and to whom we disclose that information. If your relationship with the university ends, we will continue to handle your data in accordance with this statement. What personal information do we collect? We collect and maintain different types of personal information about those individuals who seek to be or are employed by Temple University. Personal information may include name, home address, telephone, personal email address, date of birth and employee identification number; personal information contained in résumés and/or applications; references and interview notes; photographs and video; letters of offer and acceptance of employment; mandatory policy acknowledgement sign-off sheets; and wage information. As a general rule, Temple University collects personal information directly from you. In some instances Temple University may utilize the services of third parties in our business and may also receive personal information collected by those third parties in the course of the performance of their services for us or otherwise. Where this is the case, we will take reasonable steps to ensure that such third parties have represented to us that they have the right to disclose your personal information to Temple University. Where permitted or required by applicable law or regulatory requirements, we may collect information about you without your knowledge or consent. Why do we collect personal information? The personal information collected is used and disclosed for our business purposes, including establishing, managing or terminating your employment relationship with Temple University. Such uses include determining eligibility for initial employment, including the verification of references and qualifications; conducting background investigations; administering pay; establishing training and/or development requirements; assessing qualifications for a particular job or task; gathering evidence for disciplinary action, or termination; complying with applicable labor or employment statutes; compiling directories; ensuring the security of company-held information; and such other purposes as are reasonably required by Temple University. When do we disclose your personal information? We may share your personal information with our employees, contractors, consultants and other parties who require such information to assist us with establishing, managing or terminating our employment relationship with you, including: parties that provide products or services to us or on our behalf and parties that collaborate with us in the provision of products or services to you. In some instances, such parties may also provide certain information technology services to us so that we may operate our business. We may share personal information with such parties, and as result, your personal information may be collected, used, processed, stored or disclosed. When we share personal information with such parties we typically require that they only use or disclose such personal information in a manner consistent with the use and disclosure provisions of this privacy statement. Further, your personal information may be disclosed as permitted or required by applicable law or regulatory requirements. In such a case, we will endeavor to not disclose more personal information than is required under the circumstances. to comply with valid legal processes such as search warrants, subpoenas or court orders. as part of Temple University's regular reporting activities. to protect the rights and property of Temple University. during emergency situations or where necessary to protect the safety of a person or group of persons. where the personal information is publicly available. with your consent where such consent is required by law. How is your personal information protected? Temple University restricts access to your personal information to persons who need access to it in order to do their jobs or to provide products and services to you. We train our workforce in the proper handling of personal information. Temple University endeavors to maintain physical, technical and procedural safeguards that are appropriate to the sensitivity of the personal information in question. These safeguards are designed to protect your personal information from loss and unauthorized access, copying, use, modification or disclosure. How long is your personal information retained? Except as otherwise permitted or required by applicable law or regulatory requirements, Temple University endeavors to retain your personal information only for as long as it believes is necessary to fulfill the purposes for which the personal information was collected (including for the purpose of meeting any legal, accounting or other reporting requirements or obligations). We may, instead of destroying or erasing your personal information, make it anonymous such that it cannot be associated with or tracked back to you. Access to your personal information You can ask to see the personal information that we hold about you. If you want to review, verify or correct your personal information, please contact the office of our privacy officer using the contact information set out below. Please note that any such communication must be in writing. When requesting access to your personal information, please note that we may request specific information from you to enable us to confirm your identity and right to access, as well as to search for and provide you with the personal information that we hold about you. We may charge you a fee to access your personal information; however, we will advise you of any fee in advance. Your right to access the personal information that we hold about you is not absolute. There are instances where applicable law or regulatory requirements allow or require us to refuse to provide some or all of the personal information that we hold about you. In addition, the personal information may have been destroyed, erased or made anonymous in accordance with our record retention obligations and practices. In the event that we cannot provide you with access to your personal information, we will endeavor to inform you of the reasons why, subject to any legal or regulatory restrictions. Inquiries or concerns? If you have any questions about this privacy statement or concerns about how we manage your personal information, please contact the office of the university’s privacy officer by telephone, in writing or by e-mail. We will endeavor to answer your questions and advise you of any steps taken to address the issues raised by you. University privacy officer We have appointed a university privacy officer to oversee compliance with this privacy statement. The contact information for our privacy officer is as follows. Telephone: 215-204-8000 Email address: Privacyofficer@temple.edu Revisions to this Privacy Statement Temple University may from time to time make changes to this privacy statement to reflect changes in its legal or regulatory obligations or in the manner in which we deal with your personal information. We will communicate any revised version of this privacy statement. Any changes to this privacy statement will be effective from the time they are communicated, provided that any change that relates to why we collect, use or disclose your personal information will not apply to you, where your consent is required to such collection, use or disclosure, until we have obtained your consent to such change. This privacy statement was last reviewed on February 15, 2016. Go back to Careers at TempleMore in Search and Apply for Jobs Applicant Tips Employment Application Privacy Statement Employing Foreign Nationals Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Human Resources Mitten Hall - Lower Level 1913 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Search and Apply For Jobs Employee Assistance Program Workplace Accommodation Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct Self Service Banner Office Locations Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.