Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Job Search Prep Professional Clothing Closet The Professional House of Garments, aka The P.H.O.G., provides a way for students to access free professional and business casual attire appropriate for career fairs, interviews, and the workplace. Visit The P.H.O.G. for suits, blazers, skirts, button-down shirts, and more to help you look your best and make a lasting positive impression as you enter the professional world. Location The professional clothing closet is available to any KU student Monday-Friday, 8am-5pm. Please check in at the front desk in 206 Summerfield Hall. Clothing Donations Acceptable items include full suits, jackets/blazers, professional shirts, slacks, skirts, professional dresses, ties, briefcases, portfolios and dress shoes in good condition. Students prefer suits/jackets in navy, dark blue, gray or black. Donations may be dropped off at Summerfield Hall, Room 206, Monday-Friday, 8am-5pm. Items we cannot accept are tuxedos/formal wear, casual slacks (chinos, those with elastic waists), sporting attire, polo shirts, denim, or jewelry. Career Opportunities Fund The Career Opportunities Fund accepts donations to support The P.H.O.G. clothing closet and other career initiatives for KU students. Free Food Resource Location: 4th floor, Kansas Union. All KU students, faculty, staff, and community members are welcome to free meals, ingredients, snacks, and produce. Frequently Asked Questions How many items can I have from The P.H.O.G.? Click to expand You are welcome to take as many items as you need from The P.H.O.G. Do I have to return the items I take? Click to expand No, you are welcome to keep the items you select from The P.H.O.G. I heard you are only allowed to use The P.H.O.G. for interviews. Is this true? Click to expand No, you are welcome to use The P.H.O.G. for any career-related obligation, including networking events, interviews, starting a new job, career fairs, and more. Who is eligible to use The P.H.O.G.? Click to expand All current KU students have access to The P.H.O.G., regardless of degree level or major. Additionally alumni who have graduated within the past 6 months may also use The P.H.O.G. I'm not sure how to put together a professional-looking outfit. Can the UCC help me? Click to expand Yes. You can either check out our resources on professional image, or make an appointment with one of our Career Coaches for additional help. How much does it cost to use The P.H.O.G.? Click to expand Current KU students and those who have graduate within the past 6 months can utilize The P.H.O.G. for free! Are donations tax deductible? Click to expand Yes, you may ask for a receipt when you drop off donations in Summerfield Hall, room 206. Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.