Academic and Student Affairs Think and Do The Extraordinary Support Student Success Career Development Center MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content About Us About Us Appointments Our Team Career Ambassadors Interview Locations Wolfpack Styled Professional Clothing Closet For Alumni For Faculty and Staff Explore Careers Explore Careers Career Identity Program Career Identity Advocate 4 Year Career Plan Career Courses and Podcast Career Assessments Gain Experience Gain Experience Career Guide Resume Examples Internship and Job Search Salary Information Career Fairs List of Events Virtual Career Fair Resources How to Prepare for a Fair What to Wear PackPros Pre-Professional Services Students Moving Forward Co-op Co-op Overview Co-op Information Session Steps to Co-op Once Hired – Your Next Steps Important Dates FAQ Rural Works! About Rural Works! Students Featured Internships SECU Public Fellows Internship Program Employers Fast Facts FAQs Resources For Employers Overview Visibility on Campus Employer Policies Virtual Career Fair Resources Career Fairs and Events Co-op Employers Corporate Partners Plan Your Visit Video Tutorials Use ePACK Gain Experience Your college degree may open up doors, but you need more than class credits to get the career you want. In today’s competitive workforce, preparation and training are more important than ever. The Career Development Center offers resources and advising at every stage of your career planning, whether you’re looking to meet potential employers, brush up on your interview skills or get hands-on experience through an internship. Get started Ready to get out of the classroom and gain some real-world experience? Download our Career Guide (PDF) for sample resumes and cover letters, interview tips, and upcoming dates for career fairs and events. View our four-year plan, a year-by-year roadmap for finding the right career. Enroll in a career course to get help with career planning and decision-making in a structured classroom setting. Search jobs and internships now ePACK is an online system that gives you instant access to internship and job postings. Log in to ePACK or create an account Internship and Job Search To succeed in your internship or job search, you must prepare, participate and persist. From updating your LinkedIn profile to using high-impact search strategies, we’ll help you get ready. Learn more Career Fairs and Events Getting in front of the right people is a vital way to advance your job search. Career fairs give you the chance to meet your ideal employers — many of them NC State graduates themselves. Learn more Career Guide The 2021-2022 Career Guide is here! Looking for tips on writing a resume, attending career fairs, and preparing for interviews? Look no further than the Career Development Center’s Career Guide! This is your tool to Students Moving Forward The NC State University Career Development Center values the career development of every student. Students Moving Forward (SMF) is an independent career-focused program created by two NC State University staff members, and specifically designed for Career Development Center 2100 Pullen Hall 201 Dan Allen Drive Campus Box 7303 Raleigh, NC 27695-7303 career-development@ncsu.edu 919.515.2396 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Email About Us Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback Site Index Division of Academic and Student Affairs About Find Help on Campus Departments Giving Search for: © 2022 Career Development Center | Log in