Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Job Search Prep Online Image Your online presence can be a valuable part of your job search. Employers look online to recruit new hires and gather information about potential employees, and job seekers can expand their professional network by using sites like LinkedIn, Facebook, and Twitter. With that in mind, it's important to take the time to make sure your online image is professional. Do some self-editing Delete inactive accounts you no longer use and remove any potentially offensive or controversial content. Ask your connections to remove any inappropriate content about you from their sites and request that they refrain from posting similar content in the future. Revisit your account and privacy settings; limit who can find you and what others can see. Build your personal brand Brainstorm unique talents, qualities, knowledge, and accomplishments that will make you an asset to potential employers. Develop a strategy to promote your brand to your professional audience. Establish a presence on sites where you know professionals in your field tend to spend time. Complete a profile on LinkedIn; Follow these helpful guides on how to build a complete profile (pdf) and how to network effectively (pdf) on the site. Utilize other social media sites and blogs to further develop and promote your brand. Google search your name regularly and set up Google alerts for your name and contact information to stay up to date on what employers might find when they search for you online. Featured Resources Networking Building your LinkedIn (pdf) Networking on Linkedin (pdf) Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.