Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Career Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Us People KU Employment Data Students Select to follow link Student Resources Graduate Students Beyond KU Career Exploration Select to follow link Careers Interest Areas KU Majors Career Communities Select to follow link Artists, Designers, & Performers Communicators and Leaders Educators and Helping Professionals International Professionals & Public Servants Scientists and Technologists Health Professionals Career Coaching Career Courses Job Search Prep Select to follow link Cover Letters Curricula Vitae Employer Research Informational Interviewing Interviewing Networking Online Image Professional Clothing Closet Professional Image Resumes Salary Negotiation Jobs & Internships Select to follow link Full-Time Part-Time Internships Virtual Job and Internship Search Resources Government and Non-Profit Peace Corps Working Abroad Experiential Learning Select to follow link Certificate Programs Volunteering Faculty/Staff Alumni Family Employers Events Career Exploration by Careers Interest Areas KU Majors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Career Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Faculty/Staff The University Career Center offers a number of services and resources that can assist and support the important work that you do with students. We want to partner with you to help ensure the success of all students and ask you to refer them to the UCC. For additional information, please contact us: University Career Center 206 Summerfield Hall 785-864-3624 ucc@ku.edu Featured Resources Workshop Request Internship Newsletter Hire Jayhawks KU Career Partners Program Frequently Asked Questions Where can students find jobs and internships specifically for KU students? Click to expand Hire Jayhawks is a career management system that houses part-time, full-time, and internship opportunities, specifically for KU students. All students have access for free and can log in using their alphanumeric KU online ID and password. If faculty or staff members would like access to Hire Jayhawks, they can request access by completing this brief form. Additional job and internship resources can be find on our part-time jobs, full-time jobs, and internships webpages. How can students find work or internship opportunities abroad? Click to expand Students can find information about working or interning abroad on our Working Abroad resources and the international listings located on our full-time jobs webpage. Additionally, those interested in abroad opportunities should check out My World Abroad and GoinGlobal. Both of these resources are free to KU students. University Career Center staff members also teach two courses with a global focus: LA&S 480 Preparing for International Careers and LA&S 485 Global Career Management. What resources are available to help students build a resume or CV? Click to expand Several resources are available on the resumes and curriculum vitae (CVs) webpages to assist students in writing resumes and curriculum vitae. What resources are available to help students negotiate salary? Click to expand Several helpful salary negotiation and cost of living tools can be found on our Salary Negotiation webpage, which also includes helpful insight on how to navigate the negotiation process. How can students build their personal brand and strengthen their online image? Click to expand Several resources are available to help students build a personal brand and strengthen their online image. Information on cleaning up online material; building a professional brand; and maintaining a strong, professional image is available on our online image webpage. What are some resources to help me write reference letters for students? Click to expand Information on writing reference letters from the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) Suggested Guidelines for Reference Givers Sample Faculty Member Written Reference Letter Legal Issues: Writing a Reference Letter What resources are available to help students with interviewing? Click to expand Our interviewing webpage has several resources to assist students with the interviewing process. Students may be especially interested in the Preparing for Job Interviews guide and the Impress mock interview tool -- a free online resource in which students can practice interviewing with a webcam and submit their practice for feedback by a career coach if they choose. What career resources are available for specific student populations? Click to expand We have specific career development resources and information on our website for the following populations: LGBTQ students, student veterans, students with disabilities, international students, women, and alumni. Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 ucc@ku.edu 785-864-3624 facebook instagram twitter youtube pinterest People Career Coaching Contact Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.