Skip to main content Report a Digital Access Issue Search form Search Go CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. open or close Quick Links Heel Life Give Contact Us Tickets Hours Employment toggle menu Home About Board of Directors Building Maps Frequently Asked Questions Hours of Operation Policies Staff In the Union Welcome Desk Carolina Union Annual Report for 2020-2021 Services Departments Administration Communications & Creative Services Event Services Reservations Venues Services and Pricing Payment Methods Policies Student Life & Leadership Fraternity & Sorority Life News & Events Calendar News Today at the Union Union Events Tickets Carolina from Home Get Involved Carolina Excellence Give Join a Student Organization Student Government Resources No flash player has been set up. Please select a player to play Flash videos. Get Involved Reserve Carolina Services Carolina Union The Carolina Union and departments are open! Fall Building Hours: We invite you to come to the Union to study, eat, or relax. Masks are required indoors, except while dining. Mon-Fri: 7:30 am-1 am Sat: 9 am-1am Sun: 11 am-1am Visit our hours page for office schedules. The Carolina Union is a COVID-19 testing site for asymptomatic students, faculty and staff. For testing, enter by our Art Gallery along the breezeway near Davis Library. Updated times for testing Normal process for CTTP testing, utilizing our CTTP lab for processing and HallPass for appointments and test results are open. Students, faculty and staff can participate in the asymptomatic testing. Hours at the Carolina Union will be: Mondays and Wednesdays from 9 am-5 pm Hours at the Carolina Union will be: Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7am-5 pm Hours at the Carolina Union will be: Fridays from 9 am-2 pm Saturdays and Sundays: Closed Visit carolinatogether.unc.edu for updates and information about UNC. Resources of support for the UNC community: Students, including graduate and professional students and post-doctoral students may contact the Dean of Students team, the Office for Diversity and Inclusion, Counseling and Psychological Services or Student Wellness. CAPS also facilitates the Multicultural Health Program, including counseling and events for the BIPOC community. Faculty and staff should reach out to the Employee Assistance Program or access any of these resources for the BIPOC community. Enjoy LDOC 2022 With Many Planned Festivities Ready to celebrate the end to the academic year? Carolina will once again be abuzz with festivities for Last Day of Classes (LDOC) celebrations. Check out the full schedule of events! Employee Wellness Day Employee Wellness Day will celebrate the health and wellbeing of workers. The is will take place Friday March 18, 2022. Many events and free food. More News CUBOD Chair Statement in Light of Recent Events Celebrate Latinx Heritage Month Student leaders needed for Carolina Union Board of Directors position FallFest is canceled for 2021 Taking time to reflect Heel Life Opportunity Board Today in the Union There are currently no scheduled events. View Calendar Twitter Facebook Youtube Instagram Contact Us About the Union Mission & History Staff Policies Contact Us 3103 FPG Student Union Corner of South & Raleigh Road 209 South Road, CB # 5210 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-5210 Carolina Union Guest Services (919) 962-2285 Hearing Impaired T-711 (NC Relay) Meetings & Events Reserve at the Union Calendar Tickets Partners Alpine Bagels APPLES Carolina Student Legal Services UNC Student Television WXYC 89.3 UNC Student Radio Wendy's Libraries Maps Search UNC UNC Calendar UNC Departments