Skip to Main Content Carolina Together Toggle Menu Students & Families COVID-19 Community Standards On Campus Faculty & Staff COVID-19 Community Standards On Campus Testing and Wellness COVID-19 Community Standards COVID-19 Vaccine Carolina Together Testing Program Quarantine and Isolation Search Students & Families COVID-19 Community Standards On Campus Faculty & Staff COVID-19 Community Standards On Campus Testing and Wellness COVID-19 Community Standards COVID-19 Vaccine Carolina Together Testing Program Quarantine and Isolation Search Close Main Navigation Menu Carolina Together Updated May 4, 2022 As we come to the end of the spring semester, we have decided to close the Carolina Together Testing Program. The number of students seeking COVID-19 tests at the Carolina Union has dropped as self-test kits are widely available, and we will have fewer students on campus this summer than we do now. Starting May 9, enrolled students should contact Campus Health if they wish to be tested or are symptomatic. Campus Health will be available open Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. for in-person visits. Faculty and staff who wish to be tested or are symptomatic over the summer should contact their physician’s office. Please visit the Environment, Health and Safety website for specific COVID-19 guidance for employees. Latest Updates May 4, 2022 COVID-19 Update: Summer testing plans As we end the spring semester, we will be closing the Carolina Testing Together Program. Starting May 9, enrolled students should contact Campus Health for testing or if they are symptomatic. Apr 6, 2022 Carolina Together COVID-19 dashboard changes Today we will make changes to the Carolina Together COVID-19 dashboard. The dashboard will be replaced with links to external resources, including federal, state and county dashboards, which are now the best indicators of cases in our local community. It will also ensure our campus community has access to the most comprehensive up-to-date data. Mar 10, 2022 COVID-19 Update: Spring break and testing update As we approach spring break, we wanted to provide information about updated testing center hours and information about our testing program. Mar 2, 2022 Mask Requirement and Testing Changes Beginning March 14, we will change the vendor that processes our Carolina Together testing samples from the on-campus Carolina Together testing lab to a third party, Radeas Labs. We are working very closely with the Radeas team to ensure that there is still a smooth and efficient process in place. Quick Links Messages Cluster Notifications Mobile Friendly Dashboard Student, Faculty and Staff Support Dashboard Committees Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 Carolina Together