Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Programs Technology & Human Rights Transitional Justice Reimagining Rights & Responsibilities Nonviolent Action Lab Racial Justice Human Rights Defenders COVID-19 & Human Rights Special Initiatives Our Work Research Justice Matters Podcast Opportunities Student Opportunities Fellowship Opportunities Events About People Support Our Work History & Approach Site Search Search Our Mission Building a more just, peaceful future through human rights research, teaching, and collaboration The Carr Center for Human Rights Policy serves as the hub of the Harvard Kennedy School’s research, teaching, and training in the human rights domain. The center embraces a dual mission: to educate students and the next generation of leaders from around the world in human rights policy and practice; and to convene and provide policy-relevant knowledge to international organizations, governments, policymakers, and businesses. News and Announcements Holding Together: The Hijacking of Rights in America and How to Reclaim Them for Everyone June 1, 2022 An overwhelming majority of Americans agree that rights are essential to their freedom, and that rights today are severely threatened. The promise of rights has been reimagined at pivotal moments in American history — can today become another time of transformation? ... Read more about Holding Together: The Hijacking of Rights in America and How to Reclaim Them for Everyone Police Reform in the Americas May 31, 2022 This month on Justice Matters, Dr. Yanilda María González discusses authoritarianism and policing, civil society's role in holding politicians and police accountable, and how to facilitate more representative dialogues around police reform. ... Read more about Police Reform in the Americas Education and Gender Equality in South Africa and Beyond April 29, 2022 This month on Justice Matters, Dr. Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka discusses her work fighting for the rights of women and children throughout her career in South Africa and the United Nations. ... Read more about Education and Gender Equality in South Africa and Beyond 1 of 62 »See all announcements Latest Publications A More Equal Future? Political Equality, Discrimination, and Machine Learning Citation: Joshua Simons and Eli Frankel. 5/3/2022. “A More Equal Future? Political Equality, Discrimination, and Machine Learning.” Technology and Democracy Discussion Paper Series. Publisher's Version Download Citation BibTex RTF Tagged XML RIS Abstract: Machine learning is everywhere. AI-evangelists promise that data-driven decision-making will not only boost organizational efficiency, it will also help make organizations fairer and advance social justice. Yet the effects of machine learning on social justice, human rights, and democracy will depend not on the technology itself, but on human choices about how to design and deploy it. Among the most important is whether and how to ensure systems do not reproduce and entrench pervasive patterns of inequality. The authors argue that we need radical civil rights reforms to regulate AI in the digital age, and must return to the roots of civil rights. This paper is adapted from Josh Simons's forthcoming book, Algorithms for the People: Democracy in the Age of AI, published by Princeton University Press this Fall. Read the paper. author/date: Joshua Simons et al. | May 3 2022 teaser text: Machine learning is everywhere. Yet the effects of machine learning on social justice, human rights, and democracy will depend not on the technology itself, but on human choices about how to design and deploy it.Last updated on 05/03/2022 RTF RIS How AI Fails Us Citation: Divya Siddarth, Daron Acemoglu, Danielle Allen, Kate Crawford, James Evans, Michael Jordan, and E. Glen Weyl. 4/14/2022. “How AI Fails Us.” Technology and Democracy Discussion Paper Series. Publisher's Version Download Citation BibTex RTF Tagged XML RIS Abstract: The dominant vision of artificial intelligence imagines a future of large-scale autonomous systems outperforming humans in an increasing range of felds. This “actually existing AI” vision misconstrues intelligence as autonomous rather than social and relational. It is both unproductive and dangerous, optimizing for artificial metrics of human replication rather than for systemic augmentation, and tending to concentrate power, resources, and decision-making in an engineering elite. Alternative visions based on participating in and augmenting human creativity and cooperation have a long history and underlie many celebrated digital technologies such as personal computers and the internet. Researchers and funders should redirect focus from centralized autonomous general intelligence to a plurality of established and emerging approaches that extend cooperative and augmentative traditions as seen in successes such as Taiwan’s digital democracy project and collective intelligence platforms like Wikipedia. Read the paper. author/date: Divya Siddarth et al. | Apr 14 2022 teaser text: The dominant vision of artificial intelligence imagines a future of large-scale autonomous systems outperforming humans in an increasing range of fields — but this view is both unproductive and dangerous.Last updated on 04/14/2022 RTF RIS Building Human Rights into Intelligent-Community Design: Beyond Procurement Citation: Phil Dawson, Faun Rice, and Maya Watson. 2/25/2022. “Building Human Rights into Intelligent-Community Design: Beyond Procurement.” Carr Center Discussion Paper Series. See full text. Download Citation BibTex RTF Tagged XML RIS Abstract: Cities have emerged as test beds for digital innovation. Data-collecting devices, such as sensors and cameras, have enabled fine-grained monitoring of public services including urban transit, energy distribution, and waste management, yielding tremendous potential for improvements in efficiency and sustainability. At the same, there is a rising public awareness that without clear guidelines or sufficient safeguards, data collection and use in both public and private spaces can lead to negative impacts on a broad spectrum of human rights and freedoms. In order to productively move forward with intelligent-community projects and design them to meet their full potential in serving the public interest, a consideration of rights and risks is essential. Read the paper. author/date: Phil Dawson et al. | Feb 25 2022 teaser text: Municipalities have an opportunity to lead in responsible technology adoption by embracing thorough and innovative human rights-based approaches to intelligent-community design. RTF RIS 1 of 72 »See all publications Featured Videos Social Justice Leaders Series led by Dr. Keisha N. Blain Social Justice Leaders Series led by Dr. Keisha N. Blain Civil Resistance: What Everyone Needs to Know by Erica Chenoweth Civil Resistance: What Everyone Needs to Know by Erica Chenoweth The Birth of a Nation: The Impact of the Media on Racial Hate The Birth of a Nation: The Impact of the Media on Racial Hate 1 of 40 » “The Carr Center is building a bridge between ideas on human rights and the practice on the ground. Right now we are at a critical juncture. The pace of technological change and the rise of authoritarian governments are both examples of serious challenges to the flourishing of individual rights. It’s crucial that Harvard and the Kennedy School continue to be a major influence in keeping human rights ideals alive. The Carr Center is a focal point for this important task.” - Mathias Risse 79 JFK Street Cambridge Massachusetts 02138 617.495.5819 Follow Us Sign up for our Mailing List Subscribe Support Our Work Image attribution Privacy 94ad6873bac9dae0c5124691f693ffeb 4d70ec50ef64c89987c91c0ba941eb87 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement