Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Art, Ceramics Concentration, M.F.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Master of Fine Arts in Art (60 UNITS) The Master of Fine Arts in Art features a rigorous studio program for the serious, responsible and talented student. The curriculum and faculty challenge students to focus on the goal of becoming professional artists. The M.F.A. program provides in-depth study within an approved study plan in the following areas of concentration: ceramics, crafts (including jewelry, woodworking and metalsmithing), creative photography and experimental media, drawing and painting (including printmaking), exhibition design, glass, graphic design, illustration and sculpture. Admission Requirements Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants must meet the following: Classified Standing Baccalaureate degree in art with the same concentration as the graduate degree objective from an accredited institution, or 24 upper-division units in art, 18 of which must be in the concentration completed with a “B” (3.0) or better in all courses. Applicants are advised that most upper-division courses require lower-division prerequisites; pass the semianual comprehensive portfolio review. The comprehensive portfolio review is an evaluation of the candidate by a committee comprising faculty teaching in the area of concentration. The committee reviews the student’s creative work, statement of purpose, academic and other relevant qualifications. Procedures, dates and appointment times are available through the Art Department Graduate Office. If the student’s portfolio is not adequate, the applicant may still be recommended for conditionally classified standing by the faculty comprehensive review committee. However, the comprehensive portfolio review must be repeated; form a graduate committee; and develop an approved study plan. Conditionally classified standing Conditionally classified students may enroll in graduate courses with the exception of ART 500A , ART 500B ; ART 511 , ART 512 , ART 597 ; and ART 598 . The comprehensive portfolio review must be repeated and passed to be recommended for classification. Application Deadlines The Art Department also has a supplemental application process. See fullerton.edu/arts/art for further information. Study Plan The study plan must be completed with a “C” (2.0) or better in a courses, an overall “B” (3.0) average or better and “B” (3.0) or better in the concentration. Every graduate student is required to demonstrate writing ability commensurate with the baccalaureate. Two graduate seminars are certified to fulfill this university requirement. The 60-unit study plan is distributed as follows: Areas (60 units total) Theory, Criticism: ART 500A , ART 500B (6) Art History (9) Studio Area of Concentration (24) Studio Electives in Art (12) Capstone Experience Independent Study - Research (3) Studio Project (6) Master of Fine Arts Project The M.F.A. project exhibition constitutes a professional one-person art exhibit. It is installed in one of the department’s graduate galleries and announced for public view by the student as the final phase of the M.F.A. program requirements. Total (60 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).