Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home The University of Kansas Home The University of Kansas myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay KU Directory 2022-23 Academic Catalog Search catalog Submit search Catalog Home KU Core Regulations All Courses Resources State Authorization Catalog Archives Print Options 2022-23 Edition Architecture & Design Business Education and Human Sciences Engineering Health Professions Journalism & Mass Communications Law Liberal Arts & Sciences --Arts (in CLAS) --Public Affairs Administration (in CLAS) Medical Center Campus Interdisciplinary Studies Medicine (M.D. & Graduate Degrees) Music Nursing Pharmacy Professional Studies Social Welfare Office of Graduate Studies, Lawrence and Edwards Campus Students Office of Graduate Studies, Medical Center Campus Students Office of Academic Success Office of International Affairs ROTC Pre-Majors All Schools and Programs All Schools and Programs All academic units can be found on the left. If you are unsure how to find your major, start with Liberal Arts & Sciences. Graduation requirements and regulations for every academic program are provided in this catalog. Degree requirements and course descriptions are subject to change. In most cases, you will use the catalog of the year you entered KU (see your advisor for details). Other years’ catalogs» The University of Kansas is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org), a regional accreditation agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. In addition, certain Lawrence and Medical Center campus programs have specialized accreditation. Related Links Admissions Advising Disability Resources Edwards Campus Enroll & Pay Financial Aid Graduate Studies Honors Program Housing International Students Medical Center Online Courses Policies Registrar Safety Scholarships Textbooks Tuition & fees Tutoring Writing Center Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS | Maps The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Back to top Close this window Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. 2021-22 Entire Catalog All pages in the Academic Catalog