Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in U.S. Latino/a Studies Program Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Undergraduate Minor Contact Information Flor Romero-De-Slowing, Academic Adviser II 3230 Pearson Hall usls.las.iastate.edu fslowing@iastate.edu 515-294-8988 Alissa M. Whitmore, Academic Adviser II 3220 Pearson Hall whitmore@iastate.edu 515-294-7570 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Program: U.S. Latino/a Studies Latinos/as/x are the largest and fastest growing culturally diverse population in the United States, representing dynamic and thriving American realities. U.S. Latino/a Studies at Iowa State University is a cross-disciplinary, coalition-building program that offers well-structured and creative coursework to students interested in the arts, cultures, economies, histories, politics, religions, and literatures of Latino/a/x communities throughout the United States. It facilitates the study of a vast array of communities and individuals with roots in the Caribbean and Latin America, and long-established U.S. citizen communities such as Chicanos/as, Mexican Americans, Tejanos, Californios, Cuban-Americans, Dominican-Americans, and Puerto Ricans on the island and on the mainland. The program aims to serve as a hub that connects classes, service and outreach opportunities across colleges, schools, and departments. Consequently, students can discover a stimulating field of critical and academic research, engage in an exciting platform on which to link different fields of study, and become part of outreach/community networks in which they will grow to become outstanding, conscientious leaders in their respective careers. The Program in U.S. Latino/a Studies is well suited to careers in Education, Psychology, History, Sociology, Business, Journalism, Spanish Language and Cultures, Women’s and Gender Studies, and Agriculture. A U.S. Latino/a Studies minor, or a double major with a Latino/a Studies track in Interdisciplinary Studies, strengthens student profiles as they compete for jobs on the global market because they have attained an in-depth experience of local and global experiences of Latin America and the Caribbean, as well as a sophisticated understanding of diversity and inclusion. The US LS Program offers course work that meets the ISU U.S. Diversity requirement and also offers a 15 credit Minor. Interdisciplinary Studies Major, Track in U.S. Latino/a Studies In addition to meeting the general requirements for the Interdisciplinary Studies major, students wishing to complete a track in U.S. Latino/a Studies must complete a minimum of 36 credits in the area of U.S. Latino/a Studies including US LS 211 (Introduction to U.S. Latino/a Studies) and an experiential learning course (US LS 325 or US LS 499). At least 15 of the 36 credits must be in courses numbered 300 and above and 6 credit hours must be earned at the 400-level. Students must also meet the upper-level communication proficiency requirement by taking English 302 or 314. Students can work with the US LS program director and an Interdisciplinary Studies advisor to explore options within this individualized major program. Required Courses (36 credits) US LS 211 Introduction to U.S. Latino/a Studies 3 One Experiential Learning course in US LS US LS 325 Culture and Community: Iowa and Midwest Latino/as 3 or US LS 499 Internship in US Latino/a Studies Two of the following Historical Foundations of US LS 6 US LS 372 Latina/o History HIST 340 History of Latin America I HIST 341 History of Latin America II Two of the following Social Science Foundations of US LS 6 US LS 343 Latin American Government and Politics US LS 347 U.S. Latino/a Psychology US LS 473 Civil Rights and Ethnic Power ANTHR 323 Topics in Latin American Anthropology SOC 332 The Latino/Latina Experience in U.S. Society SPAN 322 Latin American Civilization SPAN 324 Latin America Today Two of the following Literature and Language in US LS 6 US LS 342 Religion and U.S. Latino/a Literature ENGL 344 U.S. Latino/a Literature SPAN 304 Spanish for Global Professionals SPAN 445 Seminar on the Literatures and Cultures of Latin America And twelve additional credits from any US LS, US LS cross-listed, or other course listed above 12 Total Credits 36 Notes The list of acceptable courses may include courses not currently listed. Contact the Director of US Latino/a Studies for information on eligible courses. The student must have an average grade of C in courses applied to the major. Fulfillment of the world language requirement with Spanish is strongly recommended, but not required. Students pursuing multiple majors can apply up to nine (9) credits of approved Spanish courses (304, 322, 324,445) to both the US LS and their other major. U.S. Latino/a Studies Minor The minor in US Latino/a Studies requires a minimum of 15 credit hours including US LS 211 (Introduction to U.S. Latino/a Studies) and an experiential learning course (US LS 325 or US LS 499). University policy indicates that minors must include at least 9 credits that are not applied to any other degree requirement. Required course work US LS 211 Introduction to U.S. Latino/a Studies 3 US LS 325 Culture and Community: Iowa and Midwest Latino/as 3 or US LS 499 Internship in US Latino/a Studies And nine credits from any US LS or US LS cross-listed course 9 Total Credits 15 Notes: A limit of six (6) credits of approved Spanish courses (304, 322, 324, 445) may be substituted for US LS courses. A maximum of 3 credit hours of US LS 490 (Independent Study) may applied toward the minor. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.