Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] American Studies, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) The M.A. in American Studies program is interdisciplinary, requiring graduate students to integrate knowledge from the humanities and social sciences. Particular areas of faculty specialization within the department include: gender and sexuality; race, class and ethnicity; literature, film, art and architecture as cultural expression; American regions; popular culture; nature and culture; cultural radicalism; ethnography; and globalization of American culture. Application Deadlines Applications are accepted only for the fall semester. Online applications must be completed by March 1 for the following fall semester (see Cal State Apply); mailed applications must be postmarked by the same date. However, deadlines may be changed based upon enrollment projections. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants must: (1) hold a bachelor’s degree with a major, or its equivalent, in American Studies or in an appropriate discipline of the humanities or social sciences; (2) have a grade-point average of at least 3.2 in upper-division major courses; and (3) submit two satisfactory letters of recommendation from instructors in upper-division major courses. Students whose undergraduate program indicates certain limited subject, grade or breadth deficiencies may be considered for admission, at the discretion of the graduate adviser, with approval of the department’s graduate committee. In such cases, a student must make up deficiencies, in consultation with the graduate adviser, and must complete all required courses with at least a “B” (3.0) average before classified graduate standing may be considered. Graduate Standing - Classified Students will be classified upon fulfillment of the above prerequisites and after development of an approved study plan. Study Plan American Studies (21 units) Required Courses AMST 501 - Theory and Methods (3) AMST 502T - Seminar: Selected Topics (3) (May be repeated for credit with different topic) Electives Additional upper-division or graduate level coursework in American studies (12) Choose one of the following: AMST 598 Thesis (3) should be taken in the semester immediately preceding graduation from the program An additional American Studies graduate level elective, i.e., AMST 599 or AMST 502T , plus successful completion of a three-part take home comprehensive examination based on the department’s core reading list Other Disciplines (6 units) Graduate-level seminars in anthropology, art, communications, comparative literature, English, geography, history, political science or sociology. Pedagogical and productions skill seminars are excluded. Students should select outside discipline seminars in consultation with the graduate advisor. Elective Skill (3 units) A student must demonstrate proficiency in a methodological skill appropriate to his or her scholarly interests. In consultation with an adviser, the student will select the skill to be developed. Proficiency in a foreign language or quantitative methods, or an internship in a related area, would, for example, be appropriate. If prerequisite work is necessary before a student can develop proficiency through three units of coursework, that preliminary work will not be counted toward the 30 units required for the M.A. degree. For further information, consult graduate program adviser. Total (30 Units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).