Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Political Science Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plan Undergraduate Minor Concurrent Undergraduate and Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Contact Information Jason Chrystal 557 Ross Hall pols.iastate.edu/ polsci@iastate.edu 515-294-6198 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Political Science The study of political science is designed to enable students to understand the nature of politics, public values, and policy, as well as the institutions and processes that produce these outcomes. Students completing a major in political science will understand and be able to interrelate the leading theories, literature, and approaches in the subfields of American government, political theory, international relations, comparative politics, and public policy. Graduates can analyze and formulate effective argumentation in written and oral forms, with the ability to appreciate and accommodate diverse political ideas and to collect and critique information and ideas of others in support of original arguments. Graduates appreciate the knowledge and civic responsibilities required for effective participation in political life. The political science major is often chosen by students preparing for a career in law. Students with this goal should consult with the department in selecting courses. Several internship options are available to the political science major, offering students the opportunity to experience practical application of the knowledge learned in academic courses. Expected Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, students should be able to: Understand the nature of politics, public values, and the institutions and processes of politics in their various forms. Understand and be able to interrelate the leading theories, literature, and approaches in the subfields of American government, political theory and methods, international relations, comparative politics, and public policy. Be able to analyze and formulate effective argumentation in written and oral forms, including the ability to appreciate and accommodate diverse political ideas, and to collect and critique information in ideas of others in support of original arguments. Appreciate the knowledge and civic responsibilities required for effective participation in political life. Requirements for the Major: For the purpose of defining undergraduate requirements in the Department of Political Science, the Department employs five subfields within the discipline, with the following courses in each: I. Law, justice, and Political philosophy POL S 230 Foundations of American Legal and Political Practices 3 POL S 235 Introduction to Ethics and Politics 3 POL S 319 Law and Politics 3 POL S 320 American Judicial Process 3 POL S 333 Democracy and Diversity in America 3 POL S 339 Liberty and Law in America 3 POL S 402 Legal Analysis 3 POL S 419 The Judiciary 3 POL S 420 Constitutional Law 3 POL S 421 Constitutional Freedoms 3 POL S 430 Foundations of Western Political Thought 3 POL S 431 Modern Political Thought 3 POL S 480 Ethics and Public Policy 3 II. UNITED STATES ELECTIONS AND INSTITUTIONS POL S 111 Introduction to American Government 3 POL S 306 Public Opinion and Voting Behavior 3 POL S 310 State and Local Government 3 POL S 318 Campaigns and Elections 3 POL S 360 American Institutions: Congress 3 POL S 361 American Institutions: The Presidency 3 POL S 363 American Institutions: Media 3 POL S 364 Political Parties and Interest Groups 3 POL S 385 Women in Politics 3 POL S 409 Political Game Theory 3 POL S 413 Intergovernmental Relations 3 POL S 460 American Political Institutions 3 III. Comparative Politics POL S 125 Democracy and Dictatorship: Introduction to Comparative Politics 3 POL S 305 Comparative Political Behavior 3 POL S 340 Politics of Developing Areas 3 POL S 342 Chinese Politics 3 POL S 343 Latin American Government and Politics 3 POL S 346 European Politics 3 POL S 348 British Government and Politics 3 POL S 349 Politics of Russia and Eastern Europe 3 POL S 350 Politics of the Middle East 3 POL S 370 Religion and Politics 3 POL S 444 Comparative Public Policy 3 IV. International CONFLICT AND COOPERATION POL S 121 Introduction to International Politics 3 POL S 354 War and the Politics of Humanitarianism 3 POL S 355 War and Politics 3 POL S 356 Theories of International Politics 3 POL S 357 International Security Policy 3 POL S 358 United States Foreign Policy 3 POL S 359 Current Issues in American Foreign Policy 3 POL S 381 International Political Economy 3 POL S 422 International Law 3 POL S 452 Comparative Foreign Policy 3 POL S 453 International Organization 3 V. Public Policy and Administration POL S 271 Public Organizations and Leadership 3 POL S 335 Science, Technology, and Public Policy 3 POL S 344 Public Policy 3 POL S 353 Immigration Policy 3 POL S 383 Environmental Politics and Policies 3 POL S 407 Proseminar in Public Policy 3 POL S 408 Policy Implementation 3 POL S 443 Energy Policy 3 POL S 475 Management in the Public Sector 3 POL S 477 Government, Business, and Society 3 POL S 487 Electronic Democracy 3 To complete the major in Political Science a student must earn 33 semester credits of courses in Political Science subject to the following conditions: Students must satisfactorily complete POL S 101 and POL S 301. Students must complete at least 15 credits in one of the five subfields listed above (or, with departmental approval, an alternative, substantively related set of 15 POL S credits), with at least 3 credits in each of three additional subfields. Political Science courses in which a student has a grade of D+ or lower will not count for the major but can be counted as electives. At least 21 credits of Political Science courses must be numbered 300 or above. At least 9 credits of Political Science courses must be numbered 400 or above. No more than three credits of POL S 490, POL S 496, POL S 497, or POL S 499 (alone or in combination) can be used to fulfill any of these requirements. At least 15 credits of Political Science coursework must be earned at Iowa State University. Students must pass at least one Statistics course from among STAT 101, STAT 104, or STAT 226. According to the university-wide Communication Proficiency Grade Requirement, students must demonstrate their communication proficiency by earning a grade of C or better in ENGL 250. Advanced Communication Skills: Majors must earn at least a C in one course from among ENGL 302, ENGL 309, or ENGL 314. Students in all ISU majors must complete a three-credit course in U.S. diversity and a three-credit course in international perspectives. Check (http://www.registrar.iastate.edu/courses/div-ip-guide.html) for a list of approved courses. Discuss with your advisor how the two courses that you select can be applied to your graduation plan. LAS majors require a minimum of 120 credits, including a minimum of 45 credits at the 300/400 level. Four Year Plan Political Science, B.A. Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits POL S 101 3 POL S 121 or 1251 3 ENGL 150 3 Natural Science Choice 3 LIB 160 1 Social Science Choice 3 Political Science Choice 3 Humanities Choice 3 Natural Science Choice 3 Elective 3 Social Science Choice 3 16 15 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 250 3 STAT 101, 104, or 2262 3-4 Political Science Choice 3 Political Science Choice - 300/400 Level 6 Natural Science Choice 2-3 Humanities Choice 3 Humanities Choice 3 World Language/Elective 3–4 World Language/Elective 3-4 15 15-16 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits POL S 301 3 Political Science Choice - 400 Level 3 Political Science Choice - 300/400 Level 3 Humanities Choice 3 ENGL 314, 302, or 309 3 Electives 9 U.S. Diversity Choice3 3 Elective 3 15 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits Political Science Choice - 400 Level 3 Political Science Choice - 400 Level 3 Electives 12 Electives 11 15 14 1 Meets international perspectives requirement. 2 STAT 101, 104, and 226 also meet LAS College math requirement. 3 May be cross-listed to fulfill other requirements. The department offers a minor in political science that may be earned by completing 15 credits of coursework in political science, fulfilling all of the following criteria: At least 9 of the credits must be in courses numbered 300 or above. At least 9 of the credits must have been taken at Iowa State University. At least 6 of the credits must be in courses numbered 300 or above, be taken at Iowa State University, and have a minimum grade of C. No more than 3 credits of POL S 312, POL S 313, POL S 314, POL S 315, or POL S 490, alone or in combination, may be included. None of the credits may be in courses offered only on a satisfactory/fail basis. At least 9 of the credits must not be used to meet other department, college, or university requirement. BA/MA PROGRAM The concurrent BA/MA classification offers well-qualified Iowa State juniors and seniors the opportunity to start working on a master’s degree in Political Science before completing a bachelor’s degree. Contact the department's Director of Graduate Education for more information about applying. Graduate Study The department offers work for a Master of Arts degree (MA) with a major in political science and minor for students in other departments. The department also offers work for a Graduate Certificate of Public Management and Policy (GCPMP) for those interested in an educational certificate program that requires less work than a full masters program. In addition, the Department of Political Science offers work for a Master of Science in Information Assurance (MSIA) and a joint Master of Arts/Juris Doctor (MA/JD) program with the Law School of Drake University. Information with detailed requirements for all graduate degrees may be obtained at the department’s web page at https://www.pols.iastate.edu/academics/graduate/ Master of Arts (MA) This is a 30-credit masters degree that gives students the opportunity to explore the field of political science in order to pursue a PhD, go to law school, improve research skills, or understand politics better. The three concentration areas are American Politics, Global Politics, and Public Policy. Although it is not a formal concentration, some students have worked heavily in the area of political theory. Top students are eligible for graduate assistantships that make graduate study much more affordable and provide opportunities for assisting faculty with teaching and research. These are awarded on a merit basis. A thesis is required for this degree. The department also has a joint Master of Arts/Juris Doctor (MA/JD) program with the Law School of Drake University. Students wishing to pursue this joint degree must submit separate applications to Drake University and Iowa State University and be accepted by both institutions. MA graduates have a broad substantive understanding of the political process and the academic study of politics. They also have in-depth knowledge of one or more subfields in political science. Graduates are skilled at conducting research and preparing thorough research summaries. They are able to identify and address complex political questions, taking into account related ethical, legal, economic, and social issues. The prerequisites for major graduate work in the MA program normally are completion of at least 15 credits in political science, the GRE (Graduate Record Examination), one year of a foreign language (equivalent to 8 semester hours), and a course in basic statistics (equivalent to STAT 101). If the basic statistics requirement has not been met, the student may remedy the deficiency by passing equivalent courses, for which no graduate credit will be received. During their program of study, all students are expected to complete STAT 587, POL S 502, and a thesis. Additional information including detailed graduation requirements can be found at https://www.pols.iastate.edu/academics/graduate/#ma Master of Science in Information Assurance (MSIA) The Master of Science in Information Assurance (MSIA) is a multi-disciplinary program designed to provide students with diverse backgrounds and interests the opportunity to obtain professional training in the emerging field of information assurance. The core of the MSIA program is built around a series of courses taught in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Mathematics, and Computer Science that introduce students to software and hardware aspects of cryptography and computer security. The program also recognizes, however, that information assurance defined in terms of security, privacy, access, and reliability is not simply a technical problem but also involves important societal dimensions, including policy, education, ethics, and management. Recognizing that political science offers many potential intersections with information assurance (e.g., public sector management of information technology; forensics and computer crime; information technology policy and law; information technology and international relations; information warfare; etc.), students with interests in these areas are encouraged to select the Department of Political Science as their home department. Students opting to pursue a MSIA degree through the Department of Political Science can expect to acquire skills and background knowledge relevant to a career in public policy or public sector management of information assurance technologies. The MSIA degree can also help prepare students who wish to go on to pursue a PhD in information politics and policy. Students interested in the MSIA degree program should consider Political Science as a home department if their future career and/or educational interests lie in such areas as: institutional issues related to the Internet and information technologies; electronic government and electronic democracy; information technology, international security, and information warfare; information technology policy and law; and public administration and public sector management of information technology. Admission requirements generally follow the same guidelines as the MA in Political Science. Degree requirements are specified by the MSIA program in cooperation with Political Science. More in-depth information on the program including detailed graduation requirements can be found at: https://www.pols.iastate.edu/academics/graduate/#msia Master of Arts/Juris Doctorate Program (MA/JD) The Drake Law School and the Department of Political Science at Iowa State University are co-sponsors of the Master of Arts/Juris Doctorate degree. This degree combines courses at both Iowa State University and the Drake Law School and follows most of the same requirements as a double degree. However, the student must have full admission to both schools. Detailed information for the MA/JD can be found at the ISU Political Science webpage as well as the Drake Law School website (under Joint Degree): http://www.law.drake.edu/. The increasing attention being focused on the solution of social problems by state and federal governments has created a need for persons with advanced training in both law and political science. The Drake Law School and the ISU Department of Political Science jointly administer a MA/JD program to provide an opportunity for students at the Drake Law School to achieve, concurrently, a JD degree in law and a MA degree in political science, and for graduate students in political science at Iowa State University to achieve a degree in law. Successful completion of this program will enable students at Drake Law School to receive both a JD and an MA degree within a three-year period, while graduate students in political science at Iowa State University will be able to transfer a substantial number of hours to the Drake Law School toward the fulfillment of the JD requirements in a similar amount of time. Additional information including detailed graduation requirements can be found at: https://www.pols.iastate.edu/academics/graduate/#majd Graduate MINOR Students in other graduate programs may obtain a minor in political science by completing at least 9 credits of political science courses. Interested students should consult the Graduate College Handbook for additional information on graduate minors. THE GRADUATE CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT AND POLICY (GCPMP) The Political Science Department offers a Graduate Certificate of Public Management and Policy (GCPMP). The GCPMP is a 15-credit certificate. Students who are interested in public management and policy, but unsure about committing to a full master's degree, can aim for the certificate knowing that those courses will also count toward a master's degree if they choose to continue on. Iowa State graduate students in other fields may want to pursue the certificate to improve their credentials on the job market if their interest overlaps with public management and policy. For example, doctoral students in higher education and education administration can earn all 9 of their "outside" credits in the GCPMP coursework, add the 6 more elective credits, and earn a GCPMP along with their PhD. Requirements for admission are a graduate school application, an essay stating purposes for study, college transcripts, the GRE (waived for those with five or more years of public or nonprofit sector experience), three letters of recommendation, and the TOEFL for international students. More information on the program including curricular requirements can be found at: https://www.pols.iastate.edu/academics/graduate/#gcpm/. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.