Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advising Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog Information Technology Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Student Technical Support Zoom Announcements and System Status TitanCard Innovation/Makerspace Center Data Visualization Center Canvas Student Technical Support Student IT Help Desk The Student IT Help Desk offers technical support to students via phone, email or chat. Students may contact the Student IT Help Desk 24/7 during the fall and spring semesters. Call: 657-278-8888 Email: studentithelpdesk@fullerton.edu Chat: via Portal, click Online IT Help Student Genius Center Pollak Library, first floor The Student Genius Center assists students with all of their walk-in support questions. Students may check out equipment such as laptops, iPads, portable chargers and even reserve smart group study rooms. Students can get in-person help with campus-related software installation, wireless connectivity issues and more. To view current hours, visit the SGC website. Technology Needs Students can make sure they have the technology tools they need by requesting a campus-issued PC laptop, webcam or headset for their classes. Visit the IT Device Request web page for more information. Software Students can download a variety of software at no additional cost. Available software titles include Adobe Creative Cloud (Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere Pro, etc.), Dropbox, Office 365, Grammarly, SPSS and more. To view the full list and to download software, visit the Student Software website. Student Two-Factor Authentication All currently enrolled students and incoming applicants are required to use DUO Two-Factor Authentication (2FA). This cybersecurity feature prompts students to confirm their identity before signing into the campus Portal, applications that require Microsoft login and other campus resources. Interdisciplinary College Collaboration Space Pollak Library, second floor The Interdisciplinary College Collaboration Space is an area for students to utilize the technology they need for their majors. Each college space includes a 65” Samsung display, with Apple TV (AirPlay), Microsoft wireless display (MiraCast), mobile whiteboards and comfortable collaboration seating. Smart Group Study Rooms Pollak Library The Student Genius Center has nine Smart Group Study Rooms. These rooms come equipped with computers and monitors for groups to utilize while they study. Virtual Labs Connect to high performance computers and access specialized software through the Virtual Labs. These computer labs help students utilize necessary software, remotely. Center for Equitable Digital Access The Center for Equitable Digital Access supports campus efforts to bridge the digital divide for all students by ensuring access to a device through either the CSUCCESS initiative or the TitanWare program. To assist students with technology needs, CEDA has a semester-long loaner program for laptops, iPads, MiFi (portable hotspots), headsets, webcams, monitors and eGPU’s. Requests for loaner devices must be submitted by the online request form. iFullerton and iTuffy Mobile Apps Use the iFullerton app to view classes, course catalog, iTuffy, add attendance, view the weather, use Titan Mobile and more. The iTuffy Chatbot serves as a 24/7 resource to campus information. Find iTuffy in the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store. iTuffy can also be accessed via Amazon Alexas across the campus. Portal The campus portal provides secure access to email, Canvas Learning Management System (LMS), Student/Employee Titan Online, campus news, university announcements, TitanCard deposits and other information that is personalized to the user. Titan Direct Access Titan Direct Access Program offers digital distribution of course materials to students through the Campus Portal and Canvas. The program, designed to promote student success, is a partnership between the Division of Academic Affairs, Division of Information Technology and Titan Shops. Students are able to access the course material the week before the semester begins. This ensures students are better prepared for a successful semester. Wireless Services IT provides a fast, reliable wireless network across campus for students. For more information on how to connect to the CSUF eduroam wireless network, visit the Wireless Internet Access website. Eduroam is available at many universities or institutions near students. Check the eduroam locator for a complete list. Zoom Zoom is a web conferencing software that is available for all students, faculty and staff. Users can collaborate and attend classes that are broadcast on Zoom, remotely. Announcements and System Status Look for important messages and systems status notifications via email, social media (follow @CSUFIT on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook) and/or the IT homepage. TitanCard TitanCard is the official identification card issued by the university. In addition to serving as a photo ID card and providing access to campus facilities, TitanCard can also be used as a stored value card for various campus services. For more information, visit the TitanCard website, or go to the Pollak Library to obtain your card. Innovation/Makerspace Center The Innovation/Makerspace Center, located on the second floor of Pollak Library, has been created to fulfill creativity, innovation and talent through advanced technology, such as virtual reality, augmented reality, 3D printing, Microsoft Surface Hub, Raspberry Pi and high-end computing. Room reservations can be made online. Data Visualization Center Pollak Library, second floor The Data Visualization Center offers users an immersive space to analyze and display data in an innovative and meaningful way. The high-tech center is equipped with tools, including flexible furniture to handle large data sets along with a 184” screen to display the data in high resolution. Canvas Canvas is the campus Learning Management System (LMS). Faculty may post course information through Canvas. Students and faculty can access Canvas through their campus portal. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).