Skip to Content Skip to main content Search X Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines ﻿ Search ﻿ Menu Academic Catalog eCourseware umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost’s Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College eCourseware Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Administrative Support President’s Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online ﻿Instagram ﻿Facebook ﻿twitter ﻿Youtube ﻿Linkedn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance…” 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct. University of Memphis May 31, 2022 UofM 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog Select a Catalog Online Catalogs UOFM 2022-2023 UNDERGRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UOFM 2022-2023 GRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog * [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs College and Department Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home COVID-19 Statement About UofM About Catalog Course Descriptions Undergraduate Catalog Archive Academics UofM President’s Message Academic Program Accreditation Academic Regulations Academic Year Calendars Academic Forms Explanation of Course Footnotes Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Minors Degree Type Accelerated Programs Certificate Students Apply Now! Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Transfer Students Military Students Dual Enrollment Student Aid & Scholarships University & Student Business Services (Bursar) Services for Students Parent & Family Involvement Campus Directory Campus Map Notice to Students Graduation from University General Education Requirements Planning General Requirements & Graduation College and Degree Requirements Colleges and Departments University Administration, Faculty and Staff College of Arts and Sciences College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education College of Professional & Liberal Studies Fogelman College of Business & Economics Helen Hardin Honors College Herff College of Engineering Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Loewenberg College of Nursing School of Communication Sciences and Disorders College of Health Sciences School of Public Health UofM Global My Portfolio HELP UofM 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Professional Studies, Early Care and Learning, (B.P.S) Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Return to: Undergraduate Programs (All Programs) The Early Care and Learning (ECL) concentration provides a foundation for a career in working with young children (0-4) in early care and education and other applied settings. Students who choose the ECL concentration are expected to develop knowledge and skills in child development and learning, observation and assessment, pedagogy and research through classroom and field experiences. Students will be prepared for employment in a discipline working with children and families, and may pursue graduate training that leads to careers in education, academia, research, health professions, or social work. For information on careers in this and other disciplines students should consult the Career Services Office located on the 4th Wilder Tower, 678-2239. This Program DOES NOT lead to teacher licensure. Students interested in gaining a teaching license should contact the College of Education at 678-2728 or visit their website at: http://www.memphis.edu/tep/ General Education (35-41 hours) See University General Education Program for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. Coordinated Study (51 hours) Many upper-division (3000/4000-level) courses have prerequisites that must be met prior to being permitted to register for those courses. You are responsible for knowing and satisfying all course prerequisites. Some (not all) prerequisites are listed below. For specific information about courses and the prerequisites they may have, please view course descriptions at: Course Descriptions . Many courses also require permits from the department that teaches the course. For example, SWRK and CJUS courses will always need permits from those respective departments. College of Professional & Liberal Studies staff cannot issue permits for courses taught in other departments. ALL 3000/4000 level classes taught by the College of Business (ACCT, ECON, FIR, MGMT, MKTG) require a permit; students must request a permit online at: https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/permits/. Child Development & Family Studies Core (21 hours) CDFS 2100 - Intro Fld of Chld Dev & Fam St Credit Hours: (3) CDFS 2101 - Family/Global Perspective ** Credit Hours: (3) CDFS 3401 - Parent Child Relations Credit Hours: (3) CDFS 4220 - Understand Chldn/Behv/Guide Credit Hours: (3) CDFS 4223 - Home/School/Comm Engage Credit Hours: (3) CDFS 4910 - Ethics in Early Care and Learning Credit Hours: (3) EDPR 2111 - Development Across Lifespan Credit Hours: (3) Early Care and Learning Core (27 hours) CDFS 2110 - Infant/Toddler Development Credit Hours: (3) CDFS 3410 - Soc Emotion Lrng Early Child Credit Hours: (3) CDFS 3420 - Play-Based Assessment for Young Children (0-4) Credit Hours: (3) CDFS 3430 - Child Language for Early Learning Professional Credit Hours: (3) CDFS 4101 - Int Curr for Early Learners Credit Hours: (3) CDFS 4230 - Math/Science Early Learning Credit Hours: (3) ICL 4001 - Teaching/Diverse Environment Credit Hours: (3) SPED 2000 - Foundation/Exceptional Learn Credit Hours: (3) UNIV 4110 - Internship** Credit Hours: (3-6) College Requirements (9 hours) Thematic Studies (6 hours) College of Professional & Liberal Studies thematic studies course(s) are designed to broaden a student’s knowledge of significant themes in social, political, and religious history. Review a complete list of courses: https://www.memphis.edu/cpls/resources/thematic_studies.php Senior Project (3 hours) The senior project is a student’s culminating experience or capstone designed to synthesize and integrate the content of a student’s program of study. The senior project is intended to fuse the two or more academic areas that comprise the student’s coordinated study (major) into an academically-relevant example of scholarship. Students will complete a thesis, task-based, or artistic project on a topic of their choice with approval of their senior project instructor. The senior project is completed during a student’s final semester. Students will be assigned to a specific section based on their concentration. UNIV 4995 - Senior Project** Credit Hours: (3) (completed during the final semester) General Electives (19-28 hours) May be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. Interested in becoming a Registered Behavior Technician (RBT)? An RBT is a designation that can be obtained with appropriate coursework and successful completion of a competency assessment. Most RBTs work under the supervision and guidance of a Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA). Courses consist of a four-course sequence (SPED 4111, 4112, 4113, & 4114), and can be completed entirely online. These courses can be added to any UofM major. The coursework will cover the basics of applied behavior analysis, as well as how to effectively measure, assess, and intervene with children, including those with autism. Return to: Undergraduate Programs (All Programs) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 University of Memphis. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).