Skip to Content About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Research Quick Links Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs The Second Century Campaign Virtual Tour Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More ﻿ Alumni Parents News Media Faculty/Staff ﻿ Apply ﻿ Give ﻿ Get Involved ﻿ Follow Us ﻿ ﻿ Twitter ﻿ Facebook ﻿ Instagram ﻿ LinkedIn ﻿ YouTube ﻿ Social Stream ﻿ Apply Give Get Involved ☰ About SMU ﻿ About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center A nationally ranked private university with seven degree-granting schools, SMU is a distinguished center for teaching and research located near the heart of Dallas. SMU’s 11,000 students benefit from small classes, research opportunities, leadership development, international study and innovative programs. The University is strengthened by its partnership with the Dallas region, a global center of commerce and culture. SMU students, faculty and alumni are changing the world through their chosen fields, civic engagement and service to society. Academics ﻿ Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Study Abroad Continuing & Professional Education International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Teaching and research fuse into breakthrough experiences in one of the brightest academic communities in the world. Our 11:1 student-to-faculty ratio means students build strong relationships with outstanding faculty who champion their ambition and drive, whether it’s for tackling climate change, fighting cancer or pursuing another passion. Admission ﻿ Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour SMU’s singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We’d like to help you shape yours. Apply Now Schedule a Visit Athletics ﻿ SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports SMU offers 16 nationally competitive sports programs and more than 30 individual and team intramural activities. We prepare student-athletes for life by equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to become valuable citizens and leaders in their communities. Campus Life Research Quick Links ﻿ Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs The Second Century Campaign Virtual Tour SMU is one of only nine universities affiliated with a presidential library. The George W. Bush Presidential Center (left) offers unique learning experiences to SMU students – including free admission to museum exhibits – plus research opportunities for faculty and scholars from around the world. Bush Center Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Southern Methodist University May 31, 2022 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog Select a Catalog Bulletin of Southern Methodist University Volume CV 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home University Calendar About SMU Catalog Policy and Legal Statement General Education University Honors Program Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Cox School of Business Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Simmons School of Education and Human Development Interdisciplinary Programs Majors and Minors Course Descriptions Admission Transfer Pathway Guides to SMU Enrollment and Academic Records Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Student Life and Housing Right to Know Educational Facilities and Services Educational Programs Administration and Faculty Financial Information Bulletin 2020-2021 My Catalog HELP 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Transfer Pathway Guides to SMU Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) SMU welcomes transfer students from all colleges and universities! Transfer students comprise a large and important component of the total student body and their diverse academic backgrounds enrich the educational experience for all students. These transfer guides are prepared by SMU’s Transfer and Transition Services. They are designed to allow students to easily match transfer coursework with requirements at SMU. Other helpful information such as admission procedures and requirements, academic programs, and course conversions are also included. Careful review of transfer guides should facilitate a seamless transfer to the University and minimize the loss of credit. Transfer counselors in the Office of Admission are available to answer your questions and provide more information. When using the guides, please keep in mind a degree from SMU is typically comprised of a minimum of 122 hours, 60 of which must be completed in residence at SMU. Components of the degree include: Courses in your major Courses required for the Common Curriculum (CC) Elective courses. These electives may also be used to add a second major or minor. Interactive course equivalency guides for many transfer institutions are available on the Transfer and Transition Services’ website. These guides allow students to build a report to see how their courses will transfer to SMU. Specific requirements for transfer admission are found under Transfer Admission Criteria in the Admission section of this catalog. Common Curriculum (CC) Common Curriculum Pathway Guide for Texas Common Course Numbering System (TCCNS) (Including Dallas, Collin and Tarrant County Community Colleges) Bobby B. Lyle School of Engineering Civil Engineering Pathway Guide Computer Engineering Pathway Guide Computer Science Pathway Guide Electrical Engineering Pathway Guide Environmental Engineering Pathway Guide Management Science Pathway Guide Mechanical Engineering Pathway Guide Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Anthropology Pathway Guide Biological Sciences Pathway Guide Chemistry Pathway Guide Earth Sciences Pathway Guide Economics Pathway Guide English Pathway Guide History Pathway Guide Human Rights Pathway Guide International Studies Pathway Guide Markets and Culture Pathway Guide Mathematics Pathway Guide Philosophy Pathway Guide Physics Pathway Guide Political Science Pathway Guide Psychology Pathway Guide Religious Studies Pathway Guide Sociology Pathway Guide Statistical Science Pathway Guide Edwin L. Cox School of Business Cox School of Business Pathway Guide Meadows School of the Arts Advertising Pathway Guide Art History Pathway Guide Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Pathway Guide Film and Media Arts Pathway Guide Journalism Pathway Guide Music Education Pathway Guide Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development Applied Physiology and Sports Management Pathway Guide Education Pathway Guide Other Helpful Guides Financial Aid Pathway Guide International Transfers Pathway Guide Veterans Pathway Guide Honors Program Pathway Guide Merit Scholarships Pathway Guide Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 Southern Methodist University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).