Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Feed Technology Minor Select a section... Overview Requirements Contact Information Elaine Phompheng Student Services Specialist abe.iastate.edu/feed-technology-minor/ elaine@iastate.edu 515-294-5196 Dr. Tom Brumm Associate Professor 515-294-5145 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Interdisciplinary Programs > Minor > Feed Technology Minor The agricultural economy is heavily dependent on feed technology. The Midwest is one of the largest feed production and grain processing regions in the world. Feed manufacturing is also a global business with a growing demand for qualified technical professionals. Feed technology includes the areas of grain handling and storage, animal nutrition, feed formulation, feed manufacturing, biosecurity, and feed safety and quality. The Feed Technology minor (15 credits) covers the breadth of all these topics so that you can: Understand animal nutrition, feed mill operations management and their application to feed quality, safety, and profitability; Identify chemical, biological and physical hazards in grain and feed; Know practical ways to monitor, manage and mitigate hazards in grain handling and feed manufacturing facilities; and Be familiar with the importance, scope and trends of the global animal feed industry. The minor requires 15 credits and must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Below is the list of courses used in the minor. TSM 322 Preservation of Grain Quality 3 or A B E 469 Engineering for Grain Storage, Preservation, Handling, and Processing Systems TSM 455 Feed Processing and Technology 3 TSM 457 Feed Safety, Ingredient Quality and Analytics 3 AN S 320 Animal Feeds and Feeding 3 AN S 324 Food Processing for Companion Animals 3 Total Credits 15 Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.