Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home GA Tech Home 2022-2023 Catalog Toggle menu GT Home Print Options Search Close Search Catalog Submit search Home› Policies› Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and Applicant Records 2022-2023 Edition 2022-2023 Edition Governance Colleges and Schools Programs Courses Academics Admissions Financial Policies Academic Honor Code Alcohol and Drug Policy Certificate Guidelines Disabled Persons Assistance Discrimination Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and Applicant Records Grading & GPA Health Policies Institute Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Intellectual Property Policy Required Computer Ownership Sexual Misconduct Policy Student Absence from Class Due to Illness or Personal Emergencies Rules and Regulations Student Services Archived Catalogs Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and Applicant Records Notification of Student Rights Under FERPA The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) affords students certain rights with respect to their education records. They are: The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) affords students certain rights with respect to their education records. They are: The right to inspect and review the student's education records within forty-five days of the day that the Institute receives the request for access. Students should submit written requests to the Registrar’s office in order to identify the record(s) they wish to inspect. The Registrar will make arrangements for access and notify the student of the time and place where the records may be inspected. Students should specify the specific records being requested as stated below when making such written request: Transcripts (Office of the Registrar) Student Disciplinary Records (Office of Student Integrity) Title IX records (Title IX Coordinator) Student Housing (Department of Housing) Financial Aid Records (Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid) For education records that are not specified above, please include a sufficient description and, if possible, the location for the requested records as these records are transient in nature and are not routinely maintained as part of a student’s FERPA records. Please note that fees may be assessed solely to remove other student information that is protected by FERPA and that may be contained within these transient records. You will not be charged to review your student records except as stated herein and we will notify you first if fees may be assessed. The right to request the amendment of the student's education records that the student believes are inaccurate or misleading. Students may ask the Institute to amend a record that they believe is inaccurate or misleading. They should write the registrar, clearly identifying the part of the record they want changed, and specify why it is inaccurate or misleading. If the Institute decides not to amend the record as requested by the student, the Institute will notify the student of the decision and advise the student of their right to a hearing regarding the request for amendment. Additional information regarding the hearing procedures will be provided to the student when notified of the right to a hearing. The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student's education records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent. One exception which permits disclosure without consent is disclosure to school officials with legitimate educational interests. A school official is a person whether volunteering for or employed by the Institute in an administrative, supervisory, academic or research, or support staff position (including law enforcement unit personnel and health staff); a person or company with whom the Institute has contracted (such as an attorney, auditor, or collection agent); a person serving on the Board of Regents; a staff member in the office of the Board of Regents; staff in the Office of the Attorney General; or a student serving on an official committee, such as a disciplinary or grievance committee, or assisting another school official in performing their tasks. A school official has a legitimate educational interest if the official needs to review an education record in order to fulfill their professional responsibility. The right to file a complaint with the United States Department of Education concerning alleged failures by the Georgia Institute of Technology to comply with the requirements of FERPA. The name and address of the Office that administers FERPA is: Family Policy Compliance Office U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202-4605 Applicant Records Access to applicant records is strictly controlled and governed by Institute policy. To the extent permitted by law, these records are treated as confidential. Annual Notice of Directory Information Contents "Directory Information" is information not generally considered harmful or an invasion of privacy if disclosed. Effective May 11, 2020, the Georgia Institute of Technology considers the following information to be directory information: Name Campus mailing address Georgia Tech email address Level (graduate or undergraduate) Field of study (degree, major, minor) Enrollment status (full-time, part-time, less than part-time) Dates of attendance Degrees with associated honors and designations, and date(s) awarded Anticipated date of graduation Participation in NCAA Division I sports, including terms of team membership Directory information cannot include social security numbers. Students who wish to prohibit the release of Directory Information can view information on the registrar's confidentiality Web page. Georgia Tech’s use of information concerning an individual’s financial assistance, including information from the Free Application for Financial Aid (FAFSA), is limited and restricted. For more information, see the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid policy on information sharing. Possible Federal and State Data Collection and Use As of January 3, 2012, the U.S. Department of Education's FERPA regulations expand the circumstances under which your education records and personally identifiable information (PII) contained in such records — including your Social Security Number, grades, or other private information — may be accessed without your consent. First, the U.S. Comptroller General, the U.S. Attorney General, the U.S. Secretary of Education, or state and local education authorities ("Federal and State Authorities") may allow access to your records and PII without your consent to any third party designated by a Federal or State Authority to evaluate a federal- or state-supported education program. The evaluation may relate to any program that is "principally engaged in the provision of education," such as early childhood education and job training, as well as any program that is administered by an education agency or institution. Second, Federal and State Authorities may allow access to your education records and PII without your consent to researchers performing certain types of studies, in certain cases even when we object to or do not request such research. Federal and State Authorities must obtain certain use-restriction and data security promises from the entities that they authorize to receive your PII, but the Authorities need not maintain direct control over such entities. In addition, in connection with Statewide Longitudinal Data Systems, State Authorities may collect, compile, permanently retain, and share without your consent PII from your education records, and they may track your participation in education and other programs by linking such PII to other personal information about you that they obtain from other Federal or State data sources, including workforce development, unemployment insurance, child welfare, juvenile justice, military service, and migrant student records systems. Additional Information Additional information on Georgia Tech's FERPA policies is available from the Registrar's Office. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Catalog Group | Login Back to top Close this window Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page.