Skip to Content East Carolina University Office of the Registrar | Phone: 252.328.6524 East Carolina University May 31, 2022 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog Select a Catalog 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2014 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2014 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2012-2013 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2012-2013 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home The University Academic Advisement, Progression and Support Services Academic Regulations Admission and Readmission Colleges/Schools and Associated Programs Certificates, Degrees and other Undergraduate Programs NC Community College Transfers Courses Distance Education/ECU Online Expenses and Financial Assistance General Education Program Scholar, International, and Leadership Programs Student Affairs What’s New This Year? Academic Calendars Archived Catalogs Campus Map Faculty Emeriti Graduate Catalog University Policies HELP 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog Colleges/Schools and Associated Programs Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Undergraduate Degrees, Minors, and Certificates Certificates, Degrees, and Minors listed Alphabetically Certificates, degrees, and minors listed by type East Carolina University Honors College Go to information for Honors College. Integrated Coastal Programs Go to information for Integrated Coastal Programs. Department of Coastal Studies Go to information for Department of Coastal Studies. Thomas Harriot College of Arts and Sciences Go to information for Thomas Harriot College of Arts and Sciences. Department of Anthropology Go to information for Department of Anthropology. Department of Biology Go to information for Department of Biology. Department of Chemistry Go to information for Department of Chemistry. Department of Criminal Justice Go to information for Department of Criminal Justice. Department of Economics Go to information for Department of Economics. Department of English Go to information for Department of English. Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures Go to information for Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures. Department of Geography, Planning, and Environment Go to information for Department of Geography, Planning, and Environment. Department of Geological Sciences Go to information for Department of Geological Sciences. Department of History Go to information for Department of History. Interdisciplinary Programs Go to information for Interdisciplinary Programs. Department of Mathematics Go to information for Department of Mathematics. Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies Go to information for Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies. Department of Physics Go to information for Department of Physics. Department of Political Science Go to information for Department of Political Science. Department of Psychology Go to information for Department of Psychology. Department of Sociology Go to information for Department of Sociology. College of Allied Health Sciences Go to information for College of Allied Health Sciences. Department of Addictions and Rehabilitation Studies Go to information for Department of Addictions and Rehabilitation Studies. Department of Biostatistics Go to information for Department of Biostatistics. Department of Clinical Laboratory Science Go to information for Department of Clinical Laboratory Science. Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders Go to information for Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders. Department of Health Services and Information Management Go to information for Department of Health Services and Information Management. Department of Nutrition Science Go to information for Department of Nutrition Science. College of Business Go to information for College of Business. Department of Accounting Go to information for Department of Accounting. Department of Finance and Insurance Go to information for Department of Finance and Insurance. Department of Management Go to information for Department of Management. Department of Management Information Systems Go to information for Department of Management Information Systems. Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management Go to information for Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management. Miller School of Entrepreneurship Go to information for Miller School of Entrepreneurship. School of Hospitality Leadership Go to information for School of Hospitality Leadership. College of Education Go to information for College of Education. Department of Elementary Education and Middle Grades Education Go to information for Department of Elementary Education and Middle Grades Education. Department of Interdisciplinary Professions Go to information for Department of Interdisciplinary Professions. Department of Literacy Studies, English Education, and History Education Go to information for Department of Literacy Studies, English Education, and History Education. Department of Mathematics, Science, and Instructional Technology Education Go to information for Department of Mathematics, Science, and Instructional Technology Education. Department of Special Education, Foundations, and Research Go to information for Department of Special Education, Foundations, and Research. College of Engineering and Technology Go to information for College of Engineering and Technology. Department of Computer Science Go to information for Department of Computer Science. Department of Construction Management Go to information for Department of Construction Management. Department of Engineering Go to information for Department of Engineering. Department of Technology Systems Go to information for Department of Technology Systems. College of Fine Arts and Communication Go to information for College of Fine Arts and Communication. School of Art and Design Go to information for School of Art and Design. School of Communication Go to information for School of Communication. School of Music Go to information for School of Music. School of Theatre and Dance Go to information for School of Theatre and Dance. College of Health and Human Performance Go to information for College of Health and Human Performance. Department of Health Education and Promotion Go to information for Department of Health Education and Promotion. Department of Human Development and Family Science Go to information for Department of Human Development and Family Science. Department of Interior Design and Merchandising Go to information for Department of Interior Design and Merchandising. Department of Kinesiology Go to information for Department of Kinesiology. Department of Recreation Sciences Go to information for Department of Recreation Sciences. School of Social Work Go to information for School of Social Work. Military Programs Go to information for Military Programs. College of Nursing Go to information for College of Nursing. Brody School of Medicine Go to information for Brody School of Medicine. Department of Bioethics and Interdisciplinary Studies Go to information for Department of Bioethics and Interdisciplinary Studies. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 East Carolina University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).