Skip to Content East Carolina University Office of the Registrar | Phone: 252.328.6524 East Carolina University May 31, 2022 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog Select a Catalog 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2014 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2014 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2012-2013 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2012-2013 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home The University Academic Advisement, Progression and Support Services Academic Regulations Admission and Readmission Colleges/Schools and Associated Programs Certificates, Degrees and other Undergraduate Programs NC Community College Transfers Courses Distance Education/ECU Online Expenses and Financial Assistance General Education Program Scholar, International, and Leadership Programs Student Affairs What’s New This Year? Academic Calendars Archived Catalogs Campus Map Faculty Emeriti Graduate Catalog University Policies HELP 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog Expenses and Financial Assistance Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) General Information Undergraduate Student Residency Military Residency Expenses Enrollment Deposit Fee Payment Schedule Indebtedness to the University and Returned Checks Refund Policy Refunding of Tuition and Fees Policy Exceptions Summer Sessions Financial Assistance Veterans Administration Educational Payments UNC Campus Scholarships National and International Fellowships and Scholarships Office of Student Financial Aid Office of University Scholarships General Information Because of the early publication of this catalog, the tuition and fee schedule is omitted. The current university schedule of tuition and fees can be obtained from the cashier’s office, the admissions office, or www.ecu.edu/cs-admin/financial_serv/cashier/tufee.cfm. It is estimated that the average student who is a North Carolina resident incurs necessary expenses of approximately $17,700 for room, meals, tuition, and fees during an academic year of two semesters. The costs of meals and textbooks may vary considerably, according to individual requirements. The university operates food service facilities in six locations throughout the campus. Meals are available either under a meal plan or by individual selections at moderate prices. The estimated cost for the average meal plan is $2,257.00 (including sales tax) per semester. More information about campus living may be found at https://campusliving.ecu.edu/. Students are required to purchase textbooks and course materials each semester. For student convenience, the university owns and operates the Dowdy Student Stores, which is located on the main level of the Main Campus Student Center and the second floor of the Health Sciences Student Center. There students will be able to find all necessary books and supplies. The cost of books will vary with the different curricula, and different formats (e.g., used, rental, and digital). More information about the Dowdy Student Stores may be found at https://studentstores.ecu.edu/. Undergraduate Student Residency Residency Classification and Reclassification The State Education Assistance Authority (SEAA) is the authoritative source for all residency determinations in North Carolina. Session Law 2015-241 authorized the State Education Assistance Authority (SEAA) to perform all functions necessary to implement the coordinated and centralized Residency Determination Service (RDS) to apply the criteria in G.S. §116-143.1. This statute addresses the specific standards for determining resident status for tuition purposes. Undergraduate students applying for admission and claiming in-state residency for tuition purposes or currently enrolled students seeking a reconsideration after March 1, 2017, must visit the https://ncresidency.cfnc.org/residencyInfo/ for more information or to apply. Determining Residency Status for Tuition in North Carolina Residency applications must be submitted to the Residency Determination Service (RDS) by 5pm on the tenth-class day for which in-state residency for tuition purpose is being sought. https://ncresidency.cfnc.org/residencyInfo/ Overview of Requirements To qualify for in-state tuition or to establish eligibility for state grant determination under North Carolina law, a student must prove: they established and maintained their legal residence in North Carolina for 12 months before claiming residency intent and capacity to maintain permanent legal residence in North Carolina they are here for a purpose other than going to college (some students may never qualify as an in-state resident for tuition purposes, particularly if they came to North Carolina to attend college) Simply residing in North Carolina is NOT enough. A student must show permanent ties to North Carolina by proving that any previous state of residence has been abandoned. Students may not have more than one legal residence (domicile) at one time. To qualify for in-state tuition or to establish eligibility for state grant determination, you or your parent(s)/guardian(s) must demonstrate capacity, presence, intent, and duration: Capacity: the ability to make North Carolina your permanent home legally and financially and remain in NC permanently to claim residency on your own (separate from your parent(s)/guardian(s) you must demonstrate capacity based on your own financial resources, not through support from your parent(s) or through gifts from someone else Presence: be physically present in and reside in North Carolina Intent: perform various actions as evidence of making North Carolina your permanent home (domicile) rather than residing in the state for the purpose of attending college Duration: maintain a domicile continuously for at least 12 full months before you claim residency Considerations During Residency Determination Process Length/Intent of North Carolina Residency How long has the student been in the state of North Carolina? Has the student left the state of NC for an extended period (including the break between spring and fall semesters)? What were the reasons for moving to North Carolina? Have there been sufficient actions initiated by the student to become a resident of North Carolina? Is there intent for the student to reside in North Carolina following graduation from college Financial Considerations Does the student claim to be self-supporting? If so, is the student employed in the state of NC? In which state did the student file taxes? Is the student a dependent on someone else’s taxes? In which state do the student’s parent(s) or legal guardian reside? What are all the sources of financial support for the student RDS coordinates all aspects of the residency determination process including reconsiderations, RDS appeals, and SEAA Statewide appeals. For contact information, see below. NC RDS Website 844-319-3640 (toll free) 919-835-2427 (fax) rdsinfo@ncresidency.org Military Residency Section 702 of the Veterans Choice Act Veterans and dependents may qualify for in-state residents for tuition purposes after an initial classification of out-of-state by the Residency Determination Service. These veterans and dependents are required to provide additional information through the Section 702 Veterans Choice Act and NC SB 257. Under the Choice Act, a covered individual meets these qualifications: A veteran, dependent of a veteran, or a spouse/child using benefits under the Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry Scholarship Lives in the state in which the institution of higher learning is located, regardless of his/her formal state of residence The dependent or spouse of an active duty service member enrolled in the institution while using transferred Ch33 Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits, or, benefits under the Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry Scholarship An active-duty veteran not living in North Carolina is not a covered individual at this time. A dependent of an active duty or veteran may qualify provided they will be living in North Carolina on the first day of classes. All students must apply for residency through the Residency Determination Service and supply all required documents to them for review before seeking re-classification through Section 702 of the Choice Act. Expenses Enrollment Deposit Applicants who are admitted as undergraduate students are required to remit a nonrefundable deposit of $100 to signify their intention to enroll. All enrolling applicants will receive credit for the $100 deposit toward their tuition and fees. Applicants who are accepted for admission to East Carolina University for the fall semester must deposit the $100 with the university cashier by May 1, or shortly after admission; applicants who are admitted for the spring semester must remit the deposit by November 15. The approval for admission will be tentative until the deposit and all required final academic records are received and reviewed to ensure that admission standards have been met. If the deposit is not received by the deadline, the applicant’s acceptance will be continued only if space in the university is available. Fee Payment Schedule Students will be charged tuition and fees according to the tuition and fee schedule approved by the UNC Board of Governors and the ECU Board of Trustees. They reserve the right to revise the rates at any time found necessary or advisable and without prior notice. Tuition is billed by the semester based on the student’s residency status, classification, campus, and number of registration hours. Tuition is due approximately 1-2 weeks before the first day of classes for each fall and spring semester. A one-time late fee is assessed if tuition is not paid by the published deadline. The university’s academic calendars include the published deadlines for late fee assessment and for cancellation of classes for non-payment and can be assessed at http://www.ecu.edu/fsonline/senate/fscalend.cfm. (Note: Click “Student Application/Processing Calendar at the top right.) No person is allowed to attend class or receive class instruction without being properly registered either for credit or for audit. Distance education courses have a separate tuition and fee schedule. Main campus fall, spring and summer schedules, as well as distance education schedules, are available online at www.ecu.edu/cs-admin/financial_serv/cashier/tufee.cfm. Indebtedness to the University and Returned Checks No degree, diploma, or certificate will be granted or transcript of credits furnished to a student until all financial obligations to the university, other than secured student loans, have been paid. A student may not be permitted to register, to attend classes, or to take final examinations after the due date of any unpaid obligations. A charge will be imposed by the University Cashier’s Office and other university offices for returned checks. Refund Policy Refunding of Tuition and Fees It is to the financial advantage of all students withdrawing, dropping to part-time status, or dropping to a lower block of credit hours, to do so as early in the semester/session as possible. The official withdrawal policy may be found in the academic regulations section of this catalog. Refunds for tuition and required fees (excluding room and board charges which are determined by contractual agreement) will be made as follows for students who withdraw or drop to a lower block of credit hours: Through the first week of classes (five class days starting the first official day of classes for the university) tuition and required fees will be refunded at 100 percent. (Financial aid recipients may be required to repay a portion of their aid if they drop one or more classes during the 100% refund window.) The second week of classes (six to ten consecutive class days) tuition and required fees will be refunded at 75 percent minus a $25 processing fee. The third week of classes (eleven to fifteen consecutive class days) tuition and required fees will be refunded at 50 percent minus a $25 processing fee. The fourth week of classes (sixteen to twenty consecutive class days) tuition and required fees will be refunded at 25 percent minus a $25 processing fee. Beginning with the fifth week of classes (twenty-first consecutive class day) refunds will not be considered. If the student wishes to appeal balances resulting from tuition and fee charges, the process must be initiated in writing to the Tuition Refund Appeals Committee. The written appeal can be submitted to the Cashier’s Office or via email to tuitionappeals@ecu.edu. All refunds are subject to the above noted time limitations and will be based on the difference between the amount paid and the charge for the block of hours for which the student is officially registered. Policy Exceptions There will be no refunds for special course fees after the first five class days of each semester. A separate and extended refund policy exists for federal Title IV financial aid recipients. Generally, students withdrawing from the institution may owe a repayment of all or some portion of the financial aid received. Please refer to financial aid materials or contact the Office of Student Financial Aid. To officially withdraw from the university, a student must give written notice to the Office of the Registrar. Any refunds that a student is entitled to shall first be applied to outstanding financial obligations owed the university. Summer Sessions Refunds for tuition and required fees for 1st and 2nd summer sessions is limited to the first week of classes (five class days starting with the first official day of classes for the university). During this period, students receive 100 percent refunds of tuition and required fees. Refunds for tuition and required fees for 11-week summer session will be made as follows: Through the first week of classes (five class days starting the first official day of classes for the university) tuition and required fees will be refunded 100 percent. The second week of classes (six to ten consecutive class days) tuition and required fees will be refunded at 75 percent minur a $25 processing fee. The third week of classes (eleven to fifteen consecutive class days) tuition and required fees will be refunded at 50 percent minus a $25 processing fee. The fourth week of classes (sixteen to twenty consecutive class days) tuition and required fees will be refunded at 25 percent minus a $25 processing fee. Beginning with the fifth week of classes (twenty-first consecutive class day) refunds will not be considered. Financial Assistance Veterans Administration Educational Payments The Offices of Veterans Administration (VA) and Social Security require a minimum course load of 12 s.h. of required courses per semester (except summer session) for payment of full-time benefits to veterans and eligible dependents. East Carolina University is approved for a student to take up to 56 s.h. of general education courses. After a student receives the 56 s.h., he or she must declare a major either officially or unofficially for the VA. The 56 s.h. will include transfer credits and credits earned on campus. After the student declares a major, benefits will be paid only for courses listed in the catalog under that degree/major program. Substitutions are allowed when the major chairperson gives written approval prior to the student’s taking the course. Students declared academically ineligible will be required to remove their probation before educational benefits can be recertified to the VA. Students may be eligible for an additional allowance under the VA work-study program. The work-study program allows students to perform work for the VA in return for an hourly wage. They may perform outreach services under the supervision of a VA employee, prepare and process VA paperwork, work in a VA medical facility, or other approved activities. Students must be enrolled at three-quarter or full-time rate. Students may be eligible to receive a special allowance for individual tutoring if they enter school at one half-time or more. To qualify, students must have a deficiency in a subject, making the tutoring necessary. There is no entitlement charged for tutorial assistance. Further information is available at the campus Veterans’ Affairs Office (Mendenhall Room 254 or https://registrar.ecu.edu/veterans/. UNC Campus Scholarships The UNC Campus Scholarship program is awarded on financial need and merit to incoming freshmen who are North Carolina residents. The $1,500 scholarship award is designed to assist in the diversification of the university’s undergraduate student body to include the presence of first-generation college students, students from disadvantaged socio-economics backgrounds, and traditionally underrepresented populations on our campus.These scholarships are awarded by internal selection process and do not require an application. National and International Fellowships and Scholarships East Carolina University maintains a website devoted to national and international fellowships and scholarships to familiarize students with the competitive national and international fellowships and scholarships available to selected students intent on pursuing graduate work. The website includes the names of ECU faculty contact persons where identified. These fellowships and scholarships, for the most part, are for terms long enough to ensure completion of the master’s degree, and in some cases to allow work on the doctoral degree. Among the fellowships and scholarships coordinated by this office are the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship, the Marshall Scholarships, the Rhodes Scholarships, the Fulbright Grants, and the Harry S. Truman Scholarships (undergraduate only). Interested students should contact the Office of University Scholarships for more information (in person: G131 Old Cafeteria Complex; by phone: 252-328-5816; or by email: scholarships@ecu.edu). Office of Student Financial Aid Using federal, state and institutional funds, as well as contributions from its many friends and alumni, East Carolina University makes every effort to assist students in locating funds for their education. The staff of the university Office of Student Financial Aid assists students in obtaining funds from the source best suited to the individual’s need. Three main types of financial assistance are available to qualified students: gift aid, consisting of grants and scholarships; long-term educational loans; and part-time employment. Students classified as non-degree auditors, special students, or visitors are not eligible for financial aid. Because the primary aim of the financial aid programs is to provide assistance to students who, without aid, would be unable to continue their education, most of the funds are awarded on the basis of financial need. However, in its efforts to strive for excellence, the university also offers assistance to some talented students based on merit rather than need. The university participates in federal programs which provide funds on the basis of financial need as follows: Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Federal Work-Study Program Federal Direct Stafford Loan Program Federal Direct Parent Loan Program Nursing Student Loan Information pertaining to the application process, types of aid available, and academic requirements may be obtained from the East Carolina University Office of Student Financial Aid and at www.ecu.edu/financial. Office of University Scholarships The goal of the Office of University Scholarships is to provide students and their families with information on both internal and external scholarship opportunities. Scholarships are gifts of money that do not require repayment. Scholarships usually recognize special achievements in academics, talent, and leadership. Some scholarships may also require that students demonstrate financial need. Financial need will be determined by submitting the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Scholarships can come from a variety of sources. Scholarships may be awarded by the Office of University Scholarships and by each of the colleges on our campus. There are scholarships for incoming students, freshmen and transfer students, as well as students currently enrolled at the university. East Carolina University has many scholarships that have been made available through the generous donations of alumni and friends of the university. Scholarship eligibility, criteria, and amounts may change at any time without prior notice. Information pertaining to the scholarships available and the application process may be obtained from the Office of University Scholarships and at www.ecu.edu/universityscholarships. Many scholarship opportunities can be located by visiting the ECU Online Scholarship Management System, ECUAWARD via Pirate Port, or by logging in directly at https://ecu.academicworks.com. Students may also find additional information about discipline/major specific scholarships by contacting the academic department of their intended major or by viewing college Web pages. Interested students should contact the Office of University Scholarships for more information (in-person: G131 Old Cafeteria Complex; by phone: 252-328-5816; or by email: scholarships@ecu.edu). Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 East Carolina University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).