Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advising Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog College of the Arts Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) “Cal State Fullerton’s College of the Arts is an essential part of the creative fabric of Southern California, proudly serving as both an academic and cultural resource. We are a living laboratory for the arts, where success is measured in lines of dialogue, sheets of music and slabs of clay. Our alumni leave lasting legacies by contributing to the vitality of the arts nationally and globally, and can be found in all facets of the thriving art and entertainment industries. Each year, the college enthusiastically opens its doors to more than 40,000 students, campus and community members who attend the hundreds of concerts, exhibitions, workshops, masterclasses, visiting artists’ lectures and performances we present.” Interim Dean Arnold Holland College of the Arts Associate Dean Dave Mickey Dean’s Office Visual Arts 199 657-278-3256 College Website fullerton.edu/arts The College of the Arts is home to more than 2,600 graduate and undergraduate students studying in the School of Music and the Departments of Art and Theatre and Dance. Whether your interest is in visual arts, music, theatre or dance, you will find the College of the Arts has created a dynamic, diverse and distinctive learning environment committed to helping our students succeed in an atmosphere that combines scholarship, creativity, artistic expression and intellectual curiosity. We are a destination of choice for students seeking the highest quality training in the visual and performing arts. In addition to serving our majors, the college is committed to enhancing the artistic awareness of all students. The College of the Arts offers an array of artistic experiences for all Cal State Fullerton students within the broader university liberal arts setting. Students choose to study in our college because they want to work with faculty members who are innovators and leaders in their field. Once here, students have the opportunity to create, rehearse, collaborate and perform in the state-of-the-art Clayes Performing Arts Center and show their work in numerous galleries both on and off campus. Art, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor’s • Art, Art History Concentration, B.A. • Art, Ceramics Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Computer Animation and Game Art Concentration, B.F.A • Art, Creative Photography and Experimental Media Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Drawing and Painting Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Entertainment Art/Animation Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, General Studio Art Concentration, B.A. • Art, Glass Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Graphic and Interactive Design Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Illustration Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Jewelry and Metals Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Sculpture Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Teaching Concentration, B.A. Master’s • Art, Art History Concentration, M.A. • Art, Ceramics Concentration, M.A. • Art, Ceramics Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Crafts (including Jewelry/Metalsmithing and Woodworking) Concentration, M.A. • Art, Crafts (including Jewelry/Metalsmithing and Woodworking) Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Creative Photography and Experimental Media Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Creative Photography Concentration, M.A. • Art, Drawing and Painting Concentration, M.A. • Art, Drawing and Painting Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Exhibition Design Concentration, M.A. • Art, Exhibition Design Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Glass Concentration, M.A. • Art, Glass Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Graphic and Interactive Design Concentration, M.A. • Art, Graphic and Interactive Design Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Illustration Concentration, M.A. • Art, Illustration Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Sculpture Concentration, M.A. • Art, Sculpture Concentration, M.F.A. Minor • Art Minor Certificate • Museum Studies Certificate Music, School of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor’s • Music, Accompanying Concentration, B.M. • Music, Composition Concentration, B.M. • Music, Instrumental Concentration, B.M. • Music, Jazz and Commercial Music Concentration, B.M. • Music, Keyboard Concentration, B.M. • Music, Liberal Arts Concentration, B.A. • Music, Music Education Concentration, Choral Emphasis, B.A. • Music, Music Education Concentration, General Music Emphasis, B.A. • Music, Music Education Concentration, Instrumental Emphasis, B.A. • Music, Music History and Theory Concentration, B.A. • Music, Piano Pedagogy Concentration, B.M. • Music, Voice Concentration, B.M. Master’s • Music, M.A. • Music, M.M. • Music, Music Education Concentration. M.A. • Music, Piano Pedagogy Concentration, M.A. Minor • Music Minor Certificate • Artist Diploma: Professional Certificate in Music Performance Credentials • Music Teaching Credential Theatre and Dance, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor’s • Dance, B.A. • Theatre, Acting Concentration, B.F.A. • Theatre, B.A. • Theatre, Devised Performance/Physical Theatre Concentration, B.F.A. • Theatre, Directing Concentration, B.A. • Theatre, Musical Theatre Concentration, B.F.A. • Theatre, Specialized Studies in Theatre Concentration, Design/Technical Production Emphasis, B.A. Master’s • Theatre Arts, Design and Technical Production Concentration, M.F.A. • Theatre Arts, Directing Concentration, M.F.A. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).