Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Linguistics Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plan Undergraduate Minor Concurrent Undergraduate and Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Contact Information John Levis Professor/Program Chair ling.las.iastate.edu/ jlevis@iastate.edu 515-294-7524 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Linguistics Overview Linguistics is a cross-disciplinary program designed to meet the needs of students interested in various aspects of language—its structure, history, varieties, meanings, and uses. The program includes courses in anthropology, communication disorders, computer science, English, psychology, and speech communication and world languages and cultures, thus providing a multi-disciplinary approach to the study of human language. Courses in linguistics serve as background for students interested in any career that involves working with language, such as teaching English as a first and as a second language, second language studies, speech-language pathology, cross-cultural communication, linguistic anthropology, computational linguistics, and psycholinguistics. In the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, courses in linguistics can be applied as electives or as part of the group requirements. They may also be used in a minor or in a major. Linguistics majors earn a Bachelor of Arts. Learning Outcomes Students who major in Linguistics at Iowa State University will be able to display extensive knowledge of the primary areas of linguistics, especially syntax and phonology/phonetics. identify and analyze descriptive and prescriptive approaches to language description. display a sophisticated understanding of the hierarchical and systematic nature of human language. demonstrate skills in the intersection of language analysis and technology. develop methodological skills for carrying out linguistic analysis, including analyzing organized and unorganized linguistic data. conducting research, including carrying out literature searches and reviews, formulating testable questions, developing protocols for collecting data, and drawing conclusions based on research goals. formulating effective linguistic arguments in spoken and written form. display understanding of the ways languages change over time by appealing to examples of change in at least three languages. Linguistics Degree Requirements Majors in linguistics complete a minimum of 36 hours in linguistics with a grade of C or better in each linguistics course. Courses specifically required are: LING 119 Introduction to World Languages 3 LING 120 Computers and Language 3 LING 207 Introduction to Symbolic Logic 3 LING 219 Introduction to Linguistics 3 LING 220 Descriptive English Grammar 3 LING 371 Phonetics and Phonology 3 LING 413 Psychology of Language 3 LING 420 History of the English Language 3 LING 437 Grammatical Analysis 3 In addition, linguistics majors must choose 9 credits of elective courses. Discuss choices with the advisor. Suggested areas of further study are: Communication Disorders LING 275 Introduction to Communication Disorders 3 LING 286 Communicating with the Deaf 3 LING 471 Language and Reading Development in Children 3 CMDIS 480B Topics in Communication Disorders: Articulation and Phonological Disorders 3 Computers and Linguistics LING 320 Topics in Linguistic Structure 3 LING 331 Theory of Computing 3 LING 410 Language as Data 3 Second Language Studies ENGL 322 Language and Society 3 ENGL 324 Introduction to Teaching ESL Literacy 3 ENGL 325 Teaching Methods for ESL Learners: Oral Communication Skills 3 LING 425 Second Language Learning and Teaching 3 Sociolinguistics and Language LING 305 Language, Thought and Action 3 ENGL 319 Studies in Language and Diversity 3 ENGL 322 Language and Society 3 COMST 325 Nonverbal Communication 3 LING 422 Women, Men, and the English Language 3 Spanish Linguistics LING 351 Introduction to Spanish-English Translation 3 LING 352 Spanish Pronunciation 3 LING 354 Introduction to Spanish-English Interpretation 3 LING 462 Contrastive Analysis of Spanish/ English for Translators 3 LING 463 Contemporary Spanish Linguistics 3 Additional courses in linguistics may include ANTHR 309 and special topics offered through LING 319 and 320, which are repeatable for different topics. They also include courses for study abroad, especially LING 395, and independent studies through LING 490. Majors in linguistics must show proficiency in a second language equivalent to that achieved after two years of university-level study. Alternatively, majors in linguistics can demonstrate university-level study in two other languages of at least one year each. Communication Proficiency requirement: According to the university-wide Communication Proficiency Grade Requirement, students must demonstrate their communication proficiency by earning a grade of C or better in ENGL 250. ENGL 150 Critical Thinking and Communication 3 ENGL 250 Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition 3 or ENGL 250H Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition: Honors LIB 160 Introduction to College Level Research 1 Continuing Communication Proficiency is based on one course from ENGL 314, a WLC 370-379 course, or a CL ST 370-379 course. For information about using linguistics courses in an interdisciplinary studies major, see Liberal Arts and Sciences, Cross-Disciplinary and Interdisciplinary Studies. LAS majors require a minimum of 120 credits, including a minimum of 45 credits at the 300/400 level. Students in all ISU majors must complete a three-credit course in U.S. diversity and a three-credit course in international perspectives. Check (http://www.registrar.iastate.edu/courses/div-ip-guide.html) for a list of approved courses. Linguistics, B.A. Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 150 3 LING 101 1 LIB 160 1 Humanities Choice 3 World Language/Elective 4 Math Choice 3 LING 119 3 PSYCH 101 3 LING 120 3 World Language/Elective 4 Natural Science Choice 3 17 14 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 250 3 LING 371 3 LING 219 3 World Language 202 4 ANTHR 201 3 LING 220 3 Humanities Choice 3 Humanities Choice 3 World Language 201 4 Social Science Choice 3 16 16 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits LING 309 3 LING 207 3 LING 437 3 LING 413 3 ENGL 305, 314, or WLC 370-378 3 LING 420 3 Natural Science Choice 3 Natural Science Choice 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 15 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits LING Area of Concentration 3 LING Area of Concentration 3 U.S. Diversity 3 Electives 10 Electives 8 14 13 Undergraduate Minor in Linguistics Minors in linguistics are individually tailored to the interests of the student, who consults with the linguistics advisor to develop the minor program of study. All minors must have a minimum of 15 credits in linguistics, of which 6 must be in courses numbered over 300. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. All programs must include LING 219 Introduction to Linguistics. Minor in TESL (Teaching English as a Second Language) Minor in Teaching English as a Second Language (Minor in TESL) is for undergraduate students. The Minor in TESL provides concentrated coursework that prepares students to teach English to nonnative speakers of English, either in community programs in the United States or in an overseas location. Students from any program may complete the minor without further studies in linguistics. For more information, please contact Taylor Anne Barriuso, Linguistics Undergraduate Advisor. Concurrent B.A. in Linguistics and M.A. in TESL/Applied Linguistics A concurrent B.A. in Linguistics and M.A. in TESL and Applied Linguistics offers well-qualified students the opportunity for accelerated study, achieving both degrees within a 5-year time frame. A student enrolled in this program pursues a graduate M.A. degree while simultaneously completing the requirements for the B.A. in Linguistics. Completing the concurrent degree program would enable students to enter the workforce one year earlier than through the traditional M.A. degree pathway. Up to six credits can be double-counted toward the requirements for both degrees. Students applying for the concurrent degree program should be motivated, focused, and able to handle a 16+ credit hour/semester schedule. Eligibility (all qualifications must be met to apply): A minimum 45 credits in undergraduate program complete Two years of ISU foreign language study or bilingualism demonstrated by an approved language test (completed or in progress) At least 12 credits of Linguistics courses completed with a major GPA of 3.2 or higher, A minimum cumulative ISU GPA of 3.0 Timeline Students should know by the middle of their sophomore year if they are interested in pursuing the concurrent program. We recommend that students plan ahead, and notify the undergraduate linguistics adviser as soon as they know of their intent to apply for the concurrent degree; if possible, the linguistics adviser should be notified of intent to pursue the concurrent degrees by the end of the 4th semester. Students should apply for concurrent enrollment by the end of the 5th semester of study (and no later than the end of the 6th semester) by filing the Request for Concurrent Enrollment form from the Graduate College and submitting the application materials (listed below). If accepted into the concurrent enrollment program, students should begin taking graduate courses (by the onset of the fourth year of study). Students accepted into the concurrent enrollment program will continue to work with the undergraduate linguistics adviser until the BA degree requirements are met. By the onset of the fifth year of study, students should have identified an area for their thesis/creative component and establish a program of study committee (including a major professor). Students become full-time graduate students upon acceptance into the concurrent degree program. Students are eligible for research assistantships upon entry into the concurrent degree program, although it should be noted that these opportunities are rare. Student are eligible to apply for a teaching assistantship once all requirements for the BA degree are met; TA selection will follow the standard procedures for the department (including GRE scores). How to Apply The following components make up your application: Fill out the Request for Concurrent Enrollment form from the Graduate College. Write a statement of purpose, usually 1-2 pages, explaining why you want to pursue the M.A. degree. Obtain three letters of recommendation. Create a curriculum plan with the undergraduate linguistics adviser, who works closely with members of the graduate faculty. Writing sample (which can be a paper written for an undergraduate course at ISU). Submit your materials by e-mail to Teresa Smiley in the Graduate English Office at englgrad@iastate.edu. GRE scores (not required for initial application; required if applying for a teaching assistantship). The admission criteria are generally the same as those required for all graduate students in the department. Application materials are reviewed by the graduate faculty in linguistics, the department’s Director of Graduate Education (DOGE), and the department chair; their recommendations are forwarded on to the ISU Graduate College. BA in Linguistics 120 credits 45 credits at 300+ 36 credits in major (6 graduate credits can double count with graduate degree requirements) 9 credits English communication (such as ENGL 314 Technical Communication) 12-16 credits of foreign language 29 credits in general education: 9 in A&H, 9 in SS, 8 in NS, 3 in math Possible linguistics electives: LING 305, 275, 286, 309, 318, 319, 320, 322, 324, 325, 422, 425, 300-level Spanish LING courses MA in TESL/Applied Linguistics **6 credits (including 510) can count as an elective in the BA degree Graduate Minor A graduate minor in linguistics permits students to investigate various aspects of linguistics, emphasizing the ability to think about language in a systematic and disciplined way and to apply the methods of the field to research problems in their own disciplines. Graduate courses for the minor may be cross-listed with courses in Anthropology, Communication Disorders, Computer Science, English, Psychology, and World Languages and Cultures. For the master’s degree, a declared minor consists of 9 credits in linguistics including two foundation courses: LING 511 Introduction to Linguistic Analysis 3 One of the following: 3 LING 514 Sociolinguistics LING 527 Discourse Analysis LING 537 Corpus Approaches to Grammatical Analysis And one elective from the list of courses approved for graduate credit 3 Total Credits 9 For the Ph.D. degree, the minor consists of 12 credits in linguistics including: LING 511 Introduction to Linguistic Analysis 3 LING 537 Corpus Approaches to Grammatical Analysis 3 And two electives from the list of courses approved for graduate credit 6 Total Credits 12 Additional courses beyond those listed below may be used as electives. The chair of the supervisory committee can provide information about these. At least one member of the linguistics faculty will serve on a student’s program of study committee. A list of faculty members may be obtained from the Linguistics program website. Ph.D. candidates will write one section of the preliminary examination on an area of linguistics. Students in Teaching English as a Second Language/Applied Linguistics are not eligible for a graduate minor in linguistics. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.