Skip to Content Skip Navigation Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Directory Libraries ﻿QUICK LINKS ﻿MyUSU ﻿SEARCH General Catalog Close search﻿ Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search﻿ × USU CatalogOpen main menu﻿ ﻿ Back Open search Courses Programs/Degrees Back Programs/Degrees Programs/Degrees Sorted Alphabetically Programs/Degrees Sorted by College and Department Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate Certificates Graduate Majors Doctoral Programs Departments Colleges Back College Caine College of the Arts College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Science Emma Eccles Jones College of Education and Human Services Jon M. Huntsman School of Business S.J. and Jessie E. Quinney College of Natural Resources School of Graduate Studies General Education Back General Education General Education General Education Requirements Breadth American Institutions (BAI) Breadth Creative Arts (BCA) Breadth Humanities (BHU) Breadth Life Sciences (BLS) Breadth Physical Sciences (BPS) Breadth Social Sciences (BSS) Communications Literacy (CL1 and CL2) Quantitative Literacy (QL) Depth Education (University Studies) Depth Education (University Studies) Requirements Communications Intensive (CI) Depth Humanities and Creative Arts (DHA) Depth Life and Physical Sciences (DSC) Depth Social Sciences (DSS) Quantitative Intensive (QI) Graduation Undergraduate Degree Requirements Transfer Students General Education Requirements for Transfer Students Exceptions to General Education Breadth Requirements Calendars Back Calendars Spring 2022 Spring 2022 Registration Calendar Spring 2022 Final Examination Schedule 2021-2022 Academic Calendar Summer 2022 Summer 2022 Registration Calendar 2022-2023 Academic Calendar Fall 2022 Fall 2022 Registration Calendar 2022-2023 Academic Calendar Other Calendars Calendar of University Events 2021-2022 Academic Calendar 2020-2021 Academic Calendar 2019-2020 Academic Calendar Archived Catalogs Policies/Other ﻿Quick Links ﻿ ﻿Back Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Directory Libraries ﻿MyUSU Utah State University Catalog Contact Us Taggart Student Center Room 246 1600 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322-1600 Email: catalog@usu.edu Phone: (435) 797-1116 Additional Information About Utah State University Academic Honesty/Integrity Administration and Faculty Archived Catalogs Disclaimer Library Statewide Campuses & AIS Student Support Services Registrar’s Office Information Academic and Registration Calendars How to Register Tuition and Payment Apply for Graduation USU Commencement How to Transfer Registrar’s Office Homepage Contact USU Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Alternate Formats Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. Learn moreI agree ﻿Back to top of the page Utah State University May 30, 2022 2022-2023 General Catalog Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs College & Dept. Info. Policies & Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home Departments Programs Courses Student and Enrollment Services Schedule of Classes (external link) Campus Maps Disclaimer Archived Catalogs General Education Requirements University Honors Program Fall Semester 2022 Final Examination Schedule HELP 2022-2023 General Catalog 2022-2023 General Catalog Welcome The Utah State University General Catalog is the official source for academic programs and courses, as well as policies and requirements. The catalog is updated annually to provide students with the most up-to-date listing of available courses and program requirements. To view catalogs from previous years, please visit the catalog archive. Students are encouraged to utilize the catalog in planning their path to graduation. USU offers 114 undergraduate degrees and more than 150 graduate programs, as well as undergraduate minors, associate degrees, and certificates. Regardless of the course of study you choose, you will be taught by exceptional faculty whose top priority is your success. At Utah State University, academics come first. By cultivating diversity of thought and culture, and by serving the public through learning, discovery, and engagement, USU stands as one of the nation’s premier student-centered, land-grant and space-grant universities. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 Utah State University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).