Enrollment Services departments are open for in-person and virtual services. Please check the Enrollment Services Update page for hours, service offerings, and contact methods. For the latest campus reopening plans, safety guidelines, and requirements, visit Campus Return. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Links R'Web Request a Transcript Enrollment Verification Schedule of Classes Academic Calendar Course Request System (CRS) Tuition and Fees Catalog UC Riverside The Office of the Registrar Search Home Academic Calendar Overview Plan for Your Final Exams Final Exam Live Search Grades & Records Overview Request a Transcript Enrollment Verification Change Your Information Tuition & Fees Overview Quarterly Fees Miscellaneous Fees Course Materials and Services Fee Part-Time Waiver Refunds Residency for Tuition Purposes Single Document Fee Late Payment Penalties Registering Overview Schedule of Classes Classes Catalog Advising Requirements Course Requisites Plan for Your Final Exams Term Plan Cancellation, Withdrawal, Absence and Readmission Enrollment Adjustments Special Programs Holds Waitlist Information Graduation Guide to Graduation Graduation Application Deadline Degree Audit Degree Audit Plans Diplomas Resources Help Desk About Us Forms Frequently Asked Questions Archives iGrade Course Request System (CRS) Privacy / FERPA FERPA for Students FERPA For Families FERPA for UCR Employees FERPA Disclosure Policies UCR FERPA Policy UCR Home Quick Links R'Web Request a Transcript Enrollment Verification Schedule of Classes Academic Calendar Course Request System (CRS) Tuition and Fees Catalog Breadcrumb UC Riverside Registrar Office Previous Next The Accellion attack impacted University of California (UC), as it previously disclosed in early April. To get the latest information about this event, our response, and available credit protection services, please visit this page: https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/data-security/accellion-notice.html × What Does the Registrar's Office Do? We assist students with registration, help maintain academic records, verify transcripts and assist with course catalog maintenance and class scheduling. The Office of the Registrar delivers accurate, prompt, courteous and consistent services to all students and constituents of UC Riverside. The Registrar takes a leadership role in management of registration, student academic records, course and classroom scheduling, classroom utilization, publications production, and data distribution. Learn more R'Web Self-Service R'Web Self-Service Portal Academic Records Transcripts Verifications FERPA Personal Info Enrollment How To Adjustments Add/Drop Holds Classes Schedule of Classes UCR 2021-22 Catalog Calendar Academic Final Exam Five-Year Forms Readmission Change or Correction of Name For Faculty & Staff CRS | Request Reports | iGrade | iReport | R'Space | FERPA | Data Requests Boost Your Banner Proficiency with Upcoming Courses Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR THE OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-7284 Fax: (951) 827-7368 Email: reghelpdesk@ucr.edu Transcript Helpline: (844) 728-2927 FIND US Disclaimer: This information is accurate and reliable at time of posting, but may change without notice. Please contact the department for the most up-to-date information. UC Riverside complies with the Jeanne Clery Act, and provides safety information and publishes crime statistics for the most recent three-year period. View the full report here. Related Links Highlander One-Stop Shop R'Web Financial Aid Student Business Services Alumni R'Dream Undergraduate Admissions Housing Services Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel