Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] About the University Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Governance Mission and Goals Meaning of Degree Universitywide Student Learning Goals Accreditations and Associations Academic Freedom and Responsibility History of the University Environment of the University The Campus and Its Buildings CSUF Irvine Center Students of the University The Faculty Outstanding Professor Award CSU Fullerton Auxiliary Services Corp. Cal State Fullerton Alumni Association Support Groups Governance Governance on the campus at California State University, Fullerton is the responsibility of the president and his administrative staff. Working closely with the president are a number of faculty and student groups that initiate, review and/or recommend for approval various university programs, policies and procedures. Although the president is vested with the final authority for all university activities, maximum faculty and staff participation in campus decision-making and governance has become traditional. Students also are actively involved, with student representatives included on almost all university, college and departmental committees and policymaking bodies. Mission and Goals Mission Statement Learning is preeminent at California State University, Fullerton. We aspire to combine the best qualities of teaching and research universities where actively engaged students, faculty and staff work in close collaboration to expand knowledge. Our affordable undergraduate and graduate programs provide students the best of current practice, theory and research and integrate professional studies with preparation in the arts and sciences. Through experiences in and out of the classroom, students develop the habit of intellectual inquiry, prepare for challenging professions, strengthen relationships to their communities and contribute productively to society. We are a comprehensive, regional university with a global outlook, located in Orange County, a technologically rich and culturally vibrant area of metropolitan Los Angeles. Our expertise and diversity serve as a distinctive resource and catalyst for partnerships with public and private organizations. We strive to be a center of activity essential to the intellectual, cultural and economic development of our region. Goals To ensure the preeminence of learning To provide high-quality programs that meet the evolving needs of our students, community and region To enhance scholarly and creative activity To make collaboration integral to our activities To create an environment where all students have the opportunity to succeed To increase external support for university programs and priorities To expand connections and partnerships with our region To strengthen institutional effectiveness, collegial governance and our sense of community Meaning of Degree A California State University, Fullerton degree marks the culmination of an enriching multidisciplinary education where students benefit from experiential learning and vibrant co-curricular experiences in a culturally diverse environment. With disciplinary knowledge and critical skills, Titan graduates are well-positioned to emerge as effective and ethical leaders, and productive members in their local communities and the global society. Universitywide Student Learning Goals Undergraduate Student Learning Goals Through campuswide collaboration, CSUF developed a set of Universitywide Learning Goals (UPS 300.003) in May 2014 that were renamed Undergraduate Student Learning Goals in September 2017. Demonstrate intellectual literacy through the acquisition of knowledge and development of competence in disciplinary perspectives and interdisciplinary points of view. Think critically, using analytical, qualitative and quantitative reasoning, to apply previously learned concepts to new situations, complex challenges and everyday problems. Communicate clearly, effectively and persuasively, both orally and in writing. Work effectively as a team member or leader to achieve a broad variety of goals. Evaluate the significance of how differing perspectives and trends affect their communities. Recognize their roles in an interdependent global community. General Education Learning Goals Led by the Senate G.E. Committee, incorporating feedback from diverse campus constituents, CSUF developed a set of General Education: Programmatic Student Learning Goals and Learning Outcomes in spring 2015. Apply their understanding of fundamental concepts, methods and theories in natural sciences and mathematics, arts and humanities, and social sciences. Seek and acquire relevant information and apply analytical, qualitative and quantitative reasoning to previously learned concepts, new situations, complex challenges and everyday problems. Develop ideas and communicate them competently and ethically, verbally or nonverbally, both orally and in writing, in a variety of contexts. Develop skills to collaborate effectively and ethically as leaders and team members. Develop self-awareness, knowledge, intercultural skills and critical reflection to participate ethically and effectively in local communities and global contexts. Graduate Student Learning Goals Led by the Senate G.E. Committee, incorporating feedback from diverse campus constituents, CSUF developed a set of Graduate Student Learning Goals (UPS 300.041) in May 2017. As appropriate to the discipline and the degree program, graduate students should be able to demonstrate: Knowledge, skills and professional dispositions, including higher order competence in disciplinary perspectives and interdisciplinary points of view; The ability to access, analyze, synthesize and evaluate complex information from multiple sources and in new situations and settings; Advanced communication skills; The ability to work independently and in collaboration with others as artists, practitioners, researchers and/or scholars; The ability to apply appropriate methods and technologies to address problems that affect their communities; Social responsibility within diverse communities and in an interdependent global community. Accreditations and Associations fullerton.edu/accreditation California State University, Fullerton is accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC) Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC). Questions about accreditation may be addressed to: WASC Senior College and University Commission 985 Atlantic Avenue, Suite 100 Alameda, CA 94501 Phone: 510-748-9001 Fax: 510-748-9797 Internet: wscuc.org In addition to institutional accreditation, many academic programs at CSUF are accredited by discipline-specific accreditation agencies and associations. A list of these programs is provided on the website of the Office of Assessment and Institutional Effectiveness at fullerton.edu/accreditation/discipline. Academic Freedom and Responsibility The Academic Senate of California State University, Fullerton endorses the American Association of University Professors 2009 Statement of Professional Ethics (University Policy Statement 230.000). History of the University In 1957, Cal State Fullerton became the 12th State College in California to be authorized by the Legislature. The following year a site was designated in northeast Fullerton. It was purchased in 1959, when Dr. William B. Langsdorf was appointed as founding president, the first staff was selected and plans for opening the new college were made. Orange County State College started classes for 452 full- and/or part-time students in September 1959, using leased quarters for its administrative offices on the Fullerton Union High School campus and for its classrooms at Fullerton’s Sunny Hills High School. In the fall of 1960, the college opened classes on its own campus, where it occupied 12 temporary buildings. The name changed to Orange State College in July 1962, to California State College at Fullerton in July 1964, to California State College, Fullerton in July 1968 and to California State University, Fullerton in June 1972. The first permanent building, the six-story Letters and Science Building (now known as McCarthy Hall), was occupied in 1963. Today, there is dramatic evidence of additional, rapid growth. A number of new buildings have been completed, and enrollment has climbed to more than 40,000. Since 1963 the curriculum has expanded to include lower-division coursework, graduate programs including two doctorates, as well as numerous credential and certificate programs. The Donahoe Higher Education Act of 1960 established the California State Colleges as a system under an independent Board of Trustees, redefined the functions of the State Colleges, and related them to both the community colleges and the University of California system. Cal State Fullerton’s presidents and their years of service are: Dr. William B. Langsdorf, 1957-1971 Dr. L. Donald Shields, 1971-1980 Dr. Miles D. McCarthy (acting), 1981 Dr. Jewel Plummer Cobb, 1981-1989 Dr. Milton A. Gordon, 1990-2012 Dr. Willie J. Hagan (interim), 2012 Dr. Mildred García, 2012-2017 Framroze Virjee, 2017-present Environment of the University Fullerton, a city of more than 140,000 inhabitants, is located in North Orange County, about 30 miles southeast of Central Los Angeles. It is part of the Southern California population center and within easy freeway access of all the diverse natural and cultural attractions of this region. Orange County, with an area of 798.3 square miles, is 47th in size of California’s 58 counties, but it is the third-largest county in population (more than 3.1 million) and the sixth-most populous in the nation. Orange County has more than doubled its population over the last four decades, and it will continue to grow in the decades to come. Today, there co-exists an interesting mixture of the old and new economic and lifestyles in Orange County. Underneath the soil, archaeologists and bulldozers uncover traces of the hunting and gathering Native American bands who flourished at least as early as 4,000 years ago in what was a benign and bountiful region. More visible traces remain of the Spanish and Mexican periods and cultures: Mission San Juan Capistrano, which began the agricultural tradition in Orange County, and subsequent adobes from the great land grants and ranches that followed. Additionally, both customs and many names persist from this period and so does some ranching. The architectural and other evidences of the subsequent pioneer period are still quite visible: farmsteads, old buildings from the new towns that were established in the late 1800s, mining operations, and traces of early resort and other types of promotional activities. For about 100 years, farming was the main economic activity with products such as grapes, walnuts, vegetables and oranges replacing the older wheat and cattle ranches. Today, agriculture still is very important. Orange County ranks high among California’s counties in mineral production with its oil, natural gas, sand and gravel, and clay mining and processing activities. The extensive development of the 42 miles of beaches in Orange County and the development of such attractions as the Disneyland Resort, Knott’s Berry Farm, Laguna Festival of Arts and Pageant of the Masters, Honda Center, Angel Stadium, Anaheim Convention Center and Orange County Performing Arts Center continue to make tourism an increasingly important activity. Orange County thrives in a Mediterranean-type climate, with rainfall averaging 14 inches per year, and generally mild days (either freezing or 100-degree temperatures are uncommon) with frequent morning fog during the summer. Both downtown Los Angeles and the Pacific Ocean can be reached by car in half an hour, and mountain and desert recreation areas are as close as an hour’s drive from the campus. The Campus and Its Buildings Once part of a vast orange grove, Cal State Fullerton’s attractively landscaped main campus now consists of approximately 241 acres bounded on the south by Nutwood Avenue, on the west by State College Boulevard, on the north by Yorba Linda Boulevard and on the east by the Orange Freeway (57). The portion of Orange County immediately surrounding the campus is predominantly suburban; it includes housing tracts, apartment complexes, shopping centers and industrial parks. Other educational institutions also are part of the immediate environment. The Southern California College of Optometry opened in the spring of 1973 and later became part of Marshall B. Ketchum University. The campus is just north of Cal State Fullerton. To Cal State Fullerton’s immediate south is Hope International University, a liberal arts school with a Bible emphasis, where students started classes in the fall of 1973. Western State University College of Law occupied its new campus to the immediate west of Cal State Fullerton in January 1975. The Cal State Fullerton campus itself has an efficient urban layout of facilities, developed to serve a predominantly commuting public. The university’s modern buildings were planned so that no student needs more than 10 minutes to go from one class to another. The campus is surrounded with xeriscape landscaping and drought-resistant groundcover, and parking areas. The first permanent building, the Letters and Science Building, was occupied in 1963. This imposing structure, master-planned to serve ultimately as a facility for undergraduate and graduate science instruction and research, has been used to house other programs until they could warrant new facilities of their own. This building is now called Miles D. McCarthy Hall. Since 1963, growth has been rapid. The Performing Arts Center was completed in 1964, the Physical Education Building in 1965, the Library Building in 1966, the Commons in 1967, the Humanities-Social Sciences Building and Visual Arts Center in 1969, William B. Langsdorf Hall (Administration-Business Administration) and the Engineering Building in 1971, the Student Health Center in 1974, the Education-Classroom Building and University Center in 1976, an addition to the Visual Arts Center in 1979, the Jewel Plummer Cobb Residence Halls and the Charles L. and Rachael E. Ruby Gerontology Center in 1988, and the Fullerton Marriott and the Computer Science Building in 1989. The Ruby Gerontology Center was the first building on campus financed solely by contributed funds; the Fullerton Marriott, a full-service hotel, resulted from a joint venture involving the Marriott Corp., the university and the city of Fullerton. An expansion of the Titan Student Union (formerly known as the University Center) and the Titan Sports Complex, featuring the multipurpose 10,000-seat Titan Stadium, baseball pavilion, track and tennis courts, were completed in 1992. The Titan Student Union houses a 1,200-seat pavilion, small theater, food court, pub, bowling alley and conference rooms. The five-story University Hall, with classrooms, faculty offices, and student and academic support services, was occupied in 1993, followed by the two-story Science Laboratory Center in 1994. The Science Laboratory Center was renamed and dedicated as Dan Black Hall in fall 2006. A four-story addition to the university Library was completed in 1996, and the entire complex was dedicated as the Paulina June and George Pollak Library in 1998. The 10-story College Park building on Nutwood Avenue provides additional classrooms and office space for university staff and faculty members. A 71,000-square-foot expansion of the Kinesiology and Health Science Building was completed in 2003. The addition includes the Wellness Center for Successful Aging, practice gymnasium, seminar rooms, faculty offices and a 125-seat lecture hall. A 109,000-square-foot Performing Arts Center opened in January 2006 and was named the Joseph A.W. Clayes III Performing Arts Center in September 2008. The complex features venues that include an 800-seat concert hall, 250-seat thrust-stage theater and a 150-seat black box theater. Three parking structures - completed in 2004, 2006 and 2010 - provide on-campus parking for about 5,500 vehicles. The overall number of parking spaces on campus is nearly 12,000. Steven G. Mihaylo Hall, home of the Mihaylo College of Business and Economics, opened in fall 2008. The five-story, 195,000-square-foot facility provides a state-of-the art learning environment, including technologically advanced classrooms and lecture halls, computer labs, and houses the college’s renowned centers and institutes. Also completed in 2008 was the Student Recreation Center. The two-story, 95,000-square-foot facility features a rock climbing wall, multicourt gymnasium, one of the largest cardio/weight rooms on a West Coast campus, an outdoor leisure and lap pool, multimedia cardio room and indoor track. Cal State Fullerton’s on-campus student-resident population more than doubled to now accommodate 1,900 residents with the completion of a new $143-million residence hall complex in summer 2011. The complex includes the 585-seat Gastronome dining facility, recreational and study facilities on each floor, smart classrooms, a convenience store, laundry and mail facilities, and faculty-in-residence apartments, to name a few. Other new additions to campus in 2010-11 included a new home for University Police - the University Police and Emergency Operations Center, as well as a new and expanded Children’s Center. The new $8.7-million facility, built for the Associated Students Inc. program, offers a program accredited by the National Association for the Education for Young Children. The three-story addition at the southeast corner of the Titan Student Union adds 26,000 square feet and provides gathering space to accommodate the growing student body. The transparent architecture includes a grand staircase that opens up to the lower level. Construction was completed in October 2016. The four- and two-story buildings, formerly occupied by Western State University College of Law, were purchased by CSUF Auxiliary Services Corp. in 2012. Expanding the campus by 3.6 acres and approximately 86,500 square feet of space at the corner of Dorothy Lane and State College Boulevard, university staff and administrators began moving into Titan Hall in late 2016. In the northeast corner of the campus is the Fullerton Arboretum, which was dedicated in the fall of 1979 in a joint venture with the city of Fullerton. The 26-acre botanical garden is a living museum of rare plants from around the world. The ecologically arranged botanical collection depicts habitats from the desert to the tropics. With its ponds, streams and wildlife, it offers a tranquil retreat from urban life. In spring 2006, the university welcomed the opening of the Fullerton Arboretum Visitor Center and the Orange County Agricultural and Nikkei Heritage Museum, the campus’s first “green” building. The Fullerton Arboretum also is home to Heritage House, a restored 19th-century dwelling, and serves as a cultural museum for North Orange County. Cal State Fullerton is one of the most energy-efficient campuses anywhere, and has been since the early 1990s. The university has been honored multiple times by the University of California/California State University Energy Efficiency Partnership Program, including “Best Overall Sustainable Design” awards for the Student Recreation Center and the Fullerton Arboretum Visitor Center and Orange County Agricultural and Nikkei Heritage Museum. The awards recognize reduced use of natural resources during construction and ongoing energy conservation efforts throughout the life of new buildings and major renovations. Water savings, sustainable site development, energy efficiency, materials selection and indoor environmental quality are among the key elements considered in the design, construction and operation of green buildings. The Student Recreation Center achieved a Gold rating from the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Green Building Rating System, which is the nationally accepted benchmark. Mihaylo Hall, the Children’s Center and the University Police building operate at a LEED Silver level. Most notably, the Student Housing complex achieved a rare Platinum LEED rating. The ample freeway and surface street accommodations that approach the main entrance to the university’s campus also provide comparatively easy access to the great and diverse learning resources available in Southern California: many other colleges and universities; museums, libraries and art galleries; zoos; and the wide variety of economic, governmental, social and cultural activities and experiences that may be found in this dynamic and complex region of California and the United States. Information concerning the instructional, laboratory and other physical facilities that relate to the academic program may be obtained from the Office of Facilities Planning and Management. CSUF Irvine Center The CSUF Irvine Center is located at 3 Banting, in the Irvine Spectrum. It serves as a regional center for meeting the higher education needs of central and south Orange County. Academic courses and programs at Irvine are available to all students admitted to Cal State Fullerton through the regular admission process. Applications for admissions to the university are available on the web at calstate.edu/apply. The Irvine Center offers a variety of general education, major and support classes that enable students to complete undergraduate degree programs in a small, personalized environment. Professional degrees are also offered through Extension and include FEMBA, M.S. in Taxation and M.S.W. In addition, Extension offers courses that support a variety of professional degrees, continuing education programs and certificates, workshops, and seminars. The Irvine Center offers 23 smart classrooms with state-of-the-art technology, including three Dell computer labs and a Macintosh lab. In addition, there are two conference rooms, a spacious multipurpose room, open lab, library, bookstore, Titan Student Lounge, fitness center, Student Success Center, and Admissions, Registration and Cashiering/TitanCard. PRactical ADvantage Communications is a student-run public relations and advertising agency at the Irvine Center. With support from faculty advisers, the agency provides opportunities for students to develop and implement advertising and public relations campaigns for local nonprofit and for-profit organizations, as well as for department programs and student organizations at CSUF. The Student Success Team at the Irvine Center provides an array of student services, including academic advisement, financial aid, disability support services, career advising, personal counseling, tutoring, supplemental instruction and student engagement opportunities. The team works closely with CSUF Associated Students Inc. on their sponsored events. Irvine Center Academic Advising works with students as they develop educational plans that support their larger career and life goals, including guidance on course selection and graduation requirements. Supplemental instruction and other learning support services are also available for a limited number of courses. Financial Aid Services at the Irvine Center assists students in the process of applying for both financial aid and other programs to meet educational expenses related to eligible degree and certificate programs. Students at the Irvine Center have many opportunities to be involved in curricular and co-curricular experiences. These experiences foster collaborative relationships, professional success, a vibrant campus life, active civic participation and engaged alumni. A growing array of activities, including ASI Productions, Accounting Society speaker events, Master of Social Work Student Association, Irvine Student Advisory Committee, student newsletter and peer tutoring, are available for students to increase their on-campus involvement. The Irvine Center Library provides information and access to high-quality resources to meet the instructional and research needs of Irvine students, faculty and staff. The facility includes course reserves, study rooms, computer workstations, bibliographic instruction classroom, a reference librarian and an online reference service. Easy access to 100-plus databases, NetLibrary, online library catalog, online chat reference and document delivery are all available to Irvine Center students. For additional information, including campus hours, administration and events, please call 657-278-1600 or refer to the Irvine Center website at fullerton.edu/irvinecampus. Students of the University Much of the distinctive character and learning atmosphere of any campus comes from the nature and vitality of its students. Diversity, the synthesis of academic study with work and family interests, and strong records of participation and achievement are hallmarks of the student body at Cal State Fullerton. The university is primarily a community-based institution, with three on-campus residence facilities. Close to half of CSUF’s students live in Orange County. Seventy-three percent of all students take 12 or more hours of coursework each semester. Of the fall 2017 new freshmen, 91 percent came from California public high schools, 5 percent from California private high schools, and 4 percent came from other states or other countries. Of the fall 2017 new graduate students, 54 percent came from Cal State University campuses, 24 percent came from other California colleges and universities, and another 22 percent from other states or other countries. Total students enrolled in fall 2017 included 11 percent first-time freshmen, 15 percent other lower division, 60 percent upper division, and 14 percent graduate students. About 57 percent of all students were women. The median age of all students was 22; undergraduate students had a median age of 21, while graduate students had a median age of 27. Course offerings during the day and at night provide students with flexibility in their schedules. Most students choose to attend during the daytime. Virtually all upper-division and graduate students had declared a major field of study. About 10 percent of lower-division students were in the process of exploring different fields prior to declaring a major. During the 2016-17 college year, 8,450 undergraduate students received their baccalaureate degrees, 2,038 graduate students received their master’s degrees, and 47 graduates received their Ed.D. or DNP degrees. The Faculty Central to the effectiveness of any institution of higher learning is the quality and dedication of its individual faculty members to teaching and scholarship. In the fall of 2017 there were 843 tenured and tenure-track faculty members and 1,366 lecturers. Almost all of the full-time faculty had some previous college or university teaching experience before coming to Cal State Fullerton. Faculty members also participate in a wide variety of scholarship and creative activities. Ninety-one percent of the tenured and tenure-track faculty have earned their doctoral degrees. Criteria for selection to the faculty include mastery of knowledge in an academic specialty, demonstrated skill and experience in teaching, and continuing interest in scholarly study and research. Retention and promotion criteria also include service to the university and community. Information concerning the faculty may be obtained from Academic Human Resources or Faculty Affairs and Records. Outstanding Professor Award Below are the names of all professors who have received the CSUF Outstanding Professor Award. Those with an asterisk were also honored with the Statewide Outstanding Professor Award, an honor which was conferred annually on two-system faculty members by the Trustees of the California State University until 1995. Year Name Subject 1963-64 Donald Stanley Tull Marketing 1964-65 Miles Duffield McCarthy* Biology 1965-66 Giles Tyler Brown History 1966-67 Gustave Bording Mathieu French/German 1967-68 Norman Townsend- Zellner Economics 1968-69 John Brown Mason Political Science 1969-70 No award given 1970-71 Loh Seng Tsai Psychology 1971-72 Richard C. Gilbert Mathematics 1972-73 Herbert C. Rutemiller Quantitative Methods 1973-74 Fred M. Johnson Physics 1974-75 Willis E. McNelly* English 1975-76 Donald E. Lagerberg Art 1976-77 Sidney Klein Economics 1977-78 Charles G. Bell Political Science 1978-79 Bruce H. Weber Chemistry 1979-80 Michael H. Horn Zoology 1980-81 Donald A. Sears English and Linguistics 1981-82 Joyce E. Pickersgill Economics 1982-83 Carl C. Wamser Chemistry 1983-84 Corinne S. Wood Anthropology 1984-85 Maria C. Linder Chemistry 1985-86 Charles C. Lambert Zoology 1986-87 Glenn M. Nagel Chemistry 1987-88 Harris S. Shultz* Mathematics 1988-89 Warren A. Beck History 1989-90 Roger Nanes Physics 1990-91 Gerald F. Corey Human Services/Counseling 1991-92 Michael H. Birnbaum Psychology 1992-93 David L. Pagni* Mathematics 1993-94 Keith O. Boyum Political Science 1994-95 Carol P. Barnes Elementary and Bilingual Education 1995-96 Mario Martelli Mathematics 1996-97 Frank G. Cummings III Art 1997-98 John A. Olmsted Chemistry 1998-99 George A. Marcoulides Management Science/Information Systems 1999-00 Jane V. Hall Economics 2000-01 Hallie Yopp Slowik Elementary, Bilingual and Reading Education 2001-02 Albert W. Flores Philosophy 2002-03 Steven N. Murray Biological Science 2003-04 Richard L. Wiseman Human Communication Studies 2004-05 Nancy L. Segal Psychology 2005-06 Zvi Drezner Information Systems and Decision Sciences 2006-07 Chandrasekhar Putcha Civil and Environmental Engineering 2007-08 Stella Ting-Toomey Human Communications Studies 2008-09 Mohinder Grewel Electrical Engineering 2009-10 Marcelo Tolmasky Biological Science 2010-11 Martin V. Bonsangue Mathematics 2011-12 John A. Bock Anthropology 2012-13 Sora Park Tanjasiri Health Science 2013-14 No award given 2014-15 Scott Annin Mathematics 2015-16 Robert Istad Music 2016-17 Binod Tiwari Civil and Environmental Engineering CSU Fullerton Auxiliary Services Corp. The CSU Fullerton Auxiliary Services Corp. was established and incorporated as a not-for-profit corporation in October 1959 to provide essential student, faculty and staff services that cannot be provided from state appropriations. It supplements university programs and activities by assisting the university in fulfilling its purposes and in serving the people of the State of California, especially those in the immediate Fullerton area. ASC develops and administers research and educational grants and contracts; conducts retail operations, including bookstore, food service and vending on campus; and administers various educationally-related functions and programs, such as the Artist Village and the purchase of the College Park and Titan Hall buildings. ASC’s overall policies are administered by a board of directors composed of members of the university faculty, administration and students, as well as prominent community leaders. Board of Directors Chair, Robert Hall* Vice Chair, Theresa Harvey* Secretary, Rosalina Davis* Teresa Saldivar* ASC Executive Director ASC Chief Financial Officer CSUF President Provost, Academic Affairs Vice President, Administration and Finance Vice President, Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion Vice President, Information Technology Vice President, Student Affairs Vice President, University Advancement Academic Administrator nominated by the Council of Deans Academic Senate Chair plus three faculty appointees ASI President plus two student appointees *Community Member For a list of officers and board of directors, go to fullerton.edu/asc/_corpgov/board.php. Cal State Fullerton Alumni Association The Cal State Fullerton Alumni Association is a not-for-profit auxiliary organization of the university that represents the university’s more than 265,000 alumni and provides ways for current students and alumni to be involved with campus initiatives and activities. In addition, the association provides students and graduates with networking, educational and social activities. The association provides many programs and services to the entire alumni community, including chapter outreach, alumni communications and a dues-paying membership program. Members receive exclusive benefits and services, such as career-building tools, access to all 23 CSU campus libraries and the Titan Recreation Center, invitations to members-only events, discounts to the Titan bookstore and campus activities, discounted group insurance and more. The most important benefit of being a member of the CSUF Alumni Association, however, is the opportunity to be part of an active and engaged Titan network. The George G. Golleher Alumni House is the focal point of alumni activity on campus where alumni, students, faculty and staff engage in a variety of activities — everything from pre-game barbecues, wine events, retreats, receptions and workshops. Cal State Fullerton students are considered alumni when they have successfully completed 12 units of credit. We invite all students and alumni to participate in alumni association sponsored activities. For more information, please contact 657-278-2586 (ALUM) or visit alumni.fullerton.edu. Support Groups Cal State Fullerton welcomes and encourages the development and activities of volunteer organizations committed to enriching university life. The expertise and efforts of dedicated volunteers enhance the university’s academic excellence. Further information about volunteer opportunities may be obtained from the Office of the Vice President for University Advancement, College Park 850, at 657-278-5287. Art Alliance The Art Alliance is a volunteer organization that encourages excellence in the visual arts. Organized in 1967, the alliance assists in financing gallery exhibitions, participates in the acquisition of campus art works and annually awards scholarships — made possible by its annual dues and other fundraising efforts. Art Alliance hosts special exhibit tours, receptions, and trips to museums and artists’ studios for its members. College Advisory Councils and Boards Many academic departments and colleges are supported by advisory councils and boards, which are composed of community and campus leaders and alumni who are committed to sharing their expertise and providing support to individual colleges within the university. Osher Lifelong Learning Institute For more than three decades, Cal State Fullerton’s learning in retirement program has offered individuals who are retired, semi-retired or approaching retirement age an opportunity to enjoy experiential learning in classes for an active, healthy life. The Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at California State University, Fullerton (OLLI-CSUF) is a nationally recognized, self-supported organization offering a wide range of programs that are created and directed by its many talented members. This organization was founded as Continuing Learning Experience in 1979. For an annual membership fee, OLLI-CSUF members enjoy the university setting and many student privileges. Programs include self-directed study groups, educational lectures, discussion groups, computer education, arts workshops, physical activities, special events, social activities and travel opportunities. Select classes, including Transitions in Retirement Essentials, are open to the public. OLLI-CSUF committees respond to requests of the membership in determining offerings each semester. While members learn from each other, they also learn from community leaders, university professors and other leading authorities. To learn more about OLLI, visit olli.fullerton.edu. Emeriti The Emeriti of California State University, Fullerton is a formal association of all persons awarded emeritus status by the president of CSUF. The emeriti, as an association, exists to promote California State University, Fullerton; to enhance the continuing professionalism of the emeriti; to provide for the fellowship of the members; and awards two student scholarships each year. Through affiliation with the systemwide CSU emeriti organization, California State University Emeritus and Retired Faculty Association, emeriti concerns are presented to all branches of the government and the Chancellor’s Office. Friends of the Fullerton Arboretum Friends of the Fullerton Arboretum supports the 26-acre botanical garden located on the northeast corner of campus. The group coordinates the work of the many volunteers needed to maintain the gardens, programs and events. The group also host tours of the arboretum and Heritage House museum, a turn-of-the-century residence listed in the National Register of Historic Places and the Inventory of California Historic Sites. Through plant sales, facility rentals and special events, Friends of the Fullerton Arboretum contributes operating monies for the arboretum and funds student scholarships. Learn more about the Fullerton Arboretum at fullertonarboretum.org. MAMM Alliance for the Performing Arts The MAMM Alliance is a volunteer group that supports excellence in performing arts programming in the School of Music and the Theatre and Dance Department. Originally organized in 2001 as a foundation in honor of the late philanthropist Marcy Arroues Mulville, the alliance joined Cal State Fullerton in 2006. The alliance’s mission and purpose includes support for productions, guest artist performances, master classes and artist residencies. Its annual dues and fundraising efforts support this mission. Music Associates Music Associates is a volunteer group that supports excellence in the School of Music through funding of student scholarships and performance awards. Since 1968, Music Associates has raised funds through membership dues, private donations and annual fundraising events – Carol Candlelight and Music and Magic. The organization also holds a Concerto/Aria Competition annually. Patrons of the Library Since 1965, the Patrons of the Pollak Library have assisted the library by providing funding for purchases beyond the California state budget allocation. Among the first of the university’s voluntary community support groups, the Patrons are convinced the library is the heart of the university and have been consistent in seeking to help the library better serve students, faculty and the community. As a responsible agent for soliciting and receiving gifts, the Patrons have facilitated many major contributions to enhance the Special Collections and enrich the library’s holdings. The Patrons also operate a book sale center in conjunction with the Emeriti of California State University, Fullerton. The activity of the Patrons is coordinated by a volunteer board of governors elected from its membership of emeriti, current faculty and community members. Membership contributions to the Patrons of the Library support the purchase of books and other materials for the library. The funds also contribute to the development of the Special Collections and sponsor library talks, exhibitions and activities, including field trips to libraries and other cultural venues, lectures by authors and local journalists, and a monthly book discussion group. Reading Educators Guild Graduates who earn a Master of Science in education with a concentration in literacy and reading, and other interested individuals, are eligible for membership in the Reading Educators Guild, one of the oldest alumni support groups on the CSUF campus. Working in close relationship with the Department of Literacy and Reading Education, the guild provides service as a professional development and networking organization for reading educators. The Reading Educators Guild also provides support in a variety of ways, including the awarding of scholarships to graduate students and to children attending the Hazel Miller Croy Reading Center. Throughout the school year, the guild holds various events promoting literacy and effective reading instruction. Titan Athletics Council Cal State Fullerton Athletics continues to reach new heights in the classroom and on the playing field in large part to the strong support from alumni, parents and fans. The Titan Athletics Council was formed to enhance the experiences of our student-athletes and increase private support for the Division I Athletic Program. Sport-specific events and booster clubs have been established to provide unique experiences for supporters to interact with Titan student-athletes. Every gift helps to build a lasting foundation for excellence in Cal State Fullerton Athletics. For more information on how to get involved, make a gift or learn more about Titan Athletics, please visit fullertontitans.com or call 657-278-4516. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).