Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Entrepreneurship Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plan Undergraduate Minor Graduate Programs Graduate Certificate Contact Information Union Pacific Undergraduate Programs Office 1200 Gerdin Business Building ivybusiness.iastate.edu undergrad@iastate.edu 515-294-8300 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Business > Entrepreneurship Success in entrepreneurship requires a broad base of conceptual knowledge, personal skills, and competencies. The required courses in the major provide a variety of rich developmental experiences that include applied learning, case analysis, research projects, team-based active learning projects, and guest speakers, in addition to traditional classroom lectures and discussions. The Entrepreneurship major places a strong emphasis on written and oral communication skills, teamwork, creativity, leadership, and personal initiative. Undergraduate Major in Entrepreneurship For undergraduate curriculum in business, major in entrepreneurship. The Department of Management and Entrepreneurship offers a major in Entrepreneurship. Students will complete the general education requirements (including business foundation courses), business core requirements for the Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degree, and 18 additional credits in the major. The Entrepreneurship major is designed to prepare students for the field of entrepreneurship. Upon graduation, students will be prepared to identify and exploit business opportunities, start their own business, or lead venture-creation and innovative initiatives at established for-profit and non-profit organizations. The Entrepreneurship Major rests on three pillars: Business Startup and Small Business Management. The major focuses on starting and managing new and small businesses, including family businesses, which present different challenges that require knowledge of various models of leadership, market research, fundraising, risk management, and other activities with increasingly digital components. Leadership and Innovation. Today's highly sought-after employees are those with entrepreneurial mind and skill sets that allow them to create, lead, and contribute to innovative projects and initiatives within their organizations. Social Entrepreneurship. A major emphasis is given to managing non-profit ventures to initiate and support positive social and environmental changes. Entrepreneurship principles and tools have proven their relevance and value for both small and large non-profit ventures and organizations. Thus, this major prepares students who are interested in making a difference by supporting positive social and environmental causes. The Entrepreneurship Major includes a wide range of opportunities for experiential learning through elective courses and offers a variety of robust extracurricular activities through collaboration with the Pappajohn Center for Entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship is also an attractive second major for students with interests in any other business field. Students majoring in Entrepreneurship are not permitted to take Entrepreneurship as a minor. For more information on the undergraduate major in Entrepreneurship, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/entrepreneurship/ Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, undergraduate students majoring in Entrepreneurship will: Be effective communicators Be effective collaborators Be problem solvers Understand business concepts Recognize ethical and legal responsibilities to organizations Curriculum: In addition to the basic business degree requirements (https://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofbusiness/#curriculuminbusinesstext), Entrepreneurship majors are required to complete 18 credit hours of entrepreneurship or management department-approved courses. Included in these 18 credits are four required courses: Required Courses (12 credits): ENTSP 313 Feasibility Analysis and Business Planning 3 ENTSP 320 Corporate Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Technology Management 3 ENTSP 410 Social Entrepreneurship 3 ENTSP 480 Applied Entrepreneurship: Executing New Ventures and Projects 3 Elective Courses (6 credits): Select two courses from the following list: ENTSP 367 International Entrepreneurship 3 ENTSP 430X Real-time Case Study of an Ames Entrepreneurial Startup 3 ENTSP 461X Entrepreneurship and Accounting Information 3 ENTSP 431 Small Business Finance Decisions 3 ENTSP 454 Entrepreneurial Marketing 3 MGMT 381X Managing Family Businesses 3 MGMT 471 Personnel and Human Resource Management 3 MGMT 472 Management of Diversity 3 ACCT 383 Intermediate Managerial Accounting 3 ACCT 416 Business Law 3 FIN 310 Corporate Finance 3 FIN 435 Venture Capital, Private Equity, and Mergers and Acquisitions 3 MKT 342 Foundation Of Personal Selling 3 MKT 362 Digital Marketing 3 MKT 361 Social Media Marketing Strategy 3 MKT 447 Consumer Behavior 3 SCM 340 Project Management 3 SCM 466 Global Trade Management 3 AESHM 474 Entrepreneurship in Human Sciences 3 AESHM 476CX Entrepreneurship Studio: Creating an Online Business 3 DES 230 Design Thinking 3 DSN S 340X Design Entrepreneurship 3 ECON 234 Small Business Management 3 ECON 334 Entrepreneurship in Agriculture 3 ECON 383X Economics of Innovation 3 LD ST 370 Special Topics * 3 * Only sections of LD ST 370 with a topic of "Leadership, Entrepreneurship, and Innovation" may count as an elective for the major. Additionally, only 3 credits of LD ST 370 may count towards the entrepreneurship major electives. The X designation after a course number indicates this is an experimental course offered by the Department. Although in an experimental phase, these courses are open for registration just the same as permanent courses listed in the course catalog and count as elective choices in the major. Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minors taken outside the Ivy College of Business. Entrepreneurship, B.S. Sample 4-Year Plan (Your plan may differ) Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits BUSAD 102 or 103 1 ECON 102 3 ECON 101 3 STAT 226 3 COM S 113 3 US Diversity# 3 ENGL 150 3 ACCT 284 3 MATH 150 3 ENGL 250^ 3 LIB 160 1 BUSAD 203 1 14 16 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits ACCT 285 3 PHIL 230 3 SP CM 212 or 312 3 ACCT 215 3 ENTSP 310 3 MGMT 371 3 Natural Science 3 Global/International Perspective@ 3 MATH 151 3 HUM/SOC SCI 3 15 15 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits ENTSP 313 3 ENTSP 320 3 Business Core Courses 6 ENTSP 410 3 General Electives 6 Business Core Courses 6 HUM/SOC SCI 3 15 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits ENTSP 480 3 MGMT 478* 3 ENTSP Elective 3 ENTSP Elective 3 Global/International Perspective@ 3 HUM/SOC SCI 3 ENGL 302 3 General Electives 6 Business Core Course 3 General Elective 2 17 15 Total Credits: 122 @ Courses in these requirements may also be used as Global Perspective. ^ Students are encouraged to register for sections of ENGL 250 that have topics focused on entrepreneurship and innovation. # US Diversity courses may be used to satisfy HUM/SOC SCI. * Requires completion of all core courses except MGMT 372 plus senior standing. Students must be admitted to the professional program in business to major in entrepreneurship. The requirements to enter the professional program are: 1. Completion of at least 30 credits, Foundation Courses, ENGL 150, and all ENGL 101/99 courses if required. 2. A minimum GPA of 2.50 either cumulative or in the Foundation Courses. Early admission is allowed for Honors-eligible students. (See your advisor for specific information) Graduation Requirements: 1. Grade of “C” or higher in at least 30 credits of Core and Major courses. 2. 42 credits of 300+ level courses from a four-year institution. 3. 50% of required Business courses must be earned at ISU. 4. At least 32 credits and the LAST 32 credits must be earned at ISU (exceptions for study abroad and internship may be requested). 5. 122 Credits minimum and a Cumulative GPA of at least 2.00 with no quality point deficiencies. 6. A grade of C or better in ENGL 250 required, and also in one other required ENGL course. 7. All 300-level and higher business credits must be earned at a four-year college. 8. Multiple business majors must have at least 15 distinct credits in each of the major requirements; when applicable, one course can be shared between business majors; see your advisor regarding multiple business degree requirements. Undergraduate Minor in Entrepreneurship An Entrepreneurship minor for non-Entrepreneurship majors is also available. This interdepartmental undergraduate minor in Entrepreneurship is available to all undergraduate students at Iowa State University. The minor requires 15 credits from an approved list of courses, including at least 6 credits in courses numbered 300 or above taken at Iowa State University with a grade of C or higher. The minor must include 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Students must follow college-specific rules in selecting courses for the minor. The college representatives to the supervisory committee for the minor will be responsible for advising students in their college, and will inform students about the details of the college rules. Students with declared majors have priority over students with declared minors in courses with space constraints. Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minors taken outside the Ivy College of Business. Non-business students with an Entrepreneurship minor are not permitted to major in Entrepreneurship. Business students interested in Entrepreneurship may choose to major in Entrepreneurship (https://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofbusiness/entrepreneurship/#undergraduatemajortext), or pursue the Entrepreneurship minor. For more information on the undergraduate minor in Entrepreneurship, please visit: https://catalog.iastate.edu/interdisciplinaryprograms/minor/entrepreneurship Graduate Programs Ph.D. in Business and Technology The doctoral specialization in entrepreneurship (ENTSP) prepares students to conduct and publish scholarly research in entrepreneurship, including focus on new business ventures, entrepreneurs, innovation, and technology. In addition to curriculum in these core areas, students will also take courses in research methods and the closely-related areas of management, including strategy, organizational behavior, and human resources. The goal of this program is to prepare students to compete for tenure-track positions at leading research universities in the United States and abroad. As a doctoral candidate, students will learn how to conduct impactful research, and they are expected to develop a research pipeline and publish their work in top academic journals before entering the job market. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, PhD students will be able to: Understand and advance knowledge Create knowledge through original research Teach effectively in an institution of higher education For more information about the PhD program with a specialization in Entrepreneurship, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/phd/phd-entrepreneurship-and-management/ Graduate Certificate A graduate certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation offers post-undergraduate students the opportunity to learn the basics of starting a business. The certificate requires 4 courses (12 credits). The two required core courses are offered online by the Ivy College of Business. Elective courses are available across campus. The graduate certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation focuses on strategies and resources for launching new ventures and helps students understand the role of innovation in entrepreneurship. This interdisciplinary certificate provides a solid foundation in entrepreneurship and innovation through required core courses ENTSP 566 Entrepreneurship and New Venture Startup and MGMT 583 Formulating and Implementing Innovation Strategies. At the same time, the program enables students to follow their own interests through electives offered by partners across campus. For more information about the graduate certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/ei-certificate/ Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.