Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Occupational Safety Certificate Select a section... Overview Requirements Contact Information Steven A. Freeman, Director Lindsay Frueh, Academic Adviser abe.iastate.edu/home/certificate-in-occupational-safety/ lindsay@iastate.edu 515-294-5189 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Agriculture and Life Sciences > Occupational Safety Certificate Undergraduate Certificate in Occupational Safety The undergraduate certificate in Occupational Safety is designed to meet the needs of undergraduate students who are planning a career with management responsibilities (including safety), but are not planning on careers as safety professionals. This Certificate provides them with desired professional development and recognition of their increased professional knowledge and skills in the field of Occupational Safety. Working professionals who have discovered that their career path has resulted in an increased focus on occupational safety, but do not have formal educational training in safety will also benefit from this structured safety curriculum. This certificate program prepares professionals, regardless of discipline, to effectively meet expected occupational safety responsibilities. A professional with an Iowa State University Occupational Safety certificate will strengthen a company's ability to protect their workers from injuries and illnesses. This undergraduate certificate provides a way to give formal recognition of focused study in occupational safety that is less comprehensive than what is required for an undergraduate major. The Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering, with its nationally ranked education programs, is pleased to offer this Occupational Safety Certificate program to undergraduate students, graduate students, and working professionals. This certificate program is available on campus or entirely online via web-based interactions and streaming media. 20 Credits required. Students complete the following 14 credits of core courses: TSM 270 Principles of Injury Prevention and Safety 3 TSM 370 Occupational Safety 3 TSM 371 Occupational Safety Management 2 TSM 372 Legal Aspects of Occupational Safety and Health 2 TSM 470 Industrial Hygiene: Physical, Chemical, and Biological Hazards 3 TSM 493D Workshop in Technology: Occupational Safety 1-4 The remaining six credits will selected from the following: TSM 376 Fire Protection and Prevention 3 TSM 471 Safety Laboratory 1 TSM 477 Risk Analysis and Management 3 TSM 393F Topics in Technology: Agricultural Safety and Health 1-4 H S 105 First Aid and Emergency Care 2 H S 110 Personal and Consumer Health 3 H S 305 Instructor's First Aid and Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation 2 I E 271 Applied Ergonomics and Work Design 3 A minimum of 9 credits applied towards the certificate cannot be used to meet any other departmental, college, or university requirement. Courses taken for the certificate cannot be taken pass not pass. A grade of a 2.0 or better is required in each individual course applied towards the certificate. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.