Skip to Content Skip to main content Search X Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines ﻿ Search ﻿ Menu Academic Catalog eCourseware umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost’s Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College eCourseware Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Administrative Support President’s Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online ﻿Instagram ﻿Facebook ﻿twitter ﻿Youtube ﻿Linkedn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance…” 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct. University of Memphis May 31, 2022 UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog Select a Catalog Online Catalogs UOFM 2022-2023 UNDERGRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UOFM 2022-2023 GRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog * [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs College and Department Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home About Graduate School About Graduate Catalog APPLY NOW! Courses Degree Programs Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s Programs Academic Regulations Academic Services Admission Regulations Minimum Graduate Degree Requirements Expenses Faculty and Staff Resources Research Resources University Calendar Catalog Archives My Portfolio HELP UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Computer Science, (MS) Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Return to: Degree Programs Master of Science Admission Requirements GRE scores. Two letters of recommendation. An undergraduate degree with a minimum GPA of 2.5 on a 4.0 scale. A minimum score of 550 on the paper-based TOEFL, or 79 on the internet-based TOEFL, or 6 on IELTS (for students whose native language is not English). A statement of purpose. Prerequisites One year (8 credit hours) of calculus and one semester (3 credit hours) of linear algebra (Students without the calculus and/or linear algebra prerequisites may be admitted on an individual basis, but any deficiency must be corrected within their first semester.) Satisfactory completion of the following courses (or their equivalents): COMP 1900, 2150, 2700, and 3410 (None of these courses may be used to fulfill degree requirements). Program Requirements Satisfactory completion of 33 credit hours of graduate course work and a passing grade on a comprehensive examination, both approved by the department. The course work must include the core requirements and either a Master’s project or a Master’s thesis. At least 27 credit hours of course work must be from the 7/8000 level and at most 6 of the hours may be from any combination of COMP 6901 , COMP 6911 , COMP 7901 , COMP 7980 and/or COMP 7996 . Core Requirement Four courses must be completed within the first 27 hours of credit in the program, unless an extension is granted by the student’s advisor. At least three core courses must be completed with a grade of B- or better. COMP 7012 - Fndtns/Software Engr COMP 7212 - Operating/Distrib Sys COMP 7612 - Foundations of Computing COMP 7712 - Algorithms/Prob Solv Project/Thesis NOTE: Theses must follow the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide at least 3 credit hours of COMP 7996 - Thesis ** or at least 3 credit hours of COMP 7980 - Master’s Project The following courses may not be used to satisfy degree requirements COMP 6001 - Intro to Python Programming COMP 6005 - Web Design/Development COMP 6014 - Intro Java Programming COMP 6030 - Desgn/Anlys Algorithms COMP 6040 - Programming Languages COMP 6270 - Operating Systems COMP 6601 - Models Of Computation COMP 7960 - Sem Teaching/Res/Consult COMP 8960 - Sem Teaching/Res/Consult Retention Students must maintain a GPA of at least a 3.0 to continue in the program. Note Students who are requesting credit transfer from another graduate program must submit an application during the first semester in the program. The application will be evaluated by the student’s advisor and the graduate coordinator in order to determine the number of credits that can be transferred towards completion of the degree requirements. Courses from other departments may also be used to satisfy degree requirements, if relevant and approved by the academic advisor prior to enrollment in the courses. The number of credit hours transferred is limited by the Graduate School. Return to: Degree Programs Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 University of Memphis. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).