Skip to Content Skip to main content Search X Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines ﻿ Search ﻿ Menu Academic Catalog eCourseware umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost’s Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College eCourseware Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Administrative Support President’s Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online ﻿Instagram ﻿Facebook ﻿twitter ﻿Youtube ﻿Linkedn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance…” 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct. University of Memphis May 31, 2022 UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog Select a Catalog Online Catalogs UOFM 2022-2023 UNDERGRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UOFM 2022-2023 GRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog * [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs College and Department Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home About Graduate School About Graduate Catalog APPLY NOW! Courses Degree Programs Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s Programs Academic Regulations Academic Services Admission Regulations Minimum Graduate Degree Requirements Expenses Faculty and Staff Resources Research Resources University Calendar Catalog Archives My Portfolio HELP UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Mathematical Sciences - Applied Mathematics Concentration, (MS) Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Return to: Degree Programs MS Degree Program Program objectives are (1) development of thorough background in mathematical sciences, including retention and integration of core knowledge; (2) development of research skills in mathematics; and (3) development of interdisciplinary opportunities and good oral and written communication skills. General Program Prerequisites An undergraduate degree with a major in mathematics or statistics is required. The minimum GPA is 2.5 on a 4.0 scale. Students whose major was not in mathematics or statistics will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Letters of recommendation recommendation need to be submitted upon request. IELTS or TOEFL scores are required for students whose native language is not English. General Program Requirements Satisfactory completion of 33 credit hours of graduate course work in a program approved by the department is required. Not more than 9 hours of course work at the 6000 level can be applied to the degree. At least 24 credit hours of course work have to be at the 7000 level or higher. At least 21 credit hours of course work have to be earned from courses offered by the Department of Mathematical Sciences. Not more than three credit hours from graduate level seminars can be used to satisfy degree requirements. The courses MATH 6050 , MATH 6051 , MATH 7281 , MATH 7282 , MATH 7383 , MATH 7384 , MATH 7385 , MATH 7391 , and MATH 7601 can only be used to satisfy degree requirements in the Teaching of Mathematics concentration. A passing grade on a comprehensive examination is required. Students may choose a thesis or non-thesis option. Non-thesis Option Under this option the comprehensive examination consists of the student preparing and giving a master’s presentation with a short, written summary on the topic of an independent study project, carried out under the guidance of a faculty member. The topic of the project must be approved in advance by a designated committee of graduate faculty. The master’s presentation includes the opportunity for questions and is given before the committee of graduate faculty charged with assessing the satisfactory completion of the comprehensive examination requirement. An acceptable alternative to the master’s presentation requirement is the satisfactory performance on the Ph.D. qualifying exams. A performance on these exams deemed satisfactory at the master’s level will be counted as passing the comprehensive examination. Thesis Option Each student must identify a thesis advisor, enroll in at least three credit hours of MATH 7996 and submit a written thesis acceptable to the student’s advisory committee. A student must present and defend the thesis before the advisory committee. The oral defense of the thesis will encompass material contained in the thesis and learned during course work and will count as the comprehensive examination. Up to six credit hours of MATH 7996 can be used to satisfy degree requirements. Note: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Specific Degree Requirements Applied Mathematics Concentration To ensure foundational knowledge, several 6000-level courses are required. If the corresponding 4000-level cognate of a required 6000-level course was taken for credit before, the 6000-level course need not be taken again. For that course the requirement is considered satisfied. The following 6000-level courses are required: MATH 6242 - Linear Algebra Two of the following: MATH 6350 - Intro Real Analysis I MATH 6351 - Intro Real Analysis II MATH 6361 - Complex Variables Two of the following: MATH 6083 - Dynamical Systems/Chaos MATH 6120 - Ordinary Differtl Equations MATH 6391 - Partial Diffrntl Equation I MATH 6721 - Numerical Analysis To ensure in-depth knowledge in Applied Mathematics, several 7000-level courses are required. Corresponding 8000-level cognates may be used to substitute for 7000-level courses. At least 12 credit hours must be chosen from among the following 7000-level courses: MATH 7016 - Fourier Analysis MATH 7350 - Real Variables I MATH 7351 - Real Variables II MATH 7355 - Functional Analysis I MATH 7361 - Complex Analysis MATH 7371 - Calculus Of Variations MATH 7393 - Differl Equatns/App MATH 7395 - Theory Diff Equatns MATH 7501 - Nonlinear Wave Phenomena MATH 7502 - Semigroups of Linear Operators MATH 7503 - Semigroups Nonlinear Operators MATH 7504 - Partial Differential Equations MATH 7613 - Probability Theory Return to: Degree Programs Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 University of Memphis. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).