Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advising Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog College of Humanities and Social Sciences Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) “Justice, freedom, democracy, race, the good life, religion, human responsibility to one another and to nature - the very concepts upon which modern society is built - are the subjects of study in the College of Humanities and Social Sciences. What we teach our students today will influence what happens in Southern California and the country for years to come.” Dean Sheryl I. Fontaine College of Humanities and Social Sciences Associate Dean, Faculty and Staff Relations Patricia A. Pérez Associate Dean, Student Relations Jessica Stern Assistant Dean, Student Academic Services Brittney Swanson Dean’s Office Humanities 211 657-278-3528 College Website hss.fullerton.edu The College of Humanities and Social Sciences (H&SS) offers students the breadth of a traditional liberal arts education while preparing them for a wide range of professions, graduate school and advanced professional study. It is home to more than 20 different departments and programs. All majors in H&SS provide students with the broad education and core skills that will be attractive to employers in whatever career or field a graduate may choose. For those seeking to become high school teachers, we offer programs leading to secondary credentials in English/Language Arts, Foreign Languages and History/Social Science. Graduates from our college speak and write in ways that inform and inspire others. Through their studies, they have come to understand and appreciate the rich traditions of thought and expression, ideologies, belief systems and epistemologies that have shaped and continue to shape the world. Learning Goals and Student Learning Outcomes Bachelor of Arts in Humanities and Social Sciences HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES COURSES Courses are designated as HSS in the class schedule. HSS 350 - Life and Culture Abroad (3) HSS 399 - Directed Study (1-3) HSS 495 - Humanities Internship (3-6) HSS 496 - Social Sciences Internship (3-6) HSS 499 - Independent Study (1-3) HSS 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) Programs Bachelor of Arts • Humanities and Social Sciences, B.A. (online degree completion) African American Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Ethnic Studies, African American Studies Concentration, B.A. Non-Degree • African American Studies Minor Aging Studies Program Go to information for this department. Programs Master of Science • Gerontology, M.S. Non-Degree • Aging Studies Minor American Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • American Studies, B.A. Master of Arts • American Studies, M.A. Non-Degree • American Studies Minor Anthropology, Division of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Anthropology, B.A. Master of Arts • Anthropology, M.A. Non-Degree • Anthropology Minor Certificate • Forensic Anthropology Certificate Asian American Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Ethnic Studies, Asian American Studies Concentration, B.A. Non-Degree • Asian American Studies Minor Asian Studies Program Go to information for this department. Programs Non-Degree • Asian Studies Minor Chicana and Chicano Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Ethnic Studies, Chicana and Chicano Studies Concentration, B.A. Non-Degree • Chicana and Chicano Studies Minor English, Comparative Literature and Linguistics, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Comparative Literature, B.A. • English, B.A. • Linguistics, B.A. Master of Arts • English, M.A. • Linguistics, Analysis of Specific Language Structures Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Anthropological Linguistics Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Applied Linguistics Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Communications and Semantics Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Disorders of Communication Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Language and Mind Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Language and Society Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, M.A. Non-Degree • Comparative Literature Minor • Creative Writing Minor • English Minor • Linguistics Minor Certificate • Certificate in Writing and Teaching Environmental Studies Program Go to information for this department. Programs Master of Science • Environmental Studies, M.S. Geography and the Environment, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Geography, B.A. • Geography, Environmental Analysis Concentration, B.A. Master of Arts • Geography, M.A. Non-Degree • Geography Minor Certificate • Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Certificate • Geospatial Technologies Certificate History, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • History, B.A. Master of Arts • History, Chicana/Chicano Studies Concentration, M.A. • History, M.A. • History, Public History Concentration, M.A. Non-Degree • History Minor Latin American Studies Program Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Latin American Studies, B.A. Non-Degree • Latin American Studies Minor Liberal Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Liberal Studies, B.A. Non-Degree • Food Studies Minor • Foundations of Liberal Studies Minor • Liberal Studies Minor • Science, Culture, and Society Minor Modern Languages and Literatures, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • French, B.A. • Japanese, B.A. • Spanish, B.A. Master of Arts • Spanish, Chicana/Chicano Studies Concentration, M.A. • Spanish, M.A. Master of Science • Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, M.S. Non-Degree • Chinese Minor • French Minor • Japanese Minor • Spanish Minor • Vietnamese Minor Certificate • Certificate in Translation: Spanish to English / English to Spanish • Spanish for Hispanic Media Certificate • Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) Certificate • Undergraduate TESOL Professional Certificate Philosophy, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Philosophy, B.A. • Philosophy, Social, Moral, and Legal Philosophy for the Professions Concentration, B.A. Non-Degree • Philosophy Minor Politics, Administration and Justice, Division of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Criminal Justice, B.A. • Political Science, B.A. • Public Administration, B.A. Master of Arts • Political Science, M.A. Master of Public Administration • Public Administration, Human Resources Concentration, M.P.A. • Public Administration, Local Government Management Concentration, M.P.A. • Public Administration, Public Finance Management Concentration, M.P.A. • Public Administration, Public Policy Concentration, M.P.A Non-Degree • Criminal Justice Minor • International Politics Minor • Law, Politics and Society Minor • Political Science Minor • Public Administration Minor • Public Policy Minor Certificate • Security Studies Psychology, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Psychology, B.A. Master of Arts • Psychology, M.A. Master of Science • Psychology, Clinical, M.S. Non-Degree • Psychology Minor Religious Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Religious Studies, B.A. Non-Degree • Christian Studies Minor • Islamic Studies Minor • Jewish Studies Minor • Religious Studies Minor Sociology, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Sociology, B.A. • Sociology, B.A. (online degree completion) • Sociology, Health and Social Welfare Concentration, B.A. • Sociology, Social Inequalities Concentration, B.A. • Sociology, Sociology of Deviance and Crime Concentration, B.A. Master of Arts • Sociology, M.A. Non-Degree • Sociology Minor Women and Gender Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Women and Gender Studies, B.A. Non-Degree • Queer Studies Minor • Women and Gender Studies Minor Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).