Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Linguistics, Anthropological Linguistics Concentration, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) Master of Arts in Linguistics Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. Graduate Standing - Classified Classified graduate standing requires a bachelor’s degree in Linguistics or a related field from an accredited institution with at least 3.0 GPA in the major courses provided that a minimum of 24 units of upper-division coursework is included. A student who has not completed the equivalent of one or more of the following courses, as determined by the Linguistics graduate adviser, must enroll in the respective prerequisite course(s). Such enrollment may be achieved concurrently with graduate course work in the program: LING 351 - Introduction to Linguistic Phonetics and Phonology (3) LING 406 - Descriptive Linguistics (3) LING 408 - Syntax (3) LING 412 - Sociolinguistics (3) LING 430 - Historical Linguistics (3) Additional Information These prerequisites must be made up with at least a 3.0 GPA in such makeup coursework. In the event that the student’s GPA in prerequisite Linguistics courses is less than 3.0, six to nine units of probationary, adviser-approved coursework may be assigned. If the GPA in these probationary courses is 3.0 or better, the student may be classified. Some courses taken to make up qualitative deficiencies may be credited toward the M.A. if completed with a “B” (3.0) or better, and if applicable to the student’s particular study plan. Courses taken to remove quantitative deficiencies may not be applied to the M.A. program. Knowledge of one foreign language is required (equivalent of a 300-level Modern Languages course). Students without coursework in a foreign language may demonstrate proficiency by a score of average or better on the MLA-ETS Proficiency Examination for Advanced Students. Work toward fulfillment of this requirement may be taken concurrently with graduate work in linguistics. Modifications of certain prerequisite requirements may be permitted in exceptional circumstances. A study plan must be developed and approved for admission to classified graduate standing. Concentration in Anthropological Linguistics A minimum of 15 units in 500-level courses is required. Satisfactory completion of a written comprehensive examination is required at the conclusion of the program. The examination may be repeated only once. A reading list for the examination and specifications for the project are available in the program office. For further information, consult the graduate adviser. Descriptive and HIstorical Linguistics (15 units) LING 501 - Research Methods and Bibliography (3) LING 505 - Phonological Analysis (3) LING 507 - Grammatical Analysis (3) LING 508 - Theories of Syntax (3) LING 530 - Graduate Seminar: Historical Linguistics (3) Electives (9 units) Courses from other fields may be selected with adviser approval. ANTH 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) LING 416 - Anthropological Linguistics (3) LING 442 - Changing Words: History, Semantics, and Translation (3) LING 492 - Linguistic Fieldwork (3) LING 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) Linguistics or a Related Field Elective (3 units) Project (3 units) Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).