Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in International Business Select a section... Overview Secondary Major Requirements Undergraduate Minor Contact Information Union Pacific Undergraduate Programs Office 1200 Gerdin Business Building ivybusiness.iastate.edu undergrad@iastate.edu 515-294-8300 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Business > Program: International Business The international business secondary major is designed to provide students with an understanding of the international business environment. Over the past 50 years, businesses have experienced heightened globalization that was unthinkable in the recent past. While this trend has been widely credited with numerous technological and economic advances, it has also ushered in a period of unprecedented economic and social disruption with ramifications for businesses around the world. Increased awareness of these consequences has recently led to a global re-evaluation of how business should be conducted internationally. Contemporary issues related to environmental concerns, political instability, and human rights have only made international business decisions more complicated for organizations. Undergraduate Secondary Major in International Business For undergraduate curriculum in business, secondary major in International Business. Administered by the Department of Management and Entrepreneurship. Whether you desire a career working internationally or simply want to understand how the broader business environment affects fundamental organizational decisions for domestic firms, our International Business (IBUS) offerings provide a broad global perspective to inform your world view. Specifically, the IBUS major is designed to help students develop global business acumen by highlighting how business intersects with politics, economic considerations, and cultures around the world. The major is designed to provide a strong common foundation in international business with two required international overview courses. In addition, students are encouraged to take additional coursework with relevance to their business and career interests, with business-specific courses spanning numerous functional areas and general cultural classes covering numerous regions of the world. Students also have the opportunity to shape their international exposure via multiple study abroad options or via additional coursework at Iowa State. For information on the secondary major in International Business, see the Ivy College of Business International Programs Coordinator, located in 2139 Gerdin Business Building. For more information on the undergraduate secondary major in International Business, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/international-business/ Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, undergraduate students with a secondary major in international business will: Be effective communicators Be effective collaborators Be problem solvers Understand business concepts Recognize ethical and legal responsibilities to organizations Secondary Major in International Business In addition to the basic business degree requirements (https://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofbusiness/#curriculuminbusinesstext), the requirements for the secondary major in International Business are met by successful completion of the following: International Overview (6 credits) BUSAD 301X: Introduction to International Business. This course focuses on the principles and practice of international business across functional areas, with an emphasis on comparing the legal, political, economic, and cultural dimensions of domestic and international business. MGMT 414 International Management . The nature and economic role of the multinational firm and entrepreneurial ventures, including the impact of legal, political, and cultural variables upon firm performance and managerial activity; case studies illustrate interdependent nature of functional areas of business projected across national boundaries. Business Focus (6 credits)* Select two courses from the list below: ACCT 496 Accounting in the Global Economy 3 ENTSP 367 International Entrepreneurship 3 ECON 355 International Trade and Finance 3 ECON 385 Economic Development 3 ECON 455 International Trade 3 ECON 457 International Finance 3 FIN 480 International Finance 3 FIN 491 International Study Course in Global Capital Markets 3 MGMT 472 Management of Diversity 3 MIS 495 Case Practicum 3 MKT 448 Global Marketing 3 MKT 492 Comparative Marketing 3 SCM 466 Global Trade Management 3 SCM 491 International Live Case and Study Tour 3 SCM 473X War and Peace and Supply Chains 3 * Additional business-focused courses incorporating an international travel component may be able to be applied towards fulfilling this requirement with approval of the Ivy International Programs Coordinator. Global Engagement, Awareness, and Regional Perspective Requirement Students can fulfill this portion of the IBUS major by completing one of the three options outlined below: Option 1: One semester abroad, earning at least 12 credits AND BUSAD 491AX: Integrating Your International Experience (3 cr.), taken the semester after returning from abroad^ AND One course from the approved Global Awareness courses below Option 2: One faculty-led study abroad program (may use a course from the Business Focus to meet this) AND One Regional Focus course from the list below with relevance to the chosen study-abroad program AND One course from the approved Global Awareness courses below Option 3: Plan of study approved by the Ivy International Programs Coordinator Please note, in some instances international travel may not be required to fulfill the IBUS major--see the Ivy International Programs Coordinator for more information. ^ In the event that students complete their semester abroad during their final semester, this class may be taken concurrently. Global Awareness (3 credits) Select 3 credits from the list below: ANTHR 220 Globalization and Sustainability 3 ANTHR 230 Globalization and the Human Condition 3 ANTHR 336 Global Development 3 ANTHR 418 Global Culture, Consumption and Modernity 3 C R P 291 World Cities and Globalization 3 C R P 376 Rural, Urban and Regional Economics 3 C R P 429 Planning in Developing Countries 3 DSN S 304X Global Challenges: Intro to UN Sustainable Development Goals 3 INTST 235 Introduction to International Studies 3 INTST 250X The World's Regions in a Global Context 3 INTST 350 Topics in International Studies 2-4 MKT 484 Technology, Globalization and Culture 3 POL S 381 International Political Economy 3 SOC 348 Global Poverty, Resources and Sustainable Development 3 SOC 411 Social Change in Developing Countries 3 WGS 435 Gender, Globalization and Development 3 WLC 119 Introduction to World Languages 3 WLC 270 Cultures in Transition 3 Regional Focus Africa Language*: WLC 107 Introduction to Swahili AF AM 310 Africa to 1880 3 AF AM 311 Africa under Colonial Rule 3 AF AM 325 Peoples and Cultures of Africa. 3 AF AM 355X Understanding Sub-Saharan Africa 3 RELIG 358 Islam 3 Mid-East Language*: Arabic ARABC 375 Arab Culture 3 ANTHR 335 Peoples and Cultures of the Middle East 3 HIST 435 History of the Modern Middle East 3 POL S 350 Politics of the Middle East 3 RELIG 358 Islam 3 RELIG 359 The Quran 3 China Language*: Chinese CHIN 272 Introduction to Chinese Culture 3 CHIN 375 China Today 3-4 ECON 387 Economies of China and India 3 HIST 207 Chinese Civilization 3 HIST 336 History of Modern China I 3 HIST 337 History of Modern China II 3 POL S 342 Chinese Politics 3 India WLC 352 Religions of India 3 ECON 387 Economies of China and India 3 RELIG 353 Buddhism 3 RELIG 358 Islam 3 Japan HIST 338 Modern Japanese History 3 RELIG 353 Buddhism 3 Russia Language*: Russian HIST 421 History of Russia I 3 HIST 422 History of Russia II 3 POL S 349 Politics of Russia and Eastern Europe 3 RUS 375 Russia Today 3 Southern Europe POL S 346 European Politics 3 RELIG 332 Catholicism 3 Spain Language*: Spanish SPAN 321 Spanish Civilization 3 SPAN 323 Spain Today 3 Italy Language*:ITAL 107 Intensive Beginning Italian CL ST 403 Roman Civilization. 3 France Language*: French FRNCH 320 France Today 3 FRNCH 476 French Culture and Society in English 3-4 HIST 419 History of Modern France 3 Northern Europe POL S 346 European Politics 3 German Language*: German GER 320 Germany Today 3 GER 330 German Literature and Culture 3 GER 476 Topics in German Cultural Studies 3-4 HIST 424 History of Modern Germany 3 UK HIST 327 History of the British Empire 3 POL S 348 British Government and Politics 3 Latin America Language*: Spanish or Portuguese HIST 340 History of Latin America I 3 HIST 341 History of Latin America II 3 HIST 441 History of Modern Mexico and Central America 3 POL S 343 Latin American Government and Politics 3 PORT 375 Brazil Today 3 RELIG 332 Catholicism 3 SPAN 322 Latin American Civilization 3 SPAN 324 Latin America Today 3 * Relevant university-level foreign language courses can be used to satisfy a Regional Focus requirement. Please note that sign language courses are not considered approved foreign language. Fifteen of the 18 credits required for the International Business secondary major must not be used for the primary major. Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minors taken outside the Ivy College of Business. Undergraduate Minor in International Business Students with a major in the Ivy College of Business may earn a minor in International Business by completing 15 credits of approved coursework. The minor requires one course from the approved International Overview courses, two courses from the approved Business Focus courses, and by completing the Faculty-Led Global Awareness track, or the Foreign Language Global Awareness track, or through a plan of study approved by the Ivy International Programs Office. The minor must include at least six credits in courses numbered 300 or above taken at Iowa State University with a grade of C or higher. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Students with declared majors have priority over students with declared minors in courses with space constraints. International Overview (3 credits) Choose one course from the list below: BUSAD 301X: Introduction to International Business. This course focuses on the principles and practice of international business across functional areas, with an emphasis on comparing the legal, political, economic, and cultural dimensions of domestic and international business. MGMT 414 International Management. The nature and economic role of the multinational firm and entrepreneurial ventures, including the impact of legal, political, and cultural variables upon firm performance and managerial activity; case studies illustrate interdependent nature of functional areas of business projected across national boundaries. Business Focus (6 credits)* Select two courses from the list below: ACCT 496 Accounting in the Global Economy 3 ENTSP 367 International Entrepreneurship 3 ECON 355 International Trade and Finance 3 ECON 385 Economic Development 3 ECON 455 International Trade 3 ECON 457 International Finance 3 FIN 480 International Finance 3 FIN 491 International Study Course in Global Capital Markets 3 MGMT 472 Management of Diversity 3 MIS 495 Case Practicum 3 MKT 448 Global Marketing 3 MKT 492 Comparative Marketing 3 SCM 466 Global Trade Management 3 SCM 491 International Live Case and Study Tour 3 SCM 473X War and Peace and Supply Chains 3 * Additional business-focused courses incorporating an international travel component may be able to be applied towards fulfilling this requirement with approval of the Ivy International Programs Coordinator. Global Awareness Complete one of the two options below: Option 1: One faculty-led study abroad program (may use a course from the Business Focus to meet this) AND One Regional Focus^ course from the list found here https://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofbusiness/internationalbusiness/#curriculumtext/ with relevance to the chosen study-abroad program AND One course from the approved Global Awareness courses found here: https://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofbusiness/internationalbusiness/#curriculumtext/ Option 2: Plan of study approved by the Ivy International Programs Coordinator Please note, in some instances international travel may not be required to fulfill the IBUS major--see the Ivy International Programs Coordinator for more information. ^ Relevant university-level foreign language courses can be used to satisfy a Regional Focus requirement. Please note that sign language courses are not considered approved foreign language. Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minors taken outside the Ivy College of Business. For more information on the undergraduate minor in International Business, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/zminors-and-certificates/ Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.