Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Education, Higher Education Concentration, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) The Higher Education concentration prepares students with the practical skills, knowledge and experience to become entry and mid-level professionals and leaders in higher education institutions, national/international professional associations and organizations, and government agencies. The program provides a strong foundation for career advancement. Application Deadlines To assure full consideration, please complete the online applications before the posted deadline for the fall semester (Cal State Apply). Application deadlines change depending on demand and enrollment allocations. Check with the department for current information. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, an applicant should have a successful teaching experience in an elementary or secondary school. (If such experience is not available, other experience in related fields is an alternative if approved by a graduate adviser before starting the program.) A candidate portfolio is also required. Graduate Standing - Classified A student who meets the admission requirements and has a minimum 2.5 GPA in previous academic work may be granted classified graduate standing upon approval of a study plan. Study Plan The study plan requirements include field experience and a comprehensive exam. No more than nine units of postgraduate work taken prior to classified standing may be applied to a student’s master’s degree program. Core Coursework (9 units) EDAD 503A - Organizational Leadership and Management A (3) EDAD 505B - Instructional Leadership in Higher Education (3) EDAD 510 - Instructional Leadership and Assessment B (3) Concentration Coursework (18 units) EDAD 521 - History and Philosophy of Higher Education (3) EDAD 522 - College Student Characteristics and Cultures (3) EDAD 523 - Student Learning and Development (3) EDAD 524 - Diversity Access and Equity (3) EDAD 568 - Higher Ed Fieldwork (3) must take twice Culminating Experience-Comprehensive Exam EDAD 595 - Professional Seminar in Higher Education (3) Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).