Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Gerontology, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) The Master of Science program combines training in both scientific and applied areas of gerontology. Because various departments across the university participate in the program, students are able to design a study plan that will meet their individual needs. In addition to coursework in research and theory, the program provides preparation for work in a variety of settings. It can also be tailored to meet the needs of the student who wants to prepare for a doctoral program. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified An applicant who meets the following requirements may be considered for conditionally classified graduate standing: a baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution and a grade point average of at least 3.0 in the last 60 units attempted formal application form two copies of transcripts from all institutions attended three letters of recommendation (academic/professional) letter stating professional objectives critical thinking assessment A Gerontology Program Application form must be filed with the Gerontology Program Office. The baccalaureate must be in gerontology or a related field in conjunction with an undergraduate minor, certificate or emphasis in gerontology or the equivalent. In the absence of the above, the student should ordinarily have the following 12 units of upper-division coursework in gerontology or their equivalent: BIOL 306 - Biology of Aging (3) KNES 454 - Physical Dimensions of Aging (3) PSYC 362 - Psychology of Aging (3) SOCI 443 - Sociology of Aging (3) Additional Information The following additional criteria may be taken into consideration: research experience; previous paid or volunteer experience in working with older adults. It may be possible for applicants who have minimal deficiencies in prerequisite requirements, as detailed above, but who are otherwise highly qualified, to be admitted in conditionally classified graduate standing, with provisions made for removal of deficiencies prior to granting classified standing. For further information, consult with the Gerontology Academic Program Coordinator or Graduate Adviser. Admissions to Graduate Standing - Classified Each student, in consultation with the Graduate Adviser, will develop a study plan. This will be outlined on an official university Study Plan Form. Students who have met the requirements for conditionally classified standing will be granted classified standing upon submission of an adviser-approved study plan to the Graduate Studies office. Study Plan The Master of Science in Gerontology requires a minimum of 21 units at the 500 level. Check the program website for updates and changes. Required Core Courses (18 units) GERO 500 - Applied Gerontology (3) GERO 501 - Research Methods in Gerontology (3) GERO 503 - Aging and Public Policy (3) GERO 507 - Biopsychosocial Perspectives in Aging (3) GERO 535 - Program Planning and Evaluation (3) GERO 595 - Gerontology Internship (3) Gerontology Electives (3-6 units) Multidisciplinary Electives (3-6 units) Selected from two or more departments with the program coordinator’s approval: Exit Option (3 units) GERO 598 - Thesis (3-6) or GERO 597 - Project (3-6) Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).