Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in World Languages and Cultures Select a section... Overview Placement Policies American Sign Language (Courses) Arabic (Courses) Chinese French German Italian (Courses) Latin (Courses) Portuguese (Courses) Russian Spanish WLC (Courses) Four Year Plans Graduate Programs Contact Information Flor Romero-De-Slowing, Academic Adviser II 3230 Pearson Hall language.iastate.edu fslowing@iastate.edu 515-294-8988 Alissa M. Whitmore, Academic Adviser II 3220 Pearson Hall whitmore@iastate.edu 515-294-7570 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > World Languages and Cultures Overview World language study should be an integral part of an academic program for most students. The theoretical understanding of and practical experience in language underlie many intellectual disciplines that try to meet the complex problems of contemporary society. Courses offered by the Department of World Languages and Cultures are designed to develop students' understanding of a second culture through the language spoken by that culture. The Department of World Languages and Cultures offers a major in World Languages and Cultures (Bachelor of Arts) with concentrations in French, German and Spanish and a major in Anthropology (Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science). Minors are offered in Anthropology, Chinese Studies, French, German, Russian Studies, Spanish, as well as Middle Eastern Studies and World Film Studies. Additionally, instruction is offered in American Sign Language, Arabic, Italian, and Classical Latin. The Department also houses the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences' Cross Disciplinary Studies Programs in American Indian Studies, Classical Studies, International Studies, and U.S. Latino/a Studies. The Department also offers faculty-led summer study abroad programs in Costa Rica, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, and Spain; and semester study abroad programs in Spain. Programs and exchanges in other areas of the world are offered through study abroad providers. Information concerning these programs can be obtained directly from the Department. See the Placement Policies subpage for information on language placement. Students at all levels of world language study will have access to the Language Studies Resource Center, located in 3142 Pearson. The Resource Center contains an extensive collection of world language materials, including audio-visual materials, electronic resources, music, books, language specific software and hardware, and other course-related materials. Materials fees: Each student enrolled in a 100- through 200- level world language course is assessed a materials and professional support fee of $25.00 per course. If a student drops a course subject to the fee by the 15th day of the semester the fee for that course will not be assessed. Options The Department offers a major in World Languages and Cultures with two options, leading to the Bachelor of Arts degree: Option 1: Languages and Cultures with a Concentration in French Studies, German Studies, or Spanish Studies; Option 2: Languages and Cultures for Professions (as a second major only) with a Concentration in French, German, or Spanish. A full statement of requirements for majors and minors may be obtained from the Department. For a complete statement of all the college degree requirements, see Liberal Arts and Sciences Degree Requirements. Current and detailed information about the Department is available on-line at www.language.iastate.edu. Language and literature courses numbered 300 and above are principally taught in the target language; courses numbered in the 270s, 370s, and 470s are taught in English. For courses taught in English about Ancient Greek and Rome, see Classical Studies. Students may not take intermediate (200 level) courses for credit after successfully completing any advanced (300/400 level) course, except those in the 370 series or courses taught in English translation. Students who have successfully completed any course in the intermediate (200 level) sequence may not take a lower-numbered course in that sequence for a grade. Languages and Cultures for Professions (LCP) Students with primary majors in the College of Business, the College of Engineering, or the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences are encouraged to complete an LCP second major option in World Languages and Cultures with a concentration in French, German, Spanish, or an LCP minor option in those languages plus Chinese Studies or Russian. The primary objective of the LCP option is to provide learning environments within which students can achieve global literacy, linguistic proficiency, and inter-cultural competence. In the LCP curriculum, students will learn how professions are shaped by social and cultural forces and, alternatively, how professions shape society. In courses on contemporary culture and society, students will identify and analyze issues dealing with the complex interrelationships of languages and cultures and consider how they may affect their chosen profession. Students will experience living and working in diverse cultural settings through study abroad and internship opportunities offered through the LCP program and/or in collaboration with the Colleges of Business, Engineering, and Agriculture and Life Sciences. Students enrolled in the LCP second major option may receive non-graded academic credit for the successful completion of internships (WLC courses numbered 499 in each language area). For the LCP second major option, students will complete 30 credits within their language concentration beyond the fourth-semester level, selected from the list of approved LCP core courses and electives designated for their respective college curricula in either Business, Engineering, or Agriculture and Life Sciences. Students may only enroll in the LCP option as a second major and may not graduate with the LCP option in the WLC major alone. Students in the College of Business may combine course work in the International Business (IB) Secondary Major with course work in LCP by selecting from a list of approved options. Students should consult their academic advisor in the College of Business and the WLC advisor for coursework and international experience that fulfill requirements in both the IB and LCP major options. Student Learning Outcomes Upon the completion of their program of studies in the Department of World Languages and Cultures, majors with a concentration in French, German, or Spanish will demonstrate proficiency in five goal areas: Communication, Cultures, Connections, Comparisons, and Communities. Using their concentration language, students will be able to: 1. COMMUNICATION: understand, interpret, and present information, to negotiate meaning, and to communicate in spoken or written conversations to share information, reactions, feeling, and opinions to various audiences of listeners, readers, or viewers. 2. CULTURES: investigate, explain, and reflect on the relationship between the practices and the perspectives of the cultures studied. 3. CONNECTIONS: demonstrate their ability to build, reinforce, and expand their knowledge of other disciplines and to access and evaluate information from diverse perspectives, while also developing critical thinking to solve problems creatively. 4. COMPARISONS: investigate, explain, and reflect on the nature of language as well as the concept of culture through comparisons of their own culture with other cultures and the language studied. 5. COMMUNITIES: demonstrate an ability to use the language both within and beyond the classroom and to interact and collaborate in their community and the globalized world while also setting goals and reflecting on their progress in using languages for enjoyment, enrichment, and advancement. Graduates will achieve both linguistic proficiency and cultural literacy through the study of the language and culture of their program. Linguistic proficiency entails the ability to function effectively in the target language and the ability to communicate competently with native speakers of the target language. Students of Latin and Ancient Greek demonstrate proficiency by becoming able to read the languages and to translate from these languages into clear and idiomatic English. Cultural literacy includes a general knowledge of the culture's history, familiarity with its literature, and basic knowledge of its social and political institutions. Placement Policies Students who have had formal training in world languages offered at Iowa State may obtain credit by passing appropriate examinations. Students with native fluency in languages taught at Iowa State may not enroll in or take the Exam for Credit in elementary or intermediate courses (100 and 200 level) in their native language. Students are considered to have native fluency if their ethnic first language as indicated on the matriculation form is the language in which they wish to enroll. Students are also considered to have native fluency if they have had substantial attendance at a secondary school or university where the language of instruction is the language in which they wish to enroll at ISU. Students with native fluency may be eligible to enroll in literature and civilization courses in their native language at the 300 level or above; such students must also consult the department office to determine eligibility for advanced composition and conversation courses (300 level and above). Students who have completed three or more years of high-school world language study may not enroll in or receive credit for 101-102 in those languages; credit may be obtained by passing the appropriate Exam for Credit or by completing an advanced sequence (200-level or higher) in that language Students who complete an approved sequence of courses in a single language at the 200- or 300-level (e.g., 201 and 202 or 301 and 302) with a grade of C- or higher are eligible to receive credit for 101 and 102 in that same language if they have not received credit for a 101 or 102 course in the language. Students who complete a 102 course with a grade of C- or higher are eligible to receive credit for 101 in that same language if they have not received credit for 101 in the same language. Students should contact the department after completion of the course sequence to receive credit. Courses in the 101-102 level may not be taken on a remedial basis. Students who have completed two years but less than three years of a single high-school world language may not enroll in a 101 course in that language. These students may enroll in either a 102 course in that language, or in the case of Spanish, SPAN 097 Accelerated Spanish Review. Before enrolling in either SPAN 097 Accelerated Spanish Review or a 102 language course, students are recommended to take the on-line placement test available at www.language.iastate.edu. After completing the online placement test, students who believe that they have extenuating circumstances may appeal to the Department of World Languages and Cultures in order to request enrollment in a 101 language course. SPAN 097 Accelerated Spanish Review is designed for students who need additional work in the language at the first-year level (101-102) and are not planning to continue their language study at the second-year 201-202 level. Students who complete with a passing grade will have fulfilled the LAS world language requirement. Students who have completed SPAN 097 Accelerated Spanish Review and wish to pursue further study in Spanish at the 201-202 level may enroll in 102. Students with disabilities who need to satisfy the world language requirement may direct questions to their academic advisor, the Department of World Languages and Cultures, or the Disability Resources Office. Credit by examination in the Department of World Languages and Cultures for courses numbered 101, 102, 201, and 202 is available only to students who are not currently enrolled in the course. Credit by examination for other courses in the Department is not normally available. American Sign Language (ASL) Courses primarily for undergraduate students ASL 101: American Sign Language I (4-0) Cr. 4. F.S. Introduction to American Sign Language (ASL). Development of expressive and receptive skills including vocabulary, grammar, usage, and cultural information. Note: Distinct from “Signed English”. ASL is a natural language with its own rules of grammar and usage. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement ASL 102: American Sign Language II (4-0) Cr. 4. S. Prereq: ASL 101 Introduction to American Sign Language (ASL) II continues development of expressive and receptive skills introduced in American Sign Language I, including vocabulary, grammar, usage, and cultural information. Distinct from “Signed English”. ASL is a natural language with its own rules of grammar and usage. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement ASL 201: Intermediate American Sign Language I (4-0) Cr. 4. F. Prereq: ASL 102 or equivalent. Development of fluency for intermediate conversational skills. Review of grammar and varying grammatical forms for both structured and unstructured social situations such as sharing opinions, discussing weekend activities, and exchanging views on current topics. ASL 202: Intermediate American Sign Language II (4-0) Cr. 4. S. Prereq: ASL 201 or equivalent. A continuation and further application of language principles learned in ASL 201, to deepen ability to actively engage in dialogue both in structured and unstructured social situations. Further fluency in intermediate conversational skills will be developed, particularly in the areas of sematic equivalence and dialogic/monologic register. ASL 275: Topics in Deaf Culture (3-0) Cr. 3. Focus on contemporary topics in Deaf Culture, Communities, and History. Readings and discussion from a wide range of sources. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement ASL 490: Independent Study Cr. 1-6. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. F.S.SS. Prereq: 6 credits in ASL and permission of department chair Designed to meet the needs of students in areas other than those in which courses are offered, or who desire to integrate a study of literature or language with special problems in major fields. No more than 6 credits of ASL 490 may be counted towards graduation. Arabic (Arabc) Courses primarily for undergraduate students ARABC 101: Elementary Arabic I (4-0) Cr. 4. F. Beginning level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in Arabic, within the context of Arabic culture. Attention to the use of the Arabic alphabet. ARABC 102: Elementary Arabic II (4-0) Cr. 4. S. Prereq: ARABC 101 or placement by department exam. Continuation of ARABC 101. Beginning level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in Arabic, within the context of Arabic culture. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. ARABC 195: Study Abroad Cr. arr. Alt. SS., offered irregularly. Supervised instruction in Arabic language and culture, formal class instruction at level appropriate to student's training, augmented by practical living experience. Taught in Arabic. ARABC 201: Intermediate Arabic I (4-0) Cr. 4. F. Prereq: ARABC 102 or placement by department exam Intermediate level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in Arabic, within the context of Arabic culture. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. ARABC 202: Intermediate Arabic II (4-0) Cr. 4. Prereq: ARABC 201 or placement by department exam Continuation of Arabic 201. Intermediate level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in Arabic, within the context of Arabic culture. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. ARABC 295: Study Abroad Cr. arr. Alt. SS., offered irregularly. Prereq: ARABC 102 or equivalent Supervised instruction in Arabic language and culture, formal class instruction at level appropriate to student's training, augmented by practical living experience. Taught in Arabic. Chinese Studies (Chin) Chinese Studies Minor Option 1: Chinese Studies (17 Credits) CHIN 201 Intermediate Mandarin Chinese I 4 CHIN 202 Intermediate Mandarin Chinese II 4 Remaining 9 credits at the 300 level 9 3 credits from the following 3 CHIN 301 Advanced Mandarin Chinese I CHIN 302 Advanced Mandarin Chinese II CHIN 370 Chinese Literature in English Translation CHIN 375 China Today 6 credits from the following 6 ARCH 427 History, Theory, and Criticism of Chinese Architecture CHIN 301 Advanced Mandarin Chinese I CHIN 302 Advanced Mandarin Chinese II CHIN 304 Chinese for Global Professionals CHIN 370 Chinese Literature in English Translation CHIN 375 China Today CHIN 378 Chinese Film and Society CHIN 403A Seminar in Chinese Language and Culture: Translating Contemporary Chinese Texts or CHIN 403B Seminar in Chinese Language and Culture: Topics on Business and Professions or CHIN 403C Seminar in Chinese Language and Culture: Reading Chinese Texts CHIN 490 Independent Study CHIN 499 Internship in Chinese HIST 336 History of Modern China I HIST 337 History of Modern China II POL S 315 Special Topics in International Relations POL S 342 Chinese Politics Chinese Studies Minor Option 2: Languages and Cultures for Professions A. Agriculture and Life Sciences, Business, or Engineering Major and Languages and Cultures for Professions Minor Emphasis in Chinese Studies (17 credits) CHIN 201 Intermediate Mandarin Chinese I 4 CHIN 202 Intermediate Mandarin Chinese II 4 9 cr - choose from only one of the following categories 9 CATEGORY 1 CHIN 272 Introduction to Chinese Culture CHIN 304 Chinese for Global Professionals CHIN 370 Chinese Literature in English Translation CHIN 375 China Today CHIN 378 Chinese Film and Society CHIN 499 Internship in Chinese POL S 315 Special Topics in International Relations POL S 342 Chinese Politics CATEGORY 2 CHIN 272 Introduction to Chinese Culture CHIN 301 Advanced Mandarin Chinese I CHIN 302 Advanced Mandarin Chinese II CHIN 304 Chinese for Global Professionals CHIN 499 Internship in Chinese HIST 336 History of Modern China I HIST 337 History of Modern China II CHIN 403A Seminar in Chinese Language and Culture: Translating Contemporary Chinese Texts or CHIN 403B Seminar in Chinese Language and Culture: Topics on Business and Professions or CHIN 403C Seminar in Chinese Language and Culture: Reading Chinese Texts Courses primarily for undergraduate students CHIN 101: Elementary Mandarin Chinese I (4-0) Cr. 4. F. Introduction to spoken and written colloquial Mandarin through pinyin and simplified characters. For students whose native language is not Chinese. CHIN 102: Elementary Mandarin Chinese II (4-0) Cr. 4. S. Prereq: CHIN 101 Introduction to spoken and written colloquial Mandarin through pinyin and simplified characters. For students whose native language is not Chinese. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 201: Intermediate Mandarin Chinese I (4-0) Cr. 4. F. Prereq: CHIN 102 Development of speaking, writing, reading, and listening skills. Review and expansion of grammar skills, intensification of character acquisition. For students whose native language is not Chinese. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 202: Intermediate Mandarin Chinese II (4-0) Cr. 4. S. Prereq: CHIN 201 Development of speaking, writing, reading, and listening skills. Review and expansion of grammar skills, intensification of character acquisition. For students whose native language is not Chinese. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 272: Introduction to Chinese Culture (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Interdisciplinary introduction to Chinese society and culture from earliest times to the present. Topics include ancient literature, philosophy, religion, art, architecture, customs, transition to a modern society, social changes, urban life, popular culture, and contemporary values and ideas. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 301: Advanced Mandarin Chinese I (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: CHIN 202 or equivalent Continuing development of speaking, writing, reading, and listening skills beyond intermediate level. Expansion of cultural literacy through a variety of texts from the humanities, social sciences, mass media and business. Native speakers of Chinese by instructor's permission only. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 302: Advanced Mandarin Chinese II (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: CHIN 301 or equivalent Continuing development of speaking, writing, reading, and listening skills beyond intermediate level. Expansion of cultural literacy through a variety of texts from the humanities, social sciences, mass media and business. Native speakers of Chinese by instructor's permission only. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 304: Chinese for Global Professionals (4-0) Cr. 4. S. Prereq: CHIN 202 or equivalent Introduction to professional language and culture in China and Chinese-speaking regions in Asia. Development of all four language skills, focusing on practical applications in the professional contexts. Development of global awareness and cross-cultural understanding. Preparation for internships. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 370: Chinese Literature in English Translation (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable. F. Prereq: ENGL 150 or equivalent Topics may include traditional prose, poetry, novel and drama; twentieth-century fiction and film. All readings and class discussions in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 375: China Today (3-2) Cr. 3-4. Repeatable. S. Prereq: ENGL 250 or equivalent Focusing on contemporary society, culture, literature and the arts. All readings, discussions, and papers in English. Topics vary from year to year. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 378: Chinese Film and Society Cr. 3. S. Prereq: ENGL 150 or equivalent Survey of Chinese cinematic history from 1896 to the present against the background of China’s constant sociocultural transformation; emphasis on narrative themes, film history, and film criticism. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Taught in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 403: Seminar in Chinese Language and Culture (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: CHIN 302 or equivalent Critical understanding of authentic texts at the advanced level through reading, translation, and/or application in professional contexts; consolidation of existing language skills, in-depth analysis of cultural issues, and development of professional language proficiency. Taught in Chinese. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 403A: Seminar in Chinese Language and Culture: Translating Contemporary Chinese Texts (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: CHIN 302 Critical understanding of authentic texts at the advanced level through reading, translation, and/or application in professional contexts; consolidation of existing language skills, in-depth analysis of cultural issues, and development of professional language proficiency. Taught in Chinese. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 403B: Seminar in Chinese Language and Culture: Topics on Business and Professions (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: CHIN 302 or equivalent Critical understanding of authentic texts at the advanced level through reading, translation, and/or application in professional contexts; consolidation of existing language skills, in-depth analysis of cultural issues, and development of professional language proficiency. Taught in Chinese. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 403C: Seminar in Chinese Language and Culture: Reading Chinese Texts (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: CHIN 302 or equivalent Critical understanding of authentic texts at the advanced level through reading, translation, and/or application in professional contexts; consolidation of existing language skills, in-depth analysis of cultural issues, and development of professional language proficiency. Taught in Chinese. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. CHIN 490: Independent Study Cr. 1-6. Repeatable. Prereq: 6 credits in Chinese and permission of department chair Designed to meet student needs in areas beyond current course offerings or to accommodate the desire to integrate a study of literature or language with special issues in major fields. CHIN 499: Internship in Chinese Cr. 1-3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: 9 credits of Chinese at the 300 level; permission of advisor and WLC Internship Coordinator Work experience using Chinese in the public or private sector, combined with academic work under faculty supervision. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. No more than 3 credits may apply toward the Chinese minor or LCP minor. French (Frnch) World Languages and Cultures majors with a concentration in French have two options: WLC Option I: French Studies Under WLC Option I, students with a concentration in French Studies must complete at least 30 credits beyond the intermediate level (FRNCH 201 Intermediate French I-FRNCH 202 Intermediate French II). Major option in French Studies (30 credits total) A. Required Core Courses (9 credits) FRNCH 301 French Writing and Grammar 3 FRNCH 302 Reading and Writing French 3 FRNCH 340 Cultural Expressions in the French-Speaking World 3 B. Additional Courses (at least 21 credits) FRNCH 304 French for Global Professionals 3 FRNCH 305 French Conversation 3 FRNCH 320 France Today 3 FRNCH 326 Studies in French or Francophone Film 3 FRNCH 340 Cultural Expressions in the French-Speaking World 3 FRNCH 370 French Studies in English 3-4 FRNCH 378 French and/or Francophone Film Studies in English 3-4 FRNCH 476 French Culture and Society in English 3-4 C. Communication Proficiency Requirements: According to the university-wide Communication Proficiency Grade Requirement, students must demonstrate their communication proficiency by earning a grade of C or better in ENGL 250 Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition (or ENGL 250H Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition: Honors). In addition, the Department requires a grade of C or better in any course numbered between 370 and 379 taught by the Department of World Languages and Cultures (with the exception of Anthropology courses) or the interdepartmental program in Classical Studies. Curricular Notes: Majors must enroll in FRNCH 370, FRNCH 375, FRNCH 378 and/or FRNCH 476 for 4 credits in French. No more than 12 credits from FRNCH 370 French Studies in English, FRNCH 375 Francophone Studies in English, FRNCH 378 French and/or Francophone Film Studies in English and/or FRNCH 476 French Culture and Society in English may be counted for the French major. Credit from French 395 “Université Sorbonne Paris Nord” or an approved study abroad program may be applied to the major. Students may enroll in the Languages and Cultures for Professions (LCP) Option in French as a Second Major only. They may not graduate with the Second Major in LCP alone. Minor in French The French minor requires at least 15 credits of courses taught in French beyond the elementary level (FRNCH 101 Elementary French I – FRNCH 102 Elementary French II). A least six credits must be in the required core: French 301 and French 302. At least three credits must be chosen from the list of approved additional courses: French 304, 305, 320, 326, 340. Credit from French 395 “Université Sorbonne Paris Nord” or an approved study abroad program may be applied to the minor. French 370, 375, 378, and 476 cannot count toward the minor. Required core courses (6 credits): FRNCH 301 French Writing and Grammar 3 FRNCH 302 Reading and Writing French 3 Additional courses (at least 3 credits): FRNCH 304 French for Global Professionals 3 FRNCH 305 French Conversation 3 FRNCH 320 France Today 3 FRNCH 326 Studies in French or Francophone Film 3 FRNCH 340 Cultural Expressions in the French-Speaking World 3 WLC Option II: Languages and Cultures for Professions Under WLC Option II students with a concentration in French must complete at least 30 credits beyond the intermediate (FRNCH 201 - FRNCH 202) level. I. Languages and Cultures for Professions (Colleges of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Business, and Engineering) Students with a primary major in the Colleges of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Business, or Engineering pursuing the second major option in French are required to take at least 30 credits beyond the intermediate (FRNCH 201 - FRNCH 202) level. A. Required Core Courses (16 credits) Additional study abroad credit from French 395 “Université Sorbonne Paris Nord” or an approved study abroad program may be applied to the major. FRNCH 301 French Writing and Grammar 3 FRNCH 302 Reading and Writing French 3 FRNCH 304 French for Global Professionals 3 FRNCH 320 France Today 3 FRNCH 340 Cultural Expressions in the French-Speaking World 3 FRNCH 499 Internship in French 1-3 Additional Courses (at least 14 credits) FRNCH 305 French Conversation 3 FRNCH 326 Studies in French or Francophone Film 3 FRNCH 340 Cultural Expressions in the French-Speaking World 3 FRNCH 370 French Studies in English 3-4 FRNCH 378 French and/or Francophone Film Studies in English 3-4 FRNCH 476 French Culture and Society in English 3-4 Curricular Notes: Majors must enroll in FRNCH 370, FRNCH 378 and/or FRNCH 476 for 4 credits in French. No more than 12 credits from FRNCH 370 French Studies in English , FRNCH 378 French and/or Francophone Film Studies in English and/or FRNCH 476 French Culture and Society in English may be counted for the French major. Credit from an approved study abroad program may be applied to the major. Students may enroll in the Languages and Cultures for Professions (LCP) Option in French as a Second Major only. They may not graduate with the Second Major in LCP alone. Courses primarily for undergraduate students FRNCH 101: Elementary French I (4-0) Cr. 4. F.SS. Beginning level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in French, within the context of French culture. FRNCH 102: Elementary French II (4-0) Cr. 4. S.SS. Prereq: FRNCH 101 Beginning level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in French, within the context of French culture. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 201: Intermediate French I (4-0) Cr. 4. F. Prereq: FRNCH 102 Intermediate level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in French within the context of French culture. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 202: Intermediate French II (4-0) Cr. 4. S. Prereq: FRNCH 201 Intermediate level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in French within the context of French culture. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 301: French Writing and Grammar (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: FRNCH 202 Emphasis on developing language proficiency and skills in reading and writing. Selective review of grammar within the context of cultural and literary prose. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 302: Reading and Writing French (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: FRNCH 301 Readings in French prose, theater and poetry. Introduction to close reading and analysis. Development of reading and writing skills for upper-level courses. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 304: French for Global Professionals (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: FRNCH 202 Communication in business and professional contexts in French-speaking countries. Development of effective communication strategies and project management in the workplace. Cultural contexts of business and professional practice. Emphasis on working across French-American cultures. Preparation for internships. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 305: French Conversation (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: Credit or concurrent enrollment in FRNCH 301 Intensive conversational and listening practice emphasizing contemporary France and the Francophone world. Native or near-native speakers are not eligible to enroll. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 320: France Today (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: FRNCH 202 Selected topics dealing with contemporary French society and culture. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 326: Studies in French or Francophone Film (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable. Prereq: FRNCH 301 In-depth study of a selected filmmaker, genre, or movement. Emphasis on analytical interpretation and relationship between film and French or Francophone culture, history, and society. Counts toward World Film Studies Minor. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 340: Cultural Expressions in the French-Speaking World (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable. Prereq: Credit or concurrent enrollment in FRNCH 302 Cultural approaches to selected topics, genres, movements, or voices in French language, literatures, and media. Emphasis on close reading and discussion. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 370: French Studies in English (3-0) Cr. 3-4. Repeatable. Prereq: For fourth credit, 6 credits in French at 300 level. Author, genre, or period study in French or Francophone history, literature, or culture.Three credits: readings, discussions and papers in English; open to all students. Four credits: required for French concentration credit, supplementary readings and written course work in French. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 370F: Studies in English Translation: French Topics on Women and Gender Studies (Cross-listed with WGS). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Readings, discussions, and papers in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 378: French and/or Francophone Film Studies in English (2-2) Cr. 3-4. Repeatable. Prereq: For fourth credit, 6 credits in French at 300 level. Analysis and interpretation of film in French society. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Film directors, genres, movements (e.g. The New Wave), historical survey, aesthetics, and cinematography. Three credits: readings, discussions and papers in English; open to all students. Four credits: required for French concentration credit, supplementary readings and written course work in French. Counts toward World Film Studies Minor. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 476: French Culture and Society in English (3-0) Cr. 3-4. S. Key moments and themes in French society and culture up to the modern era. Subjects vary according to faculty interest. Readings, discussions, and papers in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. FRNCH 490: Independent Study Cr. 1-6. Repeatable, maximum of 9 credits. Prereq: Permission of French staff and department chair Designed to meet the needs of students who wish to focus on areas other than those in which courses are offered. No more than 9 credits in Frnch 490 may be counted toward graduation. FRNCH 499: Internship in French Cr. 1-3. Repeatable, maximum of 3 credits. F.S.SS. Prereq: 9 credits of French at the 300 level; permission of advisor and WLC Internship Coordinator. Work experience using French language skills in the public or private sector, combined with academic work under faculty supervision. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. No more than 3 credits of Frnch 499 may be applied to the major. FRNCH 590: Special Topics in French Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credtis of 400 level French FRNCH 590A: Special Topics in French: Literature or Literary Criticism Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credtis of 400 level French FRNCH 590B: Special Topics in French: Linguistics Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credtis of 400 level French FRNCH 590C: Special Topics in French: Language Pedagogy Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credtis of 400 level French FRNCH 590D: Special Topics in French: Civilization Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credtis of 400 level French Courses primarily for graduate students, open to qualified undergraduate students FRNCH 590: Special Topics in French Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credtis of 400 level French German (Ger) WLC Option I: German Studies Under WLC Option I, students with a concentration in German must complete at least 30 credits beyond the intermediate (GER 201 - GER 202) level. Students electing the German Studies option may count a maximum of two of the following courses towards the major: GER 370 German Studies in English 3-4 GER 371 The Holocaust in Text, Image, and Memory 3-4 GER 375 Grimms' Tales 3-4 GER 378 German Film and Media Studies 3-4 A. German Studies Required Core Courses: (22 credits) GER 301 Reading 3 GER 302 Composition 3 GER 304 German for Global Professionals 3 GER 305 Conversation 3 GER 320 Germany Today 3 GER 330 German Literature and Culture 3 GER 476 Topics in German Cultural Studies 3-4 B. Additional Courses: The remaining 8 credits may be chosen from the following courses: Repeatable course: GER 330 German Literature and Culture 3 Study Abroad and Internship option: GER 499 Internship in German 1-3 Courses taught in English (up to 8 credits applicable towards major; majors must enroll for 4 credits): GER 370 German Studies in English 3-4 GER 371 The Holocaust in Text, Image, and Memory 3-4 GER 375 Grimms' Tales 3-4 GER 378 German Film and Media Studies 3-4 C. Study Abroad: The department strongly recommends that all students of German participate in an approved study abroad program based in a German-speaking country. Credit from an approved study abroad program may be applied to the major. D. Communication Proficiency Requirements: According to the university-wide Communication Proficiency Grade Requirement, students must demonstrate their communication proficiency by earning a grade of C or better in ENGL 250 Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition (or ENGL 250H Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition: Honors). In addition, the Department requires a grade of C or better in any course numbered between 370 and 379 taught by the Department of World Languages and Cultures (with the exception of Anthropology courses) or the interdepartmental program in Classical Studies. Curricular Notes: GER 330 German Literature and Culture may be repeated once for major credit when offered with a different topic (6cr. total). GER 476 Topics in German Cultural Studies is required for the WLC major option in German Studies. Majors must enroll in GER 476 Topics in German Cultural Studies for 4 credits. Majors choosing the German Studies option may select two additional courses for 4 cr. from the following: GER 370 German Studies in English 3-4 GER 371 The Holocaust in Text, Image, and Memory 3-4 GER 375 Grimms' Tales 3-4 GER 378 German Film and Media Studies 3-4 Minor in German The German minor requires at least 15 credits of courses taught in German. At least six credits must be chosen from among German 301, 302, 304, 305, 320, and 330. At least three credits must be chosen from German 320 and 330. Courses taught primarily in English (German 370, 371, 375, 378, and 476) cannot count toward the German minor. GER 201 Intermediate German I 4 GER 202 Intermediate German II 4 Three credits must be in literature or culture taught in German 3 GER 320 Germany Today GER 330 German Literature and Culture Eligible minor courses 6 GER 301 Reading GER 302 Composition GER 304 German for Global Professionals GER 305 Conversation GER 320 Germany Today GER 330 German Literature and Culture WLC Option II: Languages and Cultures for Professions (LCP) Under WLC Option II students with a concentration in German must complete a minimum of 30 credits beyond the intermediate (GER 201 Intermediate German I - GER 202 Intermediate German II) level. I. Languages and Cultures for Professions (Colleges of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Business, and Engineering) Students with a primary major in the Colleges of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Business, or Engineering pursuing the second major option in German are required to take at least 30 credits beyond the intermediate (GER 201 Intermediate German I - GER 202 Intermediate German II) level. A. Required Core Courses (19 credits). Additional study abroad credit from an approved study abroad program may be applied to the major. GER 301 Reading 3 GER 304 German for Global Professionals 3 GER 305 Conversation 3 GER 320 Germany Today 3 GER 476 Topics in German Cultural Studies 3-4 GER 499 Internship in German * 1-3 *or approved credit-bearing study abroad experience B. Additional Courses (11 credits) GER 302 Composition 3 GER 330 German Literature and Culture 3 GER 370 German Studies in English 3-4 GER 371 The Holocaust in Text, Image, and Memory 3-4 GER 375 Grimms' Tales 3-4 GER 378 German Film and Media Studies 3-4 Curricular Notes: students may only enroll in the Languages and Cultures for Professions (LCP) Option as a Second Major. They may not graduate with the Second Major in LCP alone. LCP Majors may select two of the following courses, which must be taken for 4 credits: GER 370 German Studies in English 3-4 GER 371 The Holocaust in Text, Image, and Memory 3-4 GER 375 Grimms' Tales 3-4 GER 378 German Film and Media Studies 3-4 GER 101: Elementary German I (4-0) Cr. 4. F.SS. Beginning level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in German within the context of German culture. For beginning-level learners who have little or no prior exposure to German. GER 102: Elementary German II (4-0) Cr. 4. S.SS. Prereq: GER 101 Beginning level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in German within the context of German culture. For beginning level learners with only one semester of German (or exposure equivalent to two years or less in high school.). Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 201: Intermediate German I (4-0) Cr. 4. F. Prereq: GER 102 Intermediate level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in German within the context of German culture. Intensive review of basic grammar covered in the first-year German class (or equivalent high school courses) while exploring cultural topics and themes. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 202: Intermediate German II (4-0) Cr. 4. S. Prereq: GER 201 Intermediate level development of reading, writing, listening comprehension, and speaking in German within the context of German culture. Emphasis on intermediate level grammar and communication about topics and themes beyond the personal realm. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 301: Reading (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: GER 202 Emphasis on reading with further development of grammar using a variety of texts. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 302: Composition (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: GER 202 Emphasis on writing skills, with further development of grammar and reading skills using a variety of current and historical materials. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 304: German for Global Professionals (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: GER 202 Communication in business and professional contexts in German-speaking countries. Development of effective communication strategies and project management in the workplace. Cultural contexts of business and professional practice. Preparation for internships. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 305: Conversation (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: GER 202 minimum, GER 301 recommended Intensive conversational and listening practice in German. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 320: Germany Today (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: GER 301 or GER 304 Selected topics dealing with contemporary German society and culture. Introduction to materials, resources, and forms of communication available on the Internet, and in other electronic and print media. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 330: German Literature and Culture (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable. F. Prereq: GER 301 or permission of instructor Selected readings in German literature from Classicism to present. Emphasis on techniques of reading and analysis of literary texts. No more than six credits of Ger 330 may be counted toward the major. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 370: German Studies in English (3-0) Cr. 3-4. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: Sophomore classification. For fourth credit, 6 credits in German at the 300 level Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women writers, cinema, or contemporary theory. Three credits: English, open to all students. Four credits: Required for German concentration credit, supplementary readings and compositions in German. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 370G: Studies in English Translation: German Topics on Women or Feminism (Cross-listed with WGS). (3-0) Cr. 3-4. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: Sophomore classification. For fourth credit, 6 credits in German at the 300 level Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women writers, cinema, or contemporary theory. Three credits: English, open to all students. Four credits: Required for German concentration credit, supplementary readings and compositions in German. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 371: The Holocaust in Text, Image, and Memory (3-0) Cr. 3-4. Prereq: Sophomore classification. For fourth credit, 6 credits in German at the 300 level Examination of such topics as the origins and expressions of Anti-Semitism in central Europe, the political events and structures of the Holocaust, the reality of ghettos and concentration camps, the impact of technological modernization on the Final Solution, and resistance to the Nazis. Materials will include non-fictional texts, literature, art, and music. Three credits: English, open to all students. Four credits: required for German major credit, supplementary readings and compositions in German. Four credits: required for German concentration credit, supplementary readings and compositions in German. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 375: Grimms' Tales (3-0) Cr. 3-4. Prereq: Sophomore classification. For fourth credit, 6 credits in German at the 300 level Emphasis on the Grimm tales: theoretical approaches to the tales from the late 19th and early 20th centuries; perversions of these traditional tales by the National Socialists (Nazis). Readings in contemporary Grimm scholarship. Taught in English. Three credits: English, open to all students. Four credits: required for German concentration credit, supplementary readings and compositions in German. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 378: German Film and Media Studies (3-0) Cr. 3-4. S. Prereq: Sophomore classification. For fourth credit, 6 credits in German at the 300 level Analysis and interpretation of film or media in German society. Study of media production and reception within multicultural and global contexts. Thematic emphases based on faculty and student interest including: 1) film directors, genres, movements (e.g. New German Cinema), aesthetics, and cinematography or 2) media studies (e.g. television, mass press, popular culture). Three credits: English, open to all students. Four credits: required for German concentration credit, supplementary readings and compositions in German. Counts towards the World Film Studies Minor. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 395: Study Abroad Cr. 1-10. Prereq: 2 years university-level German Supervised instruction in language and culture of Germany; formal class instruction at level appropriate to student's training, augmented by practical living experience. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 476: Topics in German Cultural Studies (3-0) Cr. 3-4. S. Prereq: Sophomore classification. For fourth credit, six credits in German at the 300-level courses instructed in German Key topics and themes in German history and culture up to the modern era. Three credits: Taught in English, open to all students. Four credits: Required for German concentration credit, supplementary readings and compositions in German. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. GER 490: Independent Study Cr. 1-6. Repeatable, maximum of 9 credits. Prereq: 6 credits in German and permission of department chair Designed to meet the needs of students who seek work in areas other than those in which courses are offered, or who desire to integrate a study of literature or language with special problems in major fields. No more than 9 credits of Ger 490 may be counted toward graduation. GER 499: Internship in German Cr. 1-3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. F.S.SS. Prereq: 9 credits of German at the 300 level; permission of advisor and the World Languages and Cultures Internship coordinator Work experience using German language skills in the public or private sector, combined with academic work under faculty supervision. Available only to majors and minors. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. Ger 499 may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credits. No more than 3 credits of Ger 499 may be applied to the major. GER 590: Special Topics in German Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level German GER 590A: Special Topics in German: Literature or Literary Criticism Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level German GER 590B: Special Topics in German: Linguistics Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level German GER 590C: Special Topics in German: Language Pedagogy Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level German GER 590D: Special Topics in German: Civilization Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level German Italian (ITAL) Courses primarily for undergraduate students ITAL 107: Intensive Beginning Italian Cr. 4. F.S. A communicative approach to grammar and vocabulary within the context of Italian culture for students whose native language is not Italian. Taught in Italian. Latin (Latin) For courses in Latin literature taught in English, see Classical Studies. Courses primarily for undergraduate students LATIN 101: Elementary Latin I (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Grammar and vocabulary of classical Latin, within the context of Roman culture; reading knowledge through texts adapted from classical authors. LATIN 102: Elementary Latin II (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: LATIN 101 Grammar and vocabulary of classical Latin, within the context of Roman culture; reading knowledge through texts adapted from classical authors. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. LATIN 490: Independent Study Cr. 1-6. Repeatable, maximum of 9 credits. Prereq: 9 credits in Latin and permission of department chair Designed to meet the needs of students who seek work in areas other than those in which courses are offered, or who desire to integrate a study of literature or language with special problems in major fields. No more than 9 credits in Latin 490 may be counted toward graduation. Portuguese (Port) Courses primarily for undergraduate students PORT 101: Elementary Portuguese I Cr. 4. An introduction to the Portuguese language through the communicative approach within the context of Luso-Brazilian culture. PORT 102: Elementary Portuguese II Cr. 4. Prereq: PORT 101 An introduction to the Portuguese language through the communicative approach within the context of Luso-Brazilian culture. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. PORT 111: Intensive Beginning Portuguese Cr. 3. A communicative approach to grammar and vocabulary within the context of Luso-Brazilian culture for students whose native language is not Portuguese. Taught in Portuguese. PORT 112: Elementary Portuguese, Accelerated II Cr. 3. Prereq: PORT 111 An introduction to the Portuguese language through the communicative approach within the context of Luso-Brazilian culture. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. PORT 375: Brazil Today Cr. 3. F. Prereq: None A survey of social, political, economic, and cultural topics relevant to contemporary Brazil. Includes an introduction to Portuguese language. None Meets International Perspectives Requirement. Russian Studies (Rus) Minors in Russian Studies are required to complete RUS 201 and RUS 202. The remaining 9 credits must be at the 300 level and above, including at least 3 credits in the Russian curriculum (courses taught in English or Russian). Russian Studies Minor Option 1: Russian Studies. 9 credits at the 300 level may be selected from the following courses: RUS 201 Intermediate Russian I 4 RUS 202 Intermediate Russian II 4 9 credits must be at the 300 level and above * 9 RUS 301 Composition and Conversation RUS 304 Russian for Global Professionals RUS 314 Reading Russian Literary and Cultural Texts RUS 370 Russian Studies in English Translation RUS 370A Russian Studies in English Translation: Topics in Russian Literature RUS 370B Russian Studies in English Translation: Russian Fairy Tales RUS 370R Studies in English Translation: Russian Topics on Women or Feminism RUS 375 Russia Today RUS 378 Russian Film Studies in English RUS 395 Study Abroad RUS 490 Independent Study RUS 499 Internship in Russian RUS 590 Special Topics in Russian HIST 421 History of Russia I HIST 422 History of Russia II HIST 530 Readings Seminar in Modern Russian/Soviet History POL S 349 Politics of Russia and Eastern Europe * including at least 3 credits in the Russian curriculum (courses taught in English or Russian). Russian Studies Minor Option 2: Languages and Cultures for Professions A. Agriculture and Life Sciences, Business, or Engineering Major and Languages and Cultures for Professions Minor Emphasis in Russian Studies (17 credits) Required Core Courses 11 RUS 201 Intermediate Russian I RUS 202 Intermediate Russian II RUS 304 Russian for Global Professionals Electives 6 RUS 301 Composition and Conversation RUS 314 Reading Russian Literary and Cultural Texts RUS 370 Russian Studies in English Translation RUS 370A Russian Studies in English Translation: Topics in Russian Literature RUS 370B Russian Studies in English Translation: Russian Fairy Tales RUS 370R Studies in English Translation: Russian Topics on Women or Feminism RUS 375 Russia Today RUS 378 Russian Film Studies in English RUS 395 Study Abroad RUS 490 Independent Study RUS 499 Internship in Russian RUS 590 Special Topics in Russian HIST 421 History of Russia I HIST 422 History of Russia II HIST 530 Readings Seminar in Modern Russian/Soviet History POL S 349 Politics of Russia and Eastern Europe Courses primarily for undergraduate students RUS 101: Introduction to Russian Language and Culture I (4-0) Cr. 4. F. Introduction to the Russian language (focusing on the development of speaking, listening, reading and writing skills) and Russian culture. RUS 102: Introduction to Russian Language and Culture II (4-0) Cr. 4. S. Prereq: RUS 101 Continuation of RUS 101. Introduction to the Russian language (focusing on the development of speaking, listening, reading and writing skills) and Russian culture. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 201: Intermediate Russian I (4-0) Cr. 4. F. Prereq: RUS 102 Thorough review of grammar and growth of vocabulary. Selected readings. Continued use of the four basic skills. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 202: Intermediate Russian II (4-0) Cr. 4. S. Prereq: RUS 201 Thorough review of grammar and growth of vocabulary. Selected readings. Continued use of the four basic skills. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 301: Composition and Conversation (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: RUS 202 Thorough study of the Russian language, with emphasis on strengthening proficiency in writing, speaking, reading, and listening. Increased focus on syntax and word formation. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 304: Russian for Global Professionals (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: RUS 102 Communication in business and professional contexts in Russian-speaking countries. Development of effective communication strategies and project management in the workplace. Cultural contexts of business and professional practice. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 314: Reading Russian Literary and Cultural Texts (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable. Prereq: RUS 102 Selected readings in Russian literature and culture. Emphasis on techniques of reading and analysis of literary and cultural texts. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 370: Russian Studies in English Translation (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women writers, cinema, or contemporary theory. Readings, discussions, and papers in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 370A: Russian Studies in English Translation: Topics in Russian Literature (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 9 credits. Focus on Russian literature. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women writers, cinema, or contemporary theory. Readings, discussions, and papers in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 370B: Russian Studies in English Translation: Russian Fairy Tales (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 9 credits. Focus on Russian fairy tales. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women writers, cinema, or contemporary theory. Readings, discussions, and papers in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 370R: Studies in English Translation: Russian Topics on Women or Feminism (Cross-listed with WGS). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women writers, cinema, or contemporary theory. Readings, discussions, and papers in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 375: Russia Today (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable. A survey of social, political, economic, and cultural topics relevant to contemporary Russia. Readings, discussions and papers in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 378: Russian Film Studies in English (3-0) Cr. 3. Analysis and interpretation of cinema in Russia and the Soviet Union. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Film directors, genres, movements, historical survey, aesthetics, and cinematography. Readings, discussions and papers in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 395: Study Abroad Cr. 1-6. Repeatable. Supervised instruction in language and culture of Russia; formal class instruction at level appropriate to student's training, augmented by practical living experience. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. RUS 490: Independent Study Cr. 1-6. Repeatable. Prereq: 6 credits in Russian and permission of department chair Designed to meet the needs of students who seek work in areas other than those in which courses are offered, or who desire to integrate a study of literature or language with special problems in major fields. No more than 9 credits of Rus 490 may be counted toward graduation. RUS 499: Internship in Russian Cr. 1-3. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: 9 credits of Russian at the 300 level; permission of advisor and WLC Internship Coordinator Work experience using Russian language skills in the public or private sector combined with academic work under faculty supervision. Available only to minors. No more than 3 credits may be applied to the minor. RUS 590: Special Topics in Russian Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Russian RUS 590A: Special Topics in Russian: Literature or Literary Criticism Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Russian RUS 590B: Special Topics in Russian: Linguistics Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Russian RUS 590C: Special Topics in Russian: Language Pedagogy Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Russian RUS 590D: Special Topics in Russian: Civilization Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Russian Courses primarily for graduate students, open to qualified undergraduate students RUS 590: Special Topics in Russian Cr. 2-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Russian Spanish (Span) Go to Spanish Minor World Languages and Cultures majors with a concentration in Spanish have two options: WLC Option I: Hispanic Studies Under WLC Option I, students with a concentration in Spanish must complete a minimum of 30 credits beyond the intermediate (SPAN 201 Intermediate Spanish I- SPAN 202 Intermediate Spanish II) level. A. Hispanic Studies Required Core Courses: (12 cr.) SPAN 303A Spanish Conversation and Composition: through Culture 3 or SPAN 303B Spanish Conversation and Composition: for Professionals SPAN 314 Textual and Media Analyses 3 SPAN 352 Spanish Pronunciation 3 B. Additional Courses: Students must take at least 15 credits chosen from a, b, and c below (minimum of 3 credits from each section). a) At least 3 credits of literary studies chosen from the following: SPAN 330 Studies in Spanish Literature 3 SPAN 332 Studies in Latin American Literature 3 b) At least 3 credits of cultural studies chosen from the following: SPAN 304 Spanish for Global Professionals 3 SPAN 321 Spanish Civilization 3 SPAN 322 Latin American Civilization 3 SPAN 323 Spain Today 3 SPAN 324 Latin America Today 3 SPAN 326 Studies in Hispanic Art or Film 3 c) At least 3 credits of applied language and linguistics chosen from the following: SPAN 351 Introduction to Spanish-English Translation 3 SPAN 354 Introduction to Spanish-English Interpretation 3 SPAN 401 Advanced Composition and Grammar 3 SPAN 462 Contrastive Analysis of Spanish/ English for Translators 3 SPAN 463 Contemporary Spanish Linguistics 3 SPAN 499 Internship in Spanish 1-3 Students may apply up to 6 credits of SPAN 395 Study Abroad to section a, b, or c above (appropriate section based upon course content and assigned by the WLC advisor). C. Students must take at least 6 credits of language, literature and/or culture at the 400 level, chosen from the following (each repeatable to 6 credits): SPAN 440 Seminar on the Literatures and Cultures of Spain 3 SPAN 441 Seminar on Cervantes and the Golden Age 3 SPAN 445 Seminar on the Literatures and Cultures of Latin America 3 SPAN 463 Contemporary Spanish Linguistics 3 D. Study Abroad: The department strongly recommends that all students of Spanish participate in an approved study abroad program based in a Spanish-speaking country. Under Option I, any student who chooses not to participate in a department-approved program will be required to take 3 additional elective credits of Spanish at or above the SPAN 321 level (for a total of 33 credits beyond the intermediate 201-202 level). E. Communication Proficiency Requirements: According to the university-wide Communication Proficiency Grade Requirement, students must demonstrate their communication proficiency by earning a grade of C or better in ENGL 250 Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition (or ENGL 250H Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition: Honors). In addition, the Department requires a grade of C or better in any course numbered between 370 and 379 taught by the Department of World Languages and Cultures (with the exception of Anthropology courses) or the interdepartmental program in Classical Studies. Such a course will also fill an LAS Area I (Arts and Humanities) requirement. WLC Option II: Language and Cultures for Professions Under WLC Option II students with a concentration in Spanish must complete a minimum of 30 credits beyond the intermediate (SPAN 201 Intermediate Spanish I-SPAN 202 Intermediate Spanish II) level. I. Languages and Cultures for Professions (Colleges of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Business, and Engineering) Students with a primary major in the Colleges of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Business, or Engineering pursuing the second major option in Spanish are required to take at least 30 credits beyond the intermediate (SPAN 201 Intermediate Spanish I-SPAN 202 Intermediate Spanish II) level. A. Required LCP Core Courses: (12 Credits) SPAN 303B Spanish Conversation and Composition: for Professionals 3 SPAN 304 Spanish for Global Professionals 3 SPAN 351 Introduction to Spanish-English Translation 3 SPAN 499 Internship in Spanish * 1-6 or SPAN 395 Study Abroad B. Literature and Culture Courses: (9 Credits) SPAN 314 Textual and Media Analyses 3 SPAN 323 Spain Today ** 3 or SPAN 321 Spanish Civilization SPAN 324 Latin America Today ** 3 or SPAN 322 Latin American Civilization C. Additional Courses: (6 credits) Select one course from each of the following two categories: Category 1: SPAN 330 Studies in Spanish Literature 3 SPAN 332 Studies in Latin American Literature 3 Category 2: SPAN 440 Seminar on the Literatures and Cultures of Spain 3 SPAN 441 Seminar on Cervantes and the Golden Age 3 SPAN 445 Seminar on the Literatures and Cultures of Latin America 3 SPAN 463 Contemporary Spanish Linguistics 3 D. Additional three credits taken at the 300-level or higher. *Additional credit from an approved study abroad program may be applied to the major. **SPAN 321 Spanish Civilization and SPAN 322 Latin American Civilization may be substituted. Curricular Notes: students may only enroll in the Languages and Cultures for Professions (LCP) Option as a second major. They may not graduate with the second major in LCP alone. Minor in Spanish The Spanish minor: Option 1: Hispanic Studies, Option 2: Languages and Cultures for Professions Option 1: The Spanish minor in Hispanic Studies requires at least 15 credits, 12 of which must be at the 300 level or higher. The department strongly recommends that all students of Spanish participate in an approved study abroad program based in a Spanish-speaking country. Any student who chooses not to participate in a department-approved study abroad program will be required to take 3 additional elective credits of Spanish at the 300 level or higher. Option 2: Language and Cultures for Professions. The Spanish minor in Languages and Cultures for Professions requires the following courses (12 credits): SPAN 303B Spanish Conversation and Composition: for Professionals 3 SPAN 304 Spanish for Global Professionals 3 SPAN 351 Introduction to Spanish-English Translation 3 One of the following 3 SPAN 321 Spanish Civilization SPAN 322 Latin American Civilization SPAN 323 Spain Today SPAN 324 Latin America Today The department strongly recommends that all students of Spanish participate in an approved study abroad program based in a Spanish-speaking country. Any student who chooses not to participate in a department-approved study abroad program will be required to take 3 additional credits in culture chosen from the following: SPAN 321 Spanish Civilization 3 SPAN 322 Latin American Civilization 3 SPAN 323 Spain Today 3 or SPAN 324 Latin America Today Note: students taking either SPAN 321 Spanish Civilization or SPAN 323 Spain Today must take either SPAN 322 Latin American Civilization or SPAN 324 Latin America Today; students taking either SPAN 322 Latin American Civilization or SPAN 324 Latin America Today must take either SPAN 321 Spanish Civilization or SPAN 323 Spain Today. Courses primarily for undergraduate students SPAN 097: Accelerated Spanish Review (3-2) Cr. 0. F.S. Prereq: Two years but less than three years of high-school Spanish For students who require additional review at the first year (101-102) level. Course components include a compact review of 101 and the essential elements of 102. Course completed with a passing grade fulfills the LAS foreign language requirement. Not recommended for students who wish to continue language at the second year (201-202) level without completing 102. SPAN 101: Elementary Spanish I (4-0) Cr. 4. F.SS. A communicative approach to grammar and vocabulary within the context of Hispanic culture. For students whose native language is not Spanish. SPAN 102: Elementary Spanish II (4-0) Cr. 4. S.SS. Prereq: SPAN 101, SPAN 97 or placement by departmental exam Continuation of Spanish 101. A communicative approach to grammar and vocabulary within the context of Hispanic culture. For students whose native language is not Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 195: Study Abroad Cr. 3. SS. Supervised instruction in Spanish and Hispanic culture; formal class instruction at level appropriate to student's training, augmented by practical living experience. Taught in Spanish. Consult the department regarding equivalency with SPAN 101 or 102. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 201: Intermediate Spanish I (4-0) Cr. 4. F. Prereq: SPAN 102 or placement by departmental exam Intensive review of basic grammar and conversation. For students whose native language is not Spanish. Practice in oral and written communication. Development of fluency with idiomatic expressions. Selected readings on culture and literature. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 202: Intermediate Spanish II (4-0) Cr. 4. S. Prereq: SPAN 201 or placement by departmental exam Continuation of Spanish 201. Intensive review of basic grammar. Practice in oral and written communication. Development of fluency with idiomatic expressions. Selected readings on culture and literature. For students whose native language is not Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 295: Study Abroad Cr. 3. SS. Prereq: SPAN 102 or equivalent Supervised instruction in Spanish and Hispanic culture; formal class instruction at level appropriate to student's training, augmented by practical living experience. Taught in Spanish. Consult the department regarding equivalency with SPAN 201 or 202. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 297: Intensive Intermediate Spanish (4-0) Cr. 4. F.S. Prereq: 4 years of high school Spanish, two years of Spanish at a community college, Spanish 201, or equivalent by placement Bridge course between 200- and 300-level Spanish courses that focuses on application of advanced grammatical concepts within the context of Hispanic culture. Accelerated review of SPAN 201 and SPAN 202 designed for students who want to continue at the 300 level. Taught in Spanish for students whose native language is not Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 303: Spanish Conversation and Composition (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: SPAN 202 or placement by departmental exam Intensive oral practice and improvement of oral proficiency. Application of specific grammatical concepts for development of conversational and writing skills within the context of Hispanic culture. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 303A: Spanish Conversation and Composition: through Culture (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: SPAN 202 or placement by departmental exam Intensive oral practice and improvement of oral proficiency. Application of specific grammatical concepts for development of conversational and writing skills within the context of Hispanic culture. Taught in Spanish. For students whose native language is not Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 303B: Spanish Conversation and Composition: for Professionals (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: SPAN 202 or placement by departmental exam Intensive oral practice and improvement of oral proficiency. Application of specific grammatical concepts for development of conversational and writing skills within the context of Hispanic culture. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 304: Spanish for Global Professionals (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: SPAN 202 or placement by departmental exam (SPAN 303B recommended) Introduction to professional communication within a cultural context. Grammar review as needed. Individual projects will focus on special interests. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 314: Textual and Media Analyses (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: SPAN 303A or 303B Critical reading of Hispanic cultural texts. Presentation of techniques and terminology of textual criticism. Study of basic genres and media-generated artifacts and literary texts. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 321: Spanish Civilization (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: One course at the 300 level A survey of the social, political, religious, and cultural history of Spain. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 322: Latin American Civilization (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: One course at the 300 level A survey of the social, political, religious, and cultural history of Spanish America. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 323: Spain Today (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: One course at the 300 level A survey of social, political, economic, and cultural topics relevant to contemporary Spain. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 324: Latin America Today (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: One course at the 300 level A survey of social, political, economic, and cultural topics relevant to contemporary Latin America. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 326: Studies in Hispanic Art or Film (Dual-listed with SPAN 526). (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: One course at the 300 level Survey of major currents and figures in Spanish and Latin American art and/or film. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 330: Studies in Spanish Literature (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: SPAN 314 Introduction to Spanish literature and techniques of literary criticism from the earliest times through the present. Lectures, discussion, and analysis of individual selections in Spanish. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 332: Studies in Latin American Literature (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: SPAN 314 Introduction to Latin American literature and techniques of literary criticism from the earliest times through the present. Lectures, discussion, and analysis of individual selections in Spanish. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 351: Introduction to Spanish-English Translation (Cross-listed with LING, US LS). (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: SPAN 303A or SPAN 303B or SPAN 304 Introduction to the theory, methods, techniques, and problems of translation. Consideration of material from business, literature, and the social sciences. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 352: Spanish Pronunciation (Cross-listed with LING). (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: SPAN 303A or SPAN 303B or SPAN 304 An introductory study of the articulation, classification, distribution, and regional variations of the sounds of the Spanish language. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 354: Introduction to Spanish-English Interpretation (Dual-listed with SPAN 554). (Cross-listed with LING). (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: SPAN 351 Introduction to the theory, methods, techniques, and problems of consecutive and simultaneous interpretation. Consideration of material from business, agriculture, law, design, medicine, literature, advertisement, and sports. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 370: Hispanic Topics in English Translation (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women writers, cinema, or contemporary theory. Readings, discussions, and papers in English. May not be counted as a prerequisite. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 370A: Hispanic Topics in English Translation: Agriculture (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Knowledge and understanding of major cultural, ethical, sociopolitical and economic issues directly related to agriculture and agribusiness in Latin America, Spain, and/or Equatorial Guinea. Readings, discussions, and papers in English. May not be counted as a prerequisite. SPAN 370S: Studies in English Translation: Hispanic Topics on Women or Feminism (Cross-listed with WGS). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women writers, cinema, or contemporary theory. Readings, discussions, and papers in English. May not be counted as a prerequisite. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 395: Study Abroad Cr. 1-10. Repeatable. Prereq: 2 years university-level Spanish or equivalent Supervised instruction in Spanish and Hispanic culture; formal class instruction at level appropriate to students' training, enhanced by practical living experience. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 401: Advanced Composition and Grammar (Dual-listed with SPAN 501). (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: SPAN 314 and one course at the 320-level or above Advanced study of Spanish grammar and syntax. Students' writing of compositions incorporates an advanced understanding of grammar, syntax, and principles of organization of thought and ideas. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 440: Seminar on the Literatures and Cultures of Spain (Dual-listed with SPAN 540). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: SPAN 330, SPAN 331, SPAN 332, or SPAN 333. (Recommended SPAN 330 and SPAN 331) Discussion and analysis of selected topics in Spanish literature and culture from the Middle Ages to the Present. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 441: Seminar on Cervantes and the Golden Age (Dual-listed with SPAN 541). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: SPAN 330, SPAN 331, SPAN 332, or SPAN 333. (SPAN 330 recommended) Discussion and analysis of selected works of Cervantes within the social and cultural context of the Golden Age. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 445: Seminar on the Literatures and Cultures of Latin America (Dual-listed with SPAN 545). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: SPAN 330, SPAN 331, SPAN 332, or SPAN 333. (SPAN 332 and SPAN 333 recommended) Discussion and analysis of selected topics in Latin American literature and culture from Pre-Colonial times to the Present. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 462: Contrastive Analysis of Spanish/ English for Translators (Cross-listed with LING). (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: SPAN 351 Linguistic study of the major differences between the Spanish and English grammatical systems and their applications in the translation of Spanish to English. Taught in Spanish. SPAN 463: Contemporary Spanish Linguistics (Dual-listed with SPAN 563). (Cross-listed with LING). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: SPAN 352 Study of various topics related to the Spanish language. Topics may include bilingualism, historical linguistics and dialectology, Spanish in the U.S., language assessment, computer-assisted language learning and instruction, and second language acquisition. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 490: Independent Study Cr. 1-6. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: 6 credits in Spanish and permission of department chair Designed to meet the needs of students in areas other than those in which courses are offered, or who desire to integrate a study of literature or language with special problems in major fields. No more than 6 credits in Span 490 may be counted toward graduation. SPAN 499: Internship in Spanish Cr. 1-3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. F.S.SS. Prereq: 9 credits of Spanish at the 300 level; permission of advisor and WLC Internship Coordinator Work experience using Spanish language skills in the public or private sector, combined with academic work under faculty supervision. Up to 3 credits may apply toward the major. Available only to majors and minors. SPAN 501: Advanced Composition and Grammar (Dual-listed with SPAN 401). (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: SPAN 314 and one course at the 320-level or above Advanced study of Spanish grammar and syntax. Students' writing of compositions incorporates an advanced understanding of grammar, syntax, and principles of organization of thought and ideas. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 526: Studies in Hispanic Art or Film (Dual-listed with SPAN 326). (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: 6 credits in Spanish literature or culture at 400 level Survey of major currents and figures in Spanish and Latin American art and/or film. SPAN 540: Seminar on the Literatures and Cultures of Spain (Dual-listed with SPAN 440). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: SPAN 330, SPAN 331, SPAN 332, or SPAN 333. (Recommended SPAN 330 and SPAN 331) Discussion and analysis of selected topics in Spanish literature and culture from the Middle Ages to the Present. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 541: Seminar on Cervantes and the Golden Age (Dual-listed with SPAN 441). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: SPAN 330, SPAN 331, SPAN 332, or SPAN 333. (SPAN 330 recommended) Discussion and analysis of selected works of Cervantes within the social and cultural context of the Golden Age. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 545: Seminar on the Literatures and Cultures of Latin America (Dual-listed with SPAN 445). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: SPAN 330, SPAN 331, SPAN 332, or SPAN 333. (SPAN 332 and SPAN 333 recommended) Discussion and analysis of selected topics in Latin American literature and culture from Pre-Colonial times to the Present. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 554: Introduction to Spanish-English Interpretation (Dual-listed with SPAN 354). (Cross-listed with LING). (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: SPAN 351 Introduction to the theory, methods, techniques, and problems of consecutive and simultaneous interpretation. Consideration of material from business, agriculture, law, design, medicine, literature, advertisement, and sports. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 590: Special Topics in Spanish Cr. 1-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Spanish SPAN 590A: Special Topics in Spanish: Literature or Literary Criticism Cr. 1-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Spanish SPAN 590B: Special Topics in Spanish: Linguistics Cr. 1-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Spanish SPAN 590C: Special Topics in Spanish: Language Pedagogy Cr. 1-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Spanish SPAN 590D: Special Topics in Spanish: Civilization Cr. 1-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Spanish Courses primarily for graduate students, open to qualified undergraduate students SPAN 501: Advanced Composition and Grammar (Dual-listed with SPAN 401). (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: SPAN 314 and one course at the 320-level or above Advanced study of Spanish grammar and syntax. Students' writing of compositions incorporates an advanced understanding of grammar, syntax, and principles of organization of thought and ideas. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 526: Studies in Hispanic Art or Film (Dual-listed with SPAN 326). (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: 6 credits in Spanish literature or culture at 400 level Survey of major currents and figures in Spanish and Latin American art and/or film. SPAN 540: Seminar on the Literatures and Cultures of Spain (Dual-listed with SPAN 440). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: SPAN 330, SPAN 331, SPAN 332, or SPAN 333. (Recommended SPAN 330 and SPAN 331) Discussion and analysis of selected topics in Spanish literature and culture from the Middle Ages to the Present. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 541: Seminar on Cervantes and the Golden Age (Dual-listed with SPAN 441). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: SPAN 330, SPAN 331, SPAN 332, or SPAN 333. (SPAN 330 recommended) Discussion and analysis of selected works of Cervantes within the social and cultural context of the Golden Age. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 545: Seminar on the Literatures and Cultures of Latin America (Dual-listed with SPAN 445). (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. Prereq: SPAN 330, SPAN 331, SPAN 332, or SPAN 333. (SPAN 332 and SPAN 333 recommended) Discussion and analysis of selected topics in Latin American literature and culture from Pre-Colonial times to the Present. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 554: Introduction to Spanish-English Interpretation (Dual-listed with SPAN 354). (Cross-listed with LING). (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: SPAN 351 Introduction to the theory, methods, techniques, and problems of consecutive and simultaneous interpretation. Consideration of material from business, agriculture, law, design, medicine, literature, advertisement, and sports. Taught in Spanish. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. SPAN 590: Special Topics in Spanish Cr. 1-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor; 6 credits of 400 level Spanish WLC 107: Introduction to Swahili Cr. 1. Alt. S., offered irregularly. Prereq: None Basics of grammar and vocabulary within the context of the cultures where Swahili is spoken. For students whose native language is not Swahili. Taught in Swahili. Offered on-line. No WLC 119: Introduction to World Languages (Cross-listed with LING). (3-0) Cr. 3. Study of language diversity and the personal, social and political effects of diversity. Language families, attitudes toward language and language use, language and culture, multilingualism, foreign language learning, written codes, official languages, and language policy. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 205: World Religions (Cross-listed with RELIG). (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.SS. An introduction to religious studies – the academic study of religion. Religions from around the world will be discussed, including their myths, rituals, beliefs, values, and social forms. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 210: Introduction to Asian American Studies (Cross-listed with ANTHR). (3-0) Cr. 3. An interdisciplinary and chronological examination of Asian American immigration experiences from the early 19th century to the 21st century. Focus on how these immigration histories are accompanied by changing racial constructions. Discussion of racial stereotyping, the model minority myth, identity development, and efforts for social justice. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement WLC 270: Cultures in Transition (3-0) Cr. 3. An interdisciplinary introduction to a world region in a state of rapid social and cultural transition. Discussion of the history, social and political institutions, arts, economy, agriculture, and environment of the new nations. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 352: Religions of India (Cross-listed with RELIG). (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: Credit in ENG 250 Study of texts, practices, beliefs, historical development, and mutual influence of a variety of the religious traditions of India. Emphasis on Vedic religion and the diversity of traditions of Classical Hinduism; survey of Buddhist, Jain, Sikh, and South Asian Islamic traditions. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 353: Buddhism (Cross-listed with PHIL, RELIG). (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: PHIL 201 or PHIL 230 Central Buddhist positions and arguments on topics such as personal and social ethics, moral psychology, metaphysics, and the relationship between Buddhist thought and the sciences. Differences between Buddhist and Western approaches to philosophy. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 358: Islam (Cross-listed with RELIG). (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: Credit in ENG 250 An introduction to Islamic religion, culture, and society from its origins to the present. Topics include the Quran, the Prophet Muhammad, Islamic theology and philosophy, Islamic history, and Islam in America. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 359: The Quran (Cross-listed with RELIG). (3-0) Cr. 3. Prereq: Credit in ENG 250 A study of the Quran, the sacred text of Islam, with attention to its history, its major themes, and the diverse ways it is interpreted and applied. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 370: Topics in World Languages and Cultures in English Translation (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 9 credits. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women's writing, cinema, or cultural studies of a non-English speaking world culture or cultures. Readings, discussion, and written work in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 370A: Topics in World Languages and Cultures in English Translation: Global Sustainability (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 9 credits. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women's writing, cinema, or cultural studies of a non-English speaking world culture or cultures. Readings, discussion, and written work in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 370B: Topics in World Languages and Cultures in English Translation: Middle East (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 9 credits. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women's writing, cinema, or cultural studies of a non-English speaking world culture or cultures. Readings, discussion, and written work in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 370C: Topics in World Languages and Cultures in English Translation: Global Urban Cultures (3-0) Cr. 3. Repeatable, maximum of 9 credits. Topics vary according to faculty interest. Author, genre or period study, women's writing, cinema, or cultural studies of a non-English speaking world culture or cultures. Readings, discussion, and written work in English. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 417: Student Teaching Cr. 8-12. F.S. Prereq: minimum GPA of 2.5; Admission to teacher education, approval of coordinator during semester before student teaching Evaluation of instruction, lesson planning, and teaching in the liberal arts and sciences. WLC 417G: Student Teaching: World Language (Dual-listed with WLC 517G). (Cross-listed with EDUC). Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S. Prereq: Minimum GPA of 2.5; Admitted to Educator Preparation Program, approval of coordinator during semester before student teaching Evaluation of instruction, lesson planning, and teaching in world languages, secondary grades. WLC 484: Technology, Globalization and Culture (Dual-listed with WLC 584). (Cross-listed with M E, MKT). (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: Junior or senior classification for M E 484; graduate classification for M E 584. MKT 484: MKT 340. MKT 584: Restricted to College of Business graduate classification. Open to other graduate classifications with approval of College of Business Graduate office. Cross-disciplinary examination of the present and future impact of globalization with a focus on preparing students for leadership roles in diverse professional, social, and cultural contexts. Facilitate an understanding of the threats and opportunities inherent in the globalization process as they are perceived by practicing professionals and articulated in debates on globalization. Use of a digital forum for presenting and analyzing globalization issues by on-campus and off-campus specialists. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. WLC 486: Methods in Elementary School World Language Instruction (Cross-listed with EDUC, LING). (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: 25 credits in a world language Planning, implementation, and assessment of standards-based, student-centered, and thematic instruction in the elementary (K-8) classroom. Special emphasis on K-8 students' communicative skills, cultural knowledge, and content learning. WLC 487: Methods in Secondary School World Language Instruction (Cross-listed with EDUC, LING). (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: 25 credits in a world language, Admitted to Educator Preparation Program, OPI Theories and principles of contemporary world language learning and teaching. Special emphasis on designing instruction and assessments for active learning. WLC 491: Experiences Abroad: Learning to Think Globally (Cross-listed with INTST). (1-0) Cr. 1. Repeatable, maximum of 2 credits. Prereq: Minimum of 3 cr. study abroad and/or internship abroad Students returning from study abroad gain perspective on the personal, academic, and professional impact of their time spent abroad through readings and discussions. Students will be expected to make one presentation about the culture they experienced to an audience outside ISU. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. WLC 517G: Student Teaching: World Language (Dual-listed with WLC 417G). (Cross-listed with EDUC). Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S. Prereq: Minimum GPA of 2.5; Admitted to Educator Preparation Program, approval of coordinator during semester before student teaching Evaluation of instruction, lesson planning, and teaching in world languages, secondary grades. WLC 584: Technology, Globalization and Culture (Dual-listed with WLC 484). (Cross-listed with M E, MKT). (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: Junior or senior classification for M E 484; graduate classification for M E 584. MKT 484: MKT 340. MKT 584: Restricted to College of Business graduate classification. Open to other graduate classifications with approval of College of Business Graduate office. Cross-disciplinary examination of the present and future impact of globalization with a focus on preparing students for leadership roles in diverse professional, social, and cultural contexts. Facilitate an understanding of the threats and opportunities inherent in the globalization process as they are perceived by practicing professionals and articulated in debates on globalization. Use of a digital forum for presenting and analyzing globalization issues by on-campus and off-campus specialists. Meets International Perspectives Requirement. World Languages and Cultures B.A - French/German/Spanish Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 150 3 Humanities Choice 3 Language 101 4 Language 102 4 Elective 3 Humanities Choice 3 Humanties Choice 3 Natural Science Choice 2 Natural Science Choice 3 Social Science Choice 3 LIB 160 1 16 16 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits Language 201 4 Language 202 4 ENGL 250 3 Humanities Choice 3 Natural Science Choice 3 Social Science Choice 3 Social Science Choice 3 Elective 3 Elective 2 Elective 3 15 16 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits Language Choice - 300 Level 3 Language Choice - 300 Level 3 Language Choice - 300 Level 3 Language Choice - 300 Level 3 English Proficiency Requirement 3 Language Choice - 300 Level 3 Math Choice 3-4 Elective 3 Elective 3-4 Elective 3 15-17 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits Language Choice - 300 or 400 Level 3 Language Choice - 300 or 400 Level 3 Language Choice - 400 Level 3 Language Choice - 400 Level 3 Language Choice - 400 Leve 3 Language Choice - 400 Level 3 Electives 6 Electives 6 15 15 Graduate Programs Graduate Minor The Department of World Languages and Cultures offers course work leading to a graduate minor in French, German, Russian Studies or Spanish. The graduate minor in each of these languages is designed to provide an opportunity for graduate students to further their knowledge of that language to complement work in their major disciplines. The graduate minor provides formal recognition of student achievement and expertise in one of the languages above. Graduate minor credits are also offered in Greek. Prerequisites Graduate students who wish to minor in one of the languages above must have 400-level proficiency in that language. When this is not the case, the student may be required to take a language course below the 400-level, which would not count towards the graduate minor requirements. Course Requirements For the M.A. or M.S.: Three courses in the language of the minor. No more than three credits may be in courses numbered 401, 402, and 403. For the Ph.D.: Four courses in the language of the minor which must include at least one three credit course at the 500 level. No more than three credits may be in courses numbered 401, 402, or 403. At least two courses for the M.A. and the Ph.D. minors must be taken in residence at Iowa State University. Papers written for these courses are expected to have a content and depth commensurate with the graduate status of the student. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.