Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Public Relations Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plan Undergraduate Minor Concurrent Undergraduate and Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Contact Information Public Relations Program 101 Hamilton Hall greenlee.iastate.edu greenlee@iastate.edu 515-294-4342 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Public Relations PUBLIC RELATIONS http://www.greenlee.iastate.edu/ The public relations major provides students with the concepts, skills and expertise needed to help organizations build mutually beneficial relationships with diverse publics. The knowledge and tools students develop through the P R curriculum ensure they can enter fields such as corporate communication, government affairs, and public relations firms. Coursework in this major focuses on writing, research, digital and emerging media, and professional abilities. Students are required to complete a capstone internship experience to practice and refine their skills. The Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication prepares students for the field of communication. The school offers three majors: Advertising Bachelor of Arts (ADVRT) Journalism and Mass Communication Bachelor of Science (JL MC) Public Relations Bachelor of Science (P R) In addition, the Greenlee School offers a 4+1 program allowing students to complete their B.A. or B.S. and earn an M.S. in journalism and mass communication in fewer semesters. Professional skills are taught and practiced alongside academic requirements using the latest technology and leading-edge communication trends and methods. Founded in 1905, the unit was one of the first journalism programs to be accredited in 1948 and continues to be one of the longest continuously accredited programs in the country. Accreditation is based on the principle that students need a broad-based, liberal arts education and solid core courses within the discipline. Students taking one major at the school may not seek a second major or minor in the school. All students are required to take a second major or minor outside the school as an area of expertise. Student Learning Outcomes Students who major in programs of the Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication are expected to develop competencies in 12 key areas: understand and apply the principles and laws of freedom of speech and press for the country in which the institution that invites ACEJMC is located, as well as receive instruction in and understand the range of systems of freedom of expression around the world, including the right to dissent, to monitor and criticize power, and to assemble and petition for redress of grievances; demonstrate an understanding of the history and role of professionals and institutions in shaping communications; demonstrate an understanding of gender, race ethnicity, sexual orientation and, as appropriate, other forms of diversity in domestic society in relation to mass communications; demonstrate an understanding of the diversity of peoples and cultures and of the significance and impact of mass communications in a global society; understand concepts and apply theories in the use and presentation of images and information; demonstrate an understanding of professional ethical principles and work ethically in pursuit of truth, accuracy, fairness and diversity; think critically, creatively and independently; conduct research and evaluate information by methods appropriate to the communications professions in which they work; write correctly and clearly in forms and styles appropriate for the communications professions, audiences and purposes they serve; critically evaluate their own work and that of others for accuracy and fairness, clarity, appropriate style and grammatical correctness; apply basic numerical and statistical concepts; apply current tools and technologies appropriate for the communications professions in which they work, and to understand the digital world. The Public Relations Major To receive a bachelor of science degree in public relations, a student must earn at least 120 credits. A minimum of 72 credits must come from courses other than ADVRT, JL MC or P R. At least 50 of these credits must come from the liberal arts and sciences. Overall, at least 45 credits must be from 300-level or above. The degree requirements allow for a minimum of 34 credits and a maximum of 48 credits to be taken in ADVRT, JL MC and P R. These include: JL MC 110 Orientation to Journalism and Communication 1 P R 220 Principles of Public Relations 3 JL MC 201 Reporting and Writing for the Mass Media (C+ or better) 3 P R 301 Research and Strategic Planning for Advertising and Public Relations 3 P R 321 Public Relations Writing (C+ or better) 3 300-level ADVRT, JL MC or P R Electives 6 P R 424 Public Relations Campaigns 3 JL MC 460 Law of Mass Communication 3 JL MC 462 Media Ethics, Freedom, Responsibility 3 400-level ADVRT, JL MC, or P R Elective 3 P R 499A Professional Media Internship: Required 3 Total Credits 34 Public relations majors are also required to take: STAT 101 Principles of Statistics (or another approved statistics course) 4 These additional requirements apply: University Requirement: Students in all ISU majors must complete a three-credit course in U.S. Diversity, as well as a three-credit course in International Perspectives. The approved course lists are found at the following web addresses:(U.S. Diversity) http://www.registrar.iastate.edu/students/div-ip-guide/usdiversity-courses and (International Perspectives) http://www.registrar.iastate.edu/students/div-ip-guide/IntlPerspectives-current. Students must also demonstrate their communication proficiency by earning a grade of C or better in ENGL 250. College of LAS Requirement: Minimum of 120 credits, including a minimum of 45 credits at the 300-level and above. You must also complete the LAS World Language requirement and any unmet ISU admission requirements. Greenlee majors and minors cannot take ADVRT, JL MC or P R courses pass/not pass. Minor or Second Major: Students are required to fulfill a secondary area of expertise. This requirement can be met by declaring a minor or a second major outside of the Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication. Students taking one major at the school may not seek a second major or minor in the school. Juniors can apply to a concurrent degree program and earn a B.S. in public relations and an M.S. in journalism and mass communication in fewer semesters. Contact the Director of Graduate Education for more information on the Greenlee Schools' 4+1 Program. Public Relations, B.S. Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits JL MC 110 1 JL MC 201 3 P R 220 3 STAT 101 4 ENGL 150 3 U.S. Diversity 3 LIB 160 1 Arts & Humanities 3 Arts & Humanities 3 Natural Science 3 Natural Science 3 14 16 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits P R 301 3 P R 300-level choice 3 ENGL 250 3 Arts & Humanities 3 Arts & Humanities 3 Social Science 3 Natural Science 2 Social Science 3 World Language or Elective 4 World Language or Elective 4 15 16 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits Summer Credits P R 321 3 P R 424 3 P R 499A 3 PR/JL MC/ADVRT 300-level Choice 3 P R 400-level Choice 3 Minor/Second Major Choice 3 International Perspectives 3 Minor/Second Major Choice 3 Minor/Second Major Choice 3 Elective 300-level 3 Minor/Second Major Choice 300-level 3 15 15 3 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits JL MC 460 3 JL MC 462 3 P R/ADVRT/ JL MC 400-level Choice 3 ADVRT/JL MC/P R Short Course Intensive 1 ADVRT/JL MC/P R Short Course Intensive 1 Elective or Minor/Second Major Choice 3 Minor/Second Major Choice 300+ 3 Elective or Minor/Second Major Choice 3 Elective 300-level 3 Elective or Minor/Second Major Choice 300+ 3 13 13 Minor in Public Relations Students cannot select more than one minor in the Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication. Minors in the Greenlee School are not available to Greenlee majors. For a minor in public relations, students complete 15 credits including at least 6 credits in the courses numbered 300 or above taken at Iowa State University. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college or university requirement. JL MC 101 Mass Media and Society 3 P R 220 Principles of Public Relations 3 P R 305 Publicity Methods 3 6 credits from the following: 6 P R 301 Research and Strategic Planning for Advertising and Public Relations P R 323X Strategic Communication in Agriculture and the Environment P R 420 Crisis Communication JL MC 307 Digital Video Production JL MC 390 Professional Skills Development JL MC 401 Mass Communication Theory JL MC 406 Media Management JL MC 474 Communication Technology and Social Change JL MC 476 World Communication Systems JL MC 477 Diversity in the Media P R 497 Special Topics in Communication Total Credits 15 Greenlee majors and minors cannot take ADVRT, JL MC or P R courses pass/not pass. Concurrent Undergraduate and Graduate Programs The Greenlee School offers a 4+1 program allowing students to complete their B.A. or B.S. and earn an M.S. in journalism and mass communication in fewer semesters. The Greenlee School offers three concurrent degree programs: B.A. Advertising/M.S. Journalism and Mass Communication B.S. Journalism/M.S. Journalism and Mass Communication B.S. Public Relations/M.S. Journalism and Mass Communication Enrollment in the Greenlee School’s concurrent degree programs enables students to complete coursework for the undergraduate and graduate programs on a five-year accelerated timeline – rather than the typical six-year timeline for the two degrees. See Journalism and Mass Communication Concurrent Undergraduate and Graduate Programs for more information on combining the B.S. in Public Relations and the M.S. in Journalism and Mass Communication. GRADUATE PROGRAMS Master of Science The Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication offers work for a Master of Science degree in journalism and mass communication. Concurrent Programs The Greenlee School's concurrent degree programs enable interested students the opportunity to complete coursework for the undergraduate and graduate programs on a five-year accelerated timeline – rather than the typical six-year timeline for the two degrees. Graduate Minor The Greenlee School graduate program offers minor work for students majoring in other departments. See Journalism and Mass Communication Graduate Programs for more information on the M.S. in Journalism and Mass Communication. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.