Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Business Administration Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Graduate Programs Graduate Minor Contact Information Dr. Charles B. Handy Grad Programs 1420 Gerdin Business Bldg ivybusiness.iastate.edu busgrad@iastate.edu 515-294-8118 BBA Undergraduate Advising Union Pacific Undergraduate Programs Office 1200 Gerdin Business Bldg undergrad@iastate.edu 515-294-8300 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Business > Business Administration The Business Administration unit supports graduate and undergraduate programs in the departments of Accounting, Finance, Management and Entrepreneurship, Marketing, Supply Chain Management, and Information Systems and Business Analytics, by providing specialized coursework in orientation to business, professional development, and cooperative education opportunities. Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Degree For undergraduate curriculum in business, bachelor of business administration. The Department of Management and Entrepreneurship offers an undergraduate bachelor of business administration (BBA) degree. This degree-completer program is a general business degree that is offered online. The BBA is accessible if you have some prior college experience, and is aimed at working professionals with at least 45 college credits. Students will complete the general educations requirements (including business foundation courses), business core requirements for the bachelor of business administration (BBA) degree, and 21 additional credits in the major. The instructional objective of the BBA degree is to learn the foundation in all areas of business, and then through the required and elective upper-level coursework, build out specialized knowledge in specific areas of business to align with your personal and professional interests and include an emphasis on critical management and leadership skills. By enrolling in the BBA program, you will be able to balance full time employment, or other personal commitments, and the completion of a four-year degree in business. The major-specific coursework targets the following skills: Managing projects Negotiating and resolving conflicts Managing human resources Managing the supply chain Managing finances Managing a global and diverse workforce Managing sales and understanding consumer behavior For more information on the undergraduate bachelor of business administration, please visit: https://www.ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/bba/ Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, undergraduate students receiving a bachelors in Business Administration will: Be effective communicators Be effective collaborators Be problem solvers Understand business concepts Recognize ethical and legal responsibilities to organizations Curriculum: The department of Management and Entrepreneurship offers a fully online degree-completer program leading to a general business degree. This degree-completer program consists of 21 credits of coursework in the business administration major, including 9 credit hours of required core courses, and 12 credit hours of electives. While the General Education Requirements for the Bachelor of Business Administration degree remains the same as all other Business majors, there are specific changes in the following areas that must be completed in order to receive a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration. Pre-Professional Program - Foundation: (17) BUSAD 102 Business Learning Team Orientation 1 BUSAD 103 Orientation 1 COM S 113 Introduction to Spreadsheets and Databases 3 MATH 150 Discrete Mathematics for Business and Social Sciences 3 ECON 101 Principles of Microeconomics 3 or ECON 102 Principles of Macroeconomics STAT 226 Introduction to Business Statistics I * 3 ACCT 284 Financial Accounting 3 Supporting Courses: (6) ACCT 215 Legal Environment of Business 3 PHIL 230 Moral Theory and Practice 3 Electives: (15-18) Take additional "free" electives to fulfill the minimum graduation requirement of 120 credits. Professional Program - Business Core: (27) ACCT 285 Managerial Accounting # 3 MGMT 310 Entrepreneurship and Innovation 3 FIN 301 Principles of Finance 3 MGMT 371 Organizational Behavior 3 MGMT 372 Responsible Management and Leadership in Business 3 MIS 301 Management Information Systems 3 MKT 340 Principles of Marketing 3 SCM 301 Supply Chain Management 3 ------------------------------------- Above courses, with exception of MGMT 372, are prerequisites for, and must be taken prior to: MGMT 478 Strategic Management ^ 3 Professional Program - BBA Major Courses: (21) Required Courses (9 credits): MIS 340 Project Management 3 MGMT 422 Negotiation and Conflict Resolution 3 MGMT 471 Personnel and Human Resource Management 3 Elective Courses (12 credits): Choose ONE from each pairing SCM 424 Process Management, Analysis, and Improvement 3 or SCM 461 Principles of Transportation ------------------------------ ACCT 383 Intermediate Managerial Accounting 3 or FIN 330 Financial Markets and Institutions or FIN 371 Real Estate Principles -------------------------------- MGMT 414 International Management 3 or MGMT 472 Management of Diversity --------------------------------- MKT 342 Foundation Of Personal Selling 3 or MKT 447 Consumer Behavior * Transfer coursework may be a substitute for STAT 226 Introduction to Business Statistics I, if approved. # With the exception of ACCT 285 Managerial Accounting, pre-BBA students cannot take Professional Program - Business Core courses. ^ Requires completion of all core courses except MGMT 372 plus senior standing. Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minor taken outside the Ivy College of Business. BBA students cannot double major or earn a double degree in a business area. Online minors outside the Ivy College of Business could be added to the BBA if desired. Consult with an advisor in the Undergraduate Programs Office for assistance in identifying online minor options. Graduate Programs The Ivy College of Business offers a professional graduate degree program in business administration, the master of business administration (MBA), which is described below. The college also has six specialized master degree programs: the master of accounting (MAcc), the master of business analytics (MBS), the master of finance (MFIN), the master in healthcare analytics and operations (MHAO), the master of real estate development (MRED), and the master of science in information systems (MSIS). The college also offers a PhD in business and technology, with specializations in entrepreneurship, finance, information systems, management, marketing, and supply chain management. Finally, the Ivy College of Business is a participating member of the following interdepartmental programs: master of science in cyber security, master of engineering management, master of science and PhD in human computer interaction, master of science in seed technology and business, and master of science in transportation. Master of Business Administration (MBA) The Ivy College of Business offers a 48-credit program leading to a non-thesis master of business administration degree with a specialization in accounting, business analytics, finance, information systems, leadership, marketing, or supply chain management. The coursework is designed to provide the knowledge, skills, and abilities for managerial success and leadership in organizations. The MBA is the professional management education program for those pursuing careers in business. Students may enroll in the MBA on either a full-time or part-time basis. The part-time MBA is designed for employed professionals. Part-time MBA classes are hybrid, offering a combination of online and face-to-face instruction held in the evenings in downtown Des Moines. Students working toward the MBA are required to complete a series of core courses in the basic functional areas of business (accounting, economics, quantitative analysis, finance, supply chain management, organizational behavior, management information systems, marketing, professional responsibilities, and strategic management), as well as advanced elective coursework. Two courses on professional skills development are also required for full-time MBA students. Courses for the MBA are provided by the departments of Accounting, Economics, Finance, Management and Entrepreneurship, Marketing, Supply Chain Management, and Information Systems and Business Analytics. Courses from other departments may also be chosen to meet specific student interests. A concurrent BS/MBA is available to eligible engineering undergraduate students majoring in aerospace, agricultural, biological systems, chemical, civil, computer, construction, cybersecurity, electrical, industrial, materials science, mechanical, or software engineering. A concurrent BS/MBA is available to eligible undergraduate students majoring in agricultural systems technology, agronomy, animal science, chemistry, computer science, food science, geology, industrial design, industrial technology, and meteorology. Graduate Certificates The Ivy College of Business currently has five graduate certificate programs, including: Business Analytics Enterprise Cybersecurity Entrepreneurship and Innovation Finance Supply Chain Management Each certificate requires 12 credits--with approval of the director of graduate education (DOGE), all 12 credits may apply towards a future Ivy graduate program. Certificates may be earned before, after, or concurrently with a master's or doctoral degree. For more information on any of the graduate certificates offered, please visit: https://www.ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/zgraduate-certificates/ Double master’s degree programs are offered with architecture (MArch/MBA), community and regional planning (MBA/MCRP), finance (MBA/MFIN), and information systems (MBA/MSIS). A double degree program (DVM/MBA) is also available to eligible Veterinary Medicine students. The MBA program is open to all individuals with a baccalaureate degree. Undergraduates from arts and humanities, science, and technical programs are especially encouraged to apply. Academic potential and promise for a productive career in business and for managerial success and leadership in organizations are important criteria for admission. Applicants must submit official transcripts of previous academic work, Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) scores or Graduate Record Exam (GRE) scores, personal essays, a resume, and two letters of reference. International students whose native language is not English and who did not graduate from a U.S. college or university are required to submit the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or International English Language Testing System (IELTS) scores. Applicants are considered for fall semester entry only into the full-time MBA. Although applications will be considered after this date, candidates are encouraged to submit their application materials by June 1 (March 1 for international students). Part-time MBA applications are considered for fall, spring, or summer entry. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, MBA students will: Demonstrate effective communication skills Effectively lead and work in diverse teams Critically solve business problems Integrate ethical and global perspectives in decision making For more information about the MBA program in any of the areas of specialization listed above, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/mba/ Executive Masters in Business Administration (EMBA) The EMBA program is for professionals in the food, agriculture, and biosystems industry. The curriculum is a 48-credit program leading to a non-thesis master of business administration degree. The customized content is delivered 80% in-person, and 20% online. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, executive MBA (EMBA) students will: Be effective leaders Be effective collaborators Be critical thinkers in food, agriculture, and biosystems Recognize ethical and global responsibilities around food, agriculture, and biosystems For more information on the EMBA program, please visit: http://www.ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/emba/ Ph.D. in Business and Technology The doctoral program at the Ivy College of Business is a full-time, residential program that prepares individuals to conduct and publish scholarly research in top journals. Graduates compete for academic positions at leading research universities in the United States and abroad. There are six specializations: entrepreneurship, finance, management information systems, management, marketing, and supply chain management. Admission to the program is highly selective, with up to 12 students admitted annually. Applications are evaluated based on academic merit, compatibility of interests, and research ability. A master's degree is not required, but students without a sufficient business background and basic knowledge of statistics will take extra courses. This 74-credit program requires a minimum of four years to complete. Coursework in the first two years includes seminars in content areas, statistics and research methodology. After passing comprehensive exams, students focus on their dissertation. All work, including the dissertation, must be done in residence (on campus). In addition to coursework, students participate in research seminars, work on research projects with faculty, and attend academic conferences. Students can choose one of six areas of specialization: ENTSP, FIN, MIS, MGMT, MKT, or SCM. The doctoral specialization in entrepreneurship (ENTSP) prepares students to conduct and publish scholarly research in entrepreneurship, including focus on new business ventures, entrepreneurs, innovation, and technology. In addition to curriculum in these core areas, students will also take courses in research methods and the closely-related areas of management, including strategy, organizational behavior, and human resources. The goal of this program is to prepare students to compete for tenure-track positions at leading research universities in the United States and abroad. As a doctoral candidate, students will learn how to conduct impactful research, and they are expected to develop a research pipeline and publish their work in top academic journals before entering the job market. The finance (FIN) specialization trains students to teach at the university level, to do research that is publishable in top academic journals, and to analyze questions that are important to government agencies and the private sector. Successful students develop close working relationships with the ISU finance faculty, both in the classroom and on co-authored research. We strive for our students to publish their first research study before finishing the program, and to obtain jobs at universities rated "high" or "very high" in research activity by the Carnegie Foundation. We emphasize rigorous training and hands-on experience. Five semesters of coursework include a firm grounding in economic theory, thorough training in statistics and econometrics, and an immersion in the most important research studies in corporate finance, investments, and financial institutions. The management information systems (MIS) specialization examines issues related to the development, building, management, and use of information and knowledge-based technologies. Such technologies enable users to collect organizational data, provide a platform for organizing and disseminating the data, and offer operational, decision support, and knowledge management tools through which users can leverage data and information for making better organizational decisions. Students in the IS specialization will study areas such as information technology analysis and development, database and knowledge management systems, decision support and data mining, human computer interaction, system security and integrity, and project management and collaborative teamwork. The management (MGMT) specialization applies a broad range of theoretical perspectives from the social sciences and diverse research methods to the study of organizational behavior, human resources, strategy, and entrepreneurship. The curriculum takes a multidisciplinary approach to analyze individuals and teams, the formulation and implementation of strategy, the effective use of human resources, social responsibility and ethics, entrepreneurship, innovation and technology, and the challenges of the global business environment. The program emphasizes personalized attention and the development of scholars who can contribute with high-quality theoretical and empirical research in these and related areas. The marketing (MKT) area focuses on identification and delivery of solutions that help improve the ways in which businesses attract, capture, service and maintain customers. To do these activities well, organizations will need to integrate process goals and activities across different functional areas and across multiple organizational partners. This area of study will examine issues relating to inter-functional and inter-organizational relationships and their management in pursuit of maximizing the lifetime value of a businesses’ customer base. The supply chain management (SCM) specialization focuses on the design, development, and control of business processes for conversion of inputs into outputs and distribution of those outputs. The traditional focus of SCM was on integration of processes across multiple functions within the firm—operations management, logistics, and purchasing primarily, with elements of marketing and information systems included as well. However, in today’s world, where competition occurs across supply chain networks, SCM also involves integrating business processes across firms. Programs of study for the doctoral study are designed for each student in consultation with the major professor and the student’s PhD committee. Each student must complete advanced courses in his/her area of specialization, a minor area that supports the major area, and research methods courses. Students must demonstrate competence in theory and research methods by passing qualifying examinations. The final application deadline for the PhD program is January 15 for fall admission. Applicants must submit official transcripts of previous coursework and degrees, Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) scores or Graduate Record Exam (GRE) scores, personal essays, a resume, and three letters of reference. International students whose native language is not English and who did not graduate from a U.S. college or university are required to submit TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) scores. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, PhD students will be able to: Understand and advance knowledge Create knowledge through original research Teach effectively in an institution of higher education For more information about the PhD program in any of the areas of specialization listed above, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/phd/ Graduate Minor in Business Administration The Ivy College of Business also offers a business administration minor to students with majors outside the college. In order to obtain a graduate minor in business administration at Iowa State University, a student must complete eighteen credit hours of the required core courses for the major in business administration. A student who wishes to minor in business administration must have full admission status in his/her respective graduate program and must be in good academic standing (graduate transcript required). Required Courses (9 credits): ACCT 501 Financial Accounting 3 MGMT 502 Organizational Behavior 3 MGMT 503 Professional Responsibility in Business and Society 3 Choose THREE additional courses from the list below (9 credits): FIN 501 Financial Valuation and Corporate Financial Decisions 3 MKT 501 Marketing 3 SCM 501 Supply Chain Management 3 MIS 501 Management Information Systems 3 Applications for the graduate minor in business administration are accepted for fall semester entry only. For more information on the graduate minor in business administration, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/zgraduate-minors/ Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.