Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Nursing, Nursing Leadership Concentration, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (40 UNITS) Master of Science in Nursing The Master of Science degree in Nursing (MS) prepares students for a specialty focus to expand their career options. The MS program is designed to foster interdisciplinary collaborative skills and independent functioning within a focused specialty area, called an MS concentration. Current MS concentrations are: Nursing Leadership, Nurse Anesthetist, School Nursing, Nurse Educator and Women’s Health Care. Within the Women’s Health Care concentration, students will choose an emphasis as either a nurse midwife or women’s health nurse practitioner. The Nursing Leadership, School Nursing and Women’s Health Care concentrations are flexible, allowing for either full-time or part-time study. The Nurse Anesthetist concentration follows a set full-time schedule. High quality resources, both on and off campus, are available for the MS concentrations. Application Deadlines The Graduate Nursing program accepts applications for the fall semester only. University Application The application period opens the previous Oct. 1, and closing date depends on enrollment across the campus. It is best to apply as soon as applications are open. Applications may be accessed online at: calstate.edu/apply. School of Nursing Application Deadlines The Nurse Anesthetist concentration accepts applications Nov. 1-30. All other concentrations have a priority deadline of Jan. 5. Applications received after that date will be considered on a space available basis until the program is full or the university closes admissions. Admission Requirements and Procedures School of Nursing admission requirements and application procedures vary by program and concentration. The School of Nursing and university application procedures can be found on the school’s website: nursing.fullerton.edu. Nursing Leadership Concentration (40 units) The Nursing Leadership concentration is offered in campus-based and online formats, utilizing distance methodologies. Community-based mentors are contracted to work with students in practicum settings. In consultation with an advisor, mentors and practicum sites are matched to students’ individual interests and goals. The Nursing Leadership concentration includes a project or thesis, and is offered on a part-time or full-time schedule basis. Core Requirements (12 units) NURS 501 - Theoretical Perspectives for Nursing Practice (3) NURS 505A - Nursing Research and Evaluation for Practice (3) NURS 505B - Seminar in Nursing Research (3) NURS 507 - Advanced Decision Making: Nursing Issues Seminar (3) Concentration Requirements (24 units) NURS 508 - Advanced Nursing: Vulnerable Populations (3) NURS 511 - Theoretical Basis of Leadership and Organizations in Nursing (3) NURS 513 - Nursing Service Economics (3) NURS 514 - Nursing Service Leadership Practicum I (3) NURS 518 - Healthcare Quality and Safety (3) NURS 519 - Informatics in Healthcare (3) NURS 520 - Advanced Concepts in Leadership of Health Care Systems (3) Culminating Experience (4 units) NURS 597A - Project (2) NURS 597B - Project (2) or NURS 598A - Thesis (2) NURS 598B - Thesis (2) Certificate in Instructional Design and Technology Students in the MS Nursing Leadership blended model concentration, utilizing distance methodologies, may elect three additional courses (9 units) and gain a certificate in Instructional Design and Technology. This certificate will be offered in collaboration with the Department of Education, requires a separate application and is tailored to prepare nursing leaders with basics in instructional design and technology, instructional approaches, and computer-based design principles. IDT 520 - Instructional Design 1: Issues in ELearning and the Design Process (3) IDT 525 - Learning Theories for Postsecondary and Adult Instructional Settings (3) IDT 530 - Instructional Design 2: Advanced Issues in Implementation, Management and Program Evaluation (3) Total (40 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).