Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Pharmacology and Toxicology Minor Select a section... Overview Requirements Contact Information Seth Shatto Program Coordinator vetmed.iastate.edu/bms/academics/pharmtox-undergraduate-minor sshatto@iastate.edu 515-294-2440 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Veterinary Medicine > Pharmacology and Toxicology Minor Pharmacology and Toxicology - Undergraduate Minor The interdisciplinary pharmacology and toxicology minor is intended to significantly increase the number of ISU graduates who can: Understand, use and define key terms and concepts related to pharmacology and toxicology; Apply concepts and standard practices in pharmacology and toxicology to solving practical problems relevant to these fields; Analyze scientific data in pharmacology and toxicology; Synthesize detailed and accurate descriptions of current knowledge on key topics in pharmacology and toxicology; Make informed decisions about current controversies in pharmacology and toxicology, using appropriate scientific methods and ethical reasoning. The minor in Pharmacology and Toxicology may be earned by completing the following courses. All minors require at least 15 credits; 9 credits of the courses listed in the minor must not be used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement except the credit requirement for graduation. There are three required courses for all Pharmacology and Toxicology undergraduate minors: TOX 401, B M S 439, and one physiology course selected from B M S 329, BIOL 334 or BIOL 335. The remaining credits are fulfilled by any of the electives listed below. TOX 401 Principles of Toxicology 3 B M S 439 Principles of Pharmacology 4 Select one of the following: 3-4 B M S 329 Anatomy and Physiology of Domestic Animals BIOL 335 Principles of Human and Other Animal Physiology Total Credits 10-11 Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.