Skip to Content Skip to main content Search X Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines ﻿ Search ﻿ Menu Academic Catalog eCourseware umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost’s Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College eCourseware Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Administrative Support President’s Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online ﻿Instagram ﻿Facebook ﻿twitter ﻿Youtube ﻿Linkedn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance…” 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct. University of Memphis May 31, 2022 UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog Select a Catalog Online Catalogs UOFM 2022-2023 UNDERGRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UOFM 2022-2023 GRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog * [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs College and Department Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home About Graduate School About Graduate Catalog APPLY NOW! Courses Degree Programs Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s Programs Academic Regulations Academic Services Admission Regulations Minimum Graduate Degree Requirements Expenses Faculty and Staff Resources Research Resources University Calendar Catalog Archives My Portfolio HELP UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Music Education (K-12), (MAT) Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Return to: Degree Programs MAT Program Admission Applicants must complete admissions requirements to be admitted. All admissions requirements must be met prior to being admitted into the MAT program. MAT admission requirements are designed to be both competitive and selective, to be knowledge and performance-based, to be clear and consistent, to maintain diversity, and to meet or exceed undergraduate requirements and minimum state requirements. To be admitted to the MAT program a candidate must complete an application through the Office of Graduate Admissions which includes an official transcript reflecting an earned bachelor’s degree with a 2.75 or higher grade point average from an accredited institution. Applicants with a successful professional career may appeal this grade point average requirement. Documentation of a “successful professional career” is necessary and may include, but is not limited to, items such as an administrators’ letter of recommendation, teacher evaluations, lesson plans, teaching video, etc. Teacher Education Program (TEP) Admission Students who plan to pursue a graduate program of studies leading to teacher licensure must submit a formal application to the College of Education Teacher Education Program (TEP). Students are encouraged to apply for admission into TEP as soon as they enroll in any College of Education courses. TEP admissions deadlines are September 15 for fall and January 31 for spring. Requirements for provisional admission into TEP include: A grade point average of 3.25 at the graduate level and undergraduate grade point average of 3.0 or higher; Pass all sections of the CORE Academic Skills for Educators; Pass the Praxis II Content Knowledge Exam required by the State of Tennessee for the licensure area being pursued. TBI Background Check Completion of teacher aptitude survey Requirements for full admission to TEP must be completed prior to the Clinical Teaching Semester and/or the semester candidates enroll in ICL 7993 . They include: 3.25 graduate grade point average Passed Praxis II licensure exams Passing scores on all required Praxis II Licensure Exams for Licensure and Graduation: Candidates participating in the Clinical Teaching Semester and/or ICL 7993 must submit a successful Teacher Performance Assessment (edTPA). Candidates who seek a Practitioner License must have a composite of 3.0 on the Teacher Evaluation used in their employing district. Students must be provisionally admitted to the Teacher Education Program (TEP) before completing all Level I courses and starting Level II courses. (Level I Professional Core courses provide requisite foundations for teaching and should be completed before taking Level II Professional Specialization courses that focus on specialized strategies for teaching and learning in educational environments). Students who do not apply to TEP or fail to maintain criteria during the program will not be allowed to continue in the program. NOTE: MAT admission, TEP admission, and Graduate School admission are separate procedures. Program Requirements Students seeking licensure and the MAT degree must take a minimum of 30-46 graduate semester hours, depending on program and licensure area. Minimum hours may increase depending on licensure requirements. Students who are employed by a school district on a Practitioner License may have the Level III (clinical teaching semester) waived if they provide the necessary documentation to verify one year of successful teaching experience in their area of licensure with a composite Teacher Evaluation Score of 3.0 or higher. Students in this category should contact the Teacher Education Office in 202 Ball Hall for specific requirements. Please note that all initial licensure candidates, including candidates who on a Job-Embedded Practitioners License, must take ICL 7993 , either along with clinical teaching semester or the last semester before applying for license if working on a Practitioner License. This course serves as the culminating experience and will require successful completion of the Teacher Performance Assessment (edTPA) to be able to be recommended for licensure. Concentration Requirements: MUSE 7402 - Hist Phil Music Ed ** MUSE 6802 - Level I Orff-Schulwerk MUSE 7607 - Choral Rehearsal Tech ** MUSE 7608 - Instr Ens Rehearsl Tech ** Return to: Degree Programs Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 University of Memphis. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).