Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Geography, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) This program provides advanced study in human and physical geography with an emphasis on theory and research. Graduates are prepared in the application of interpretive and analytical concepts and techniques to a broad spectrum of geographic situations. Such study directly serves those whose careers involve urban, regional, and environmental planning and geographic education. Geographic perspectives and methods are highly applicable to a wide range of careers in business, industry and government. Admission and Conditional Classification Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, the department requires a grade-point average of at least 3.0 in the last 60 semester units attempted and a 3.0 grade-point average in all geography courses. Students who have no, or a limited, background in geography will be expected to make up the deficit by taking appropriate coursework in consultation with the departmental graduate adviser. All students are required to demonstrate competency in each of geography’s four main subfields: human, physical, regional and technical. Competency is normally demonstrated by completion of at least 18 units at the upper-division or graduate level with a 3.0 grade-point average. Graduate Standing - Classified After completing all prerequisites and removing deficiencies, the student must develop an approved study plan in consultation with a personal faculty adviser and the graduate program adviser in order to be classified. All students must complete six units of upper-division technical courses. Three units are prerequisite to classified standing. If the remaining three units were not taken as undergraduate work, they may be included in the study plan. Required Courses GEOG 500 - Geographic Research Design (3) GEOG 520 - Seminar in Physical Geography (3) GEOG 550 - Seminar in Human Geography (3) GEOG 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) One additional 500-level geography course (3) Electives (12-15 units) Senior-level or graduate coursework in geography (15 units unless approved for thesis; may include additional GEOG 500-level courses; up to six units from related fields). Thesis or Comprehensive Exam (0-3 units) GEOG 598 - Thesis (3) (department approval required) Additional Information Students must follow one of two plans - Plan A, requiring a comprehensive examination; or Plan B, requiring a thesis. Plan A requires the development of a specific field of interest and a written, three-part comprehensive exam testing knowledge in human geography, physical geography and the student’s specified area of interest. The examination may be repeated only once. Plan B requires the development of a specific field of interest, a written thesis and a subsequent oral defense. All students will follow Plan A unless approval for the thesis option is granted. In order to follow Plan B, the thesis option, students must have the written consent of their thesis supervisor and all members of a thesis committee. Permission to write a thesis may be granted only to students who have: (1) achieved a 3.25 grade-point average after 15 units of upper-division and graduate coursework; and (2) demonstrated proficiency in research and writing skills. For further details or advisement, communicate with the Department of Geography graduate program adviser. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).