Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in International Studies Select a section... Overview Secondary Major Requirements Undergraduate Minor Contact Information Chad Gasta 3102 Pearson Hall las.iastate.edu gasta@iastate.edu 515-294-0198 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > International Studies Overview Interdepartmental Undergraduate Secondary Major and Minor, Administered by the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Through a combination of coursework and study abroad, students who complete a secondary major or minor in International Studies can prepare for careers or advanced study in the international arena, such as foreign service, journalism, advocacy organizations, scientific or research institutions, business, nongovernmental development organizations (NGOs), humanitarian agencies, environmental organizations, human rights organizations, think tanks, international agriculture, and international engineering. Students in International Studies gain an understanding of global issues, learn to communicate across cultures, develop awareness of cultural ideas and attitudes, and are well positioned to become global leaders in their chosen field. A secondary major and a minor in International Studies are available for undergraduates. The program requirements are structured around a combination of a designated Topical Module and a Geographic Region, both selected by the student. Each student’s program of study is designed to reflect opportunities at Iowa State University as well as the academic, intellectual, and professional interests of the student. Student Learning Outcomes Upon completion of the second major in International Studies, students will be able to: 1. Read, write and speak a language other than their native language at an intermediate level to effectively communicate with people from other cultures. 2. Understand factual knowledge about world economic and political systems, events, cultures, and geography and to critically analyze global issues, especially as they relate to globalization. 3. Understand, interpret, and articulate the major processes, theories, and problems of a selected contemporary global issue within a selected world region to also recognize interconnections between local and global issues and events. 4. Live, study, work, and/or volunteer in a selected world region in order to understand, interpret and articulate major cultural values and issues and to appreciate the impact of one’s own cultural and educational experience on their perception of the world. Secondary Major A student seeking a secondary major in International Studies must successfully complete two core courses plus courses in a selected Geographic Region and Topical Module; demonstrate proficiency in a language relevant to the selected geographic region (see below); and participate in a required study, service, or work abroad program (see below). Requirements for the Secondary Major in International Studies: INTST 235 Introduction to International Studies INTST 430 Seminar in International Studies 9 credits of coursework (at least 6 of which are numbered 300 or above) from one of the following Geographic Regions: Africa and the Middle East Asia Latin America Western Europe Russia, East Europe and Central Asia 9 credits of coursework (at least 6 of which are numbered 300 or above) from one of the following Topical Modules: Global Environmental Issues Globalization and Economic Development International Issues in Science and Technology International Communication International Conflict Social and Cultural Change Click here for courses approved for credit for the Geographic Regions and Topical Modules. 3 additional credits of coursework selected from either the Geographic Region or Topical Module. Language Proficiency Proficiency in a world language that is relevant to the selected geographic region. This can be achieved by completing the 202 level (or higher) of the language. Students whose first language is not English must still meet this requirement if their first language is not relevant to their selected geographic region. Study/Service/Work Abroad Experience Study, service, or internship abroad for a minimum of 3 weeks, earning a minimum of 3 credits. The credits must be transferable to Iowa State. The major must include a minimum of 12 credits not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Minor A student seeking a minor in International Studies must successfully complete two core courses plus courses in a selected Geographical Region and Topical Module; demonstrate proficiency in a language relevant to the selected geographic region (see below); and participate in a required study, service, or work abroad program (see below). Requirements for the Minor in International Studies: INTST 235 Introduction to International Studies INTST 430 Seminar in International Studies 6 credits of coursework (at least 3 of which are numbered 300 or above) from one of the following Geographic Regions: Africa and the Middle East Asia Latin America Western Europe Russia, East Europe and Central Asia 6 credits of coursework (at least 3 of which are numbered 300 or above) from one of the following Topical Modules: Global Environmental Issues Globalization and Economic Development International Issues in Science and Technology International Communication International Conflict Social and Cultural Change Proficiency in a world language that is relevant to the selected geographic region. This can be achieved by completing the 202 level (or higher) of the language. Study, service, or internship abroad for a minimum of 3 weeks, earning a minimum of 3 credits. The credits must be transferable Iowa State. Click here for courses approved for credit for the Geographic Regions and Topical Modules. The minor must include a minimum of 9 credits not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Language Proficiency Proficiency in a world language that is relevant to the selected geographic region. This can be achieved by completing the 202 level (or higher) of the language or by passing an approved exam. Students whose first language is not English must still meet this requirement if their first language is not relevant to their selected geographic region. Study/Service/Work Abroad Experience Study, service, or internship abroad for a minimum of 3 weeks, earning a minimum of 3 credits. The credits must be transferable to Iowa State. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.