Skip to Content About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Research Quick Links Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs The Second Century Campaign Virtual Tour Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More ﻿ Alumni Parents News Media Faculty/Staff ﻿ Apply ﻿ Give ﻿ Get Involved ﻿ Follow Us ﻿ ﻿ Twitter ﻿ Facebook ﻿ Instagram ﻿ LinkedIn ﻿ YouTube ﻿ Social Stream ﻿ Apply Give Get Involved ☰ About SMU ﻿ About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center A nationally ranked private university with seven degree-granting schools, SMU is a distinguished center for teaching and research located near the heart of Dallas. SMU’s 11,000 students benefit from small classes, research opportunities, leadership development, international study and innovative programs. The University is strengthened by its partnership with the Dallas region, a global center of commerce and culture. SMU students, faculty and alumni are changing the world through their chosen fields, civic engagement and service to society. Academics ﻿ Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Study Abroad Continuing & Professional Education International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Teaching and research fuse into breakthrough experiences in one of the brightest academic communities in the world. Our 11:1 student-to-faculty ratio means students build strong relationships with outstanding faculty who champion their ambition and drive, whether it’s for tackling climate change, fighting cancer or pursuing another passion. Admission ﻿ Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour SMU’s singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We’d like to help you shape yours. Apply Now Schedule a Visit Athletics ﻿ SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports SMU offers 16 nationally competitive sports programs and more than 30 individual and team intramural activities. We prepare student-athletes for life by equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to become valuable citizens and leaders in their communities. Campus Life Research Quick Links ﻿ Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs The Second Century Campaign Virtual Tour SMU is one of only nine universities affiliated with a presidential library. The George W. Bush Presidential Center (left) offers unique learning experiences to SMU students – including free admission to museum exhibits – plus research opportunities for faculty and scholars from around the world. Bush Center Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Southern Methodist University May 31, 2022 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog Select a Catalog Bulletin of Southern Methodist University Volume CV 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home University Calendar About SMU Catalog Policy and Legal Statement The University Curriculum Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Cox School of Business Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Simmons School of Education and Human Development Interdisciplinary Programs Majors and Minors Course Descriptions Admission Transfer Pathway Guides to SMU Enrollment and Academic Records Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Student Life and Housing Right to Know Educational Facilities and Services Educational Programs Administration and Faculty Financial Information Bulletin 2019-2020 My Catalog HELP 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Real Estate Finance, B.B.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Return to: Majors and Minors To earn the B.B.A. degree with a major in real estate finance, students must complete all University-wide requirements and the core B.B.A. degree requirements , and satisfy the following additional requirements: Note: The core real estate courses must be taken through enrollment at SMU. Requirements for the Major Real Estate Core (12 Credit Hours) RE 3381 - Real Estate Fundamentals RE 4338 - Real Estate Law RE 4382 - Real Estate Markets and Valuation RE 4389 - Real Estate Finance Electives (6 Credit Hours) Selected from the following: ACCT 4307 - Business Modeling with Spreadsheets or ITOM 4307 - Business Modeling with Spreadsheets BUSE 4332 - Energy and Environmental Law CISB 5397 - Entrepreneurship: Starting a Business (if senior core is completed with STRA 5370 ) FINA 4325 - Advanced Financial Management FINA 4326 - Investment Analysis and Portfolio Management FINA 4327 - Derivatives FINA 4328 - Management of Financial Institutions FINA 4329 - International Finance FINA 5331 - Advanced Concepts in Financial Management FINA 5332 - Practicum in Asset and Wealth Management MNO 3373 - Negotiations MNO 4361 - Project Management RMI 3360 - Principles of Risk Management Return to: Majors and Minors Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 Southern Methodist University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).