Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Anthropology, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) The program offers advanced study of general anthropology, while simultaneously encouraging specialization in one (or more) of the anthropological subdisciplines: archaeology; cultural anthropology; anthropological linguistics; and evolutionary anthropology. Opportunities for field and laboratory research, and other related learning experiences permit students to enlarge upon formal classroom training and work independently with original data. Students may pursue a thesis or project of either a traditional or more exploratory character. Efforts are made to assist individuals to plan programs that will meet their individual needs and interests. Application Deadlines and Procedure There are two steps in the application process: (1) apply online to the university (see Cal State Apply); and (2) apply to the department, in care of the Graduate Program Adviser (see anthro.fullerton. edu/Grad.htm). Arrange to have two letters of recommendation sent to the Graduate Program Adviser. Please check with the graduate adviser (below) for department deadlines. Carl Wendt, Archaeology Barbra Erickson, Cultural Anthropology John Patton, Evolutionary Anthropology Prerequisites Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, admission to conditionally classified standing is contingent upon evaluation and acceptance by the Graduate Affairs Committee. The Department of Anthropology requires a grade-point average of 3.0 in all undergraduate coursework in anthropology. Students with limited subject or grade deficiencies may be considered for admission to the program if they agree to complete, with at least a “B” (3.0) average, additional courses selected by the Graduate Study Committee. Subject deficiencies must be met prior to candidacy. In addition, they are required to take the graduate record exam (GRE) during the year prior to applying to the program. Students entering the M.A. program from other fields or other departments of anthropology should discuss appropriate course substitution with the graduate adviser. The department does not permit substitutions for the core courses. Classification A student who meets the requirements for conditionally classified graduate standing, as well as the following requirements, will be granted classified graduate standing upon the development of an approved study plan: A bachelor’s degree with a minimum of 21 units in anthropology, including the following courses or their equivalents: Core Courses (15 units) ANTH 101 Introduction to Biological Anthropology ANTH 102 Introduction to Cultural Anthropology ANTH 103 Introduction to Archaeology ANTH 480 History of Anthropology ANTH 481 Contemporary Anthropology Additional Upper-Division Courses (12 units) Reading courses and special examinations may be substitutes for the additional upper-division coursework in anthropology A GPA of “B” (3.0) or better for all work taken in anthropology Classification review administered by the graduate adviser Study Plan Required Courses (18 units) ANTH 504T - Seminar: Selected Topics in Anthropology (3) * ANTH 510 - Research Design in Anthropology (3) ANTH 511 - Theory and Method in Evolutionary Anthropology (3) ANTH 512 - Theory and Method in Archaeology (3) ANTH 513 - Theory and Method in Cultural/Linguistic Anthropology (3) Electives (6-9 units) Electives may be additional ANTH 504T seminars, ANTH 599 Independent Study or 400-level courses. Exit Option (3-6 units) ANTH 597 - Project (3-6) (3) ANTH 598 - Thesis (3-6) (3) ANTH 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) Additional Information * Must be repeated for a total of 6 units For continuation in the program, a “B” (3.0) average must be maintained for all work in the study plan. Students must remain continuously enrolled, either by enrolling in at least one Anthropology course each semester or by enrolling in Graduate Studies 700. Students may request a waiver of this requirement for one or two semesters if professional purposes require absence from campus. A student who is not continuously enrolled will be required to apply for readmission to the program. A thesis or a project, including an oral examination, must be completed for the degree. The progress of graduate students will be reviewed prior to classification and again before advancement to candidacy. Students must demonstrate competence in a foreign language or quantitative methods. For further information, consult the Anthropology graduate program adviser. See also the Department of Anthropology’s website (anthro.fullerton.edu). Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).