Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Biology, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) The M.S. in Biology is a thesis-based degree for which the student completes original, independent research in one of the following areas: Cell and Developmental Biology, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Marine Biology, Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, or Biology Pedagogy Research. Admission Requirements Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, acceptance into this program is contingent upon the following: (1) a B.A. or B.S. in Biological Science or related area at an accredited institution with a 3.0 GPA in biology courses and 2.5 GPA in the related courses in mathematics, chemistry and physics; (2) submitting scores from the Graduate Record Examination General Test, Medical College Admission Test or Dental Admission Test; (3) completing the departmental application; (4) submitting two letters of recommendation; and (5) acceptance by a thesis adviser. Students with deficiencies may be considered for conditional acceptance into the program. For conditionally accepted students, the specific conditions and a deadline for their completion are determined at the time of admission; continuation in the M.S. program is dependent upon completion of the admission conditions by the specified deadline. Application Deadlines Departmental applications for fall admissions are usually due April 1. Check the Department of Biological Science website at https://www.fullerton.edu/biology for annual deadlines and additional information. A completed departmental application and all required documents must be received by the published deadlines. Classified Standing Students should achieve classified graduate standing as soon as they are eligible, because no more than 13 units of graduate work taken before classification can be included on the study plan (see below) for the degree. A student who meets the admission requirements may apply for classified standing, which requires the development of a study plan approved by the thesis adviser, thesis committee, department M.S. graduate program adviser and associate vice president for Academic Programs. Students admitted with conditional acceptance must meet conditions (see above) before being considered for classified standing. Advancement to Candidacy Advancement to candidacy is attained by requesting a graduation check and paying the subsequent fee. Study Plan Students must meet the Graduate Level Writing Requirement, which is described in this catalog under “Graduate Regulations.” Biology M.S. candidates will meet this requirement by passing BIOL 500A , BIOL 500B . At least one-half of the study plan’s total units must be at the 500 level. All study plans must include: BIOL 500A - Professional Aspects of Biology (1) BIOL 500B - Professional Aspects of Biology (1) BIOL 580D - Biology Colloquium (1) BIOL 598 - Thesis (1-3) BIOL 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) Thesis A thesis acceptable to the thesis adviser and committee, covering a research problem, as well as a thesis defense and a public presentation on the thesis research, are required to complete the degree program. Supervising the work of graduate students requires the personal attention of advisers. To insure that advisers are available for new graduate students, a graduate student is expected to complete the requirements for graduation within three years after classification. For more detailed information or advisement, students should contact the Department of Biological Science or the department M.S. graduate program adviser at biogradadv@fullerton.edu. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).