Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Teaching Science, M.A.T.-S Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) The primary objectives of the Master of Arts in Teaching Science are to: provide advanced coursework in science curriculum designs appropriate to the professional responsibilities of science educators; provide research and seminar opportunities in contemporary issues in science education; and enable teachers to become more proficient in science disciplines appropriate to their academic teaching assignments. A secondary track and elementary track are available. Remaining coursework is selected from the departments of Biological Science, Chemistry and Biochemistry, Computer Science, Geological Sciences, Physics or Science Education and other departments as appropriate. Fifteen units of work are required from the Science Education Program. The graduate work culminates with the student completing a project or thesis in an area of science education that is applicable to the student’s teaching. Faculty from the program and other departments form the committee that guides and evaluates each graduate student. Admission Requirements University requirements include a baccalaureate from an accredited institution and a grade-point average of at least 2.5 in the last 60 semester units attempted (see section of this catalog on Graduate Admissions for complete statement and procedures). In addition to the university requirements for admission, acceptance in the MAT-S program is contingent upon canidates meeting the following criteria. Candidates must apply to the university, as well as submit the “Application for Admission to the MAT-S Degree Program” to the Science Education Programs administrative contact. The application is available from the Science Education Programs administrative contact at 657-278-5283, scied@fullerton.edu. The Science Education Program application for the MAT-S must include: two signed letters of recommendation; a personal resume; documentation of a teaching credential; and a Statement of Purpose - one to two pages with information about the candidate’s science area of interest. A teaching credential is normally required for classified standing. In special circumstances, a MAT-S faculty adviser may agree to work with a student who has not completed a teaching credential program. For example, an applicant who teaches in a private school or works in a museum may complete the MAT-S without a teaching credential. In these cases, a MAT-S faculty adviser will write a letter waiving the credential requirement for classified standing. Candidates must complete coursework equivalent to a baccalaureate degree in one of the sciences. (For the elementary track, the baccalaureate degree is not normally in the sciences, but the application must provide evidence of in-depth work within the sciences beyond the minimum requirements for a multiple subject teaching credential.) Candidates must receive acceptance by a faculty project/thesis adviser. The admission decision will be made only after the application file is complete. Application Deadlines The deadline for completing online applications is March 1 for the fall semester. (see Cal State Apply). Mailed applications need to be postmarked by the same deadline. However, deadlines may be changed based upon enrollment projections. Advancement to Candidacy Advancement to candidacy is attained by requesting a graduation check and receiving subsequent approval of the MAT-S faculty adviser and the MAT-S graduate program adviser on the Grad Check Review Form. This form is mailed to students by the University Graduate Studies Office. Classified Standing Students should achieve classified standing as soon as they are eligible. A student who meets the admission standards needs to develop a study plan in consultation with the MAT-S faculty adviser and MAT-S graduate program adviser before nine units of degree coursework has been completed. Classified standing will be granted once the study plan has been reviewed and approved by the MAT-S faculty and the Associate Vice President, Academic Programs. Students will be notified by the Graduate Studies Office when the study plan is approved and classified standing is granted. Once the study plan is approved, changes can be made only with the approval of the MAT-S faculty adviser and the MAT-S graduate program adviser. Study plan The degree program consists of upper-division or graduate coursework, of which at least half must be 500-level, and be completed with a grade point average of 3.0 or better. Students will choose one of the following tracks: Secondary Track - 15 units will be in the sciences and other departments, in upper-division and graduate courses. At least nine units will be taken in one of the following: biology, chemistry, computer science, geological sciences or physics; or Elementary Track - 15 units in upper-division and graduate courses. Electives will be chosen from biology, chemistry, computer science, geological sciences, physics or science education. Students must also complete the following 15 units: Core Courses *Meets the Graduate Level Writing Requirement. SCED 550 - Theoretical Designs in Science Education (3) SCED 552 - Review of Research in Science Education (3) * SCED 554 - Issues in Science Education (3) Culminating Experience SCED 598 - Thesis (1-6) or SCED 597 - Project (1-3) and SCED 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) Independent Graduate Research (3 units) For further information and advisement, consult the graduate program adviser. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).