Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study Select a section... Overview Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Secondary Majors Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Pre-Professional Study Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study ACADEMIC PROGRAM DEFINITIONS Program - administrative infrastructure supporting the curriculum. Curriculum - the requirements for a major, certificate, or minor. Major - subject area of study that results in a named baccalaureate, masters, or doctoral degree upon completion of a set of requirements. A major appears on the academic transcript. Secondary major - a major that can only be earned in conjunction with a primary major. A secondary major appears on the academic transcript. Option - credits within an undergraduate major in which students choose coursework focused on a subset of the subject area of study. The remainder of the degree requirements are common to all students in the major. Options have also been called specializations, tracks, emphasis areas, focus areas, etc. An option does not appear on the academic transcript. Certificate - an academic credential in a focused area of study. A certificate appears on the academic transcript and may be earned concurrently with a degree or on its own. Minor - an academic area of emphasis that is in addition to a major. A minor appears on the academic transcript and must be earned in conjunction with a degree. UNIVERSITY REQUIREMENTS Undergraduate Degree Requirements Iowa State University offers a wide variety of undergraduate majors housed in six colleges. The requirements for all majors include the following university-wide requirements for graduation: Communication Proficiency U.S. Diversity International Perspectives LIB 160 Introduction to College Level Research Minimum of 120-semester credits Cumulative grade point average of at least 2.00 in all coursework taken at ISU See Degree Planning for university-wide requirements for the bachelor's degree. COLLEGES College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Ivy College of Business College of Design College of Engineering College of Human Sciences College of Liberal Arts and Sciences The College of Veterinary Medicine offers the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree. For a listing of the majors offered by the Graduate College, see the Graduate Programs list in this catalog. UNDERGRADUATE MAJORS See Degree Planning for university-wide requirements for the bachelor's degree. Major - subject area of study that results in a named baccalaureate, masters, or doctoral degree upon completion of a set of requirements. A major appears on the academic transcript. Secondary major - a major that can only be earned in conjunction with a primary major. A secondary major appears on the academic transcript. Option - credits within an undergraduate major in which students choose coursework focused on a subset of the subject area of study. The remainder of the degree requirements are common to all students in the major. Options have also been called specializations, tracks, emphasis areas, focus areas, etc. An option does not appear on the academic transcript. Accounting, B.S. Actuarial Science, B.S. Advertising, B.A. Aerospace Engineering, B.S. Agricultural and Life Sciences Education, B.S. Agricultural and Rural Policy Studies, B.S. Agricultural Business, B.S. Agricultural Engineering, B.S. Agricultural Studies, B.S. Agricultural Systems Technology, B.S. Agronomy, B.S. Animal Ecology, B.S. Animal Science, B.S. Anthropology, B.A., B.S. Apparel, Merchandising and Design, B.S. Architecture, B.Arch. Art and Design, B.A. Athletic Training Biochemistry, B.S. (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) Biochemistry, B.S. (College of Liberal Arts and Sciences) Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, B.S. Biological Systems Engineering, B.S. Biological/Pre-Medical Illustration, B.A. Biology, B.S. (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) Biology, B.S. (College of Liberal Arts and Sciences) Biophysics, B.S. Business Administration, B.B.A. Business Analytics, B.S. Business Economics, B.S. Chemical Engineering, B.S. Chemistry, B.A., B.S. Civil Engineering, B.S. Classical Studies - See Interdisciplinary Studies, B.A., B.S. Communication Studies, B.A. Community and Regional Planning, B.S. Computer Engineering, B.S. Computer Science, B.S. Construction Engineering, B.S. Criminal Justice, B.A. Culinary Food Science, B.S. (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) Culinary Food Science, B.S. (College of Human Sciences) Cyber Security Engineering, B.S. Dairy Science, B.S. Data Science, B.S. Diet and Exercise, B.S./M.S. (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) Diet and Exercise, B.S./M.S. (College of Human Sciences) Dietetics, B.S. (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) Dietetics, B.S. (College of Human Sciences) Early Childcare Education and Programming, B.S. Early Childhood Education, B.S. Earth Science, B.A., B.S. Economics, B.S. Education Secondary - See Undergraduate Secondary Majors Electrical Engineering, B.S. Elementary Education, B.S. English, B.A., B.S. Entrepreneurship, B.S. Environmental Engineering, B.S. Environmental Science, B.S. (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) Environmental Science, B.S. (College of Liberal Arts and Sciences) Environmental Studies - See Undergraduate Secondary Majors Event Management, B.S. Family and Consumer Sciences Education and Studies, B.S. Finance, B.S. Financial Counseling and Planning, B.S. Food Science, B.S. (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) Food Science, B.S. (College of Human Sciences) Forestry, B.S. French - See World Languages and Cultures, B.A. Genetics, B.S. (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) Genetics, B.S. (College of Liberal Arts and Sciences) Geology, B.S. German - See World Languages and Cultures, B.A. Global Resource Systems, B.S. Graphic Design, B.F.A. History, B.A., B.S. Horticulture, B.S. Hospitality Management, B.S. Human Development and Family Studies, B.S. Human Resource Management, B.S. Industrial Design, B.I.D. Industrial Engineering, B.S. Industrial Technology, B.S. Integrated Studio Arts. B.F.A. Interdisciplinary Design, B.A. Interdisciplinary Studies, B.A., B.S. Classical Studies U.S. Latino/a Studies Interior Design, B.F.A. International Agriculture - See Undergraduate Secondary Majors International Business - See Undergraduate Secondary Majors International Studies - See Undergraduate Secondary Majors Journalism and Mass Communication, B.S. Kinesiology and Health, B.S. Landscape Architecture, B.L.A. Liberal Studies, B.L.S. - a general studies degree Linguistics, B.A. Management, B.S. Management Information Systems, B.S. Marketing, B.S. Materials Engineering, B.S. Mathematics, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Meteorology, B.S. Microbiology, B.S. Music, B.A., B.Mus. Nursing, B.S.N. (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) Nursing, B.S.N. (College of Human Sciences) Nutritional Science, B.S. (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) Nutritional Science, B.S. (College of Human Sciences) Performing Arts, B.A. Philosophy, B.A. Physics, B.S. Political Science, B.A. Psychology, B.A., B.S. Public Relations, B.S. Religious Studies, B.A. Seed Science - See Undergraduate Secondary Majors Sociology, B.A., B.S. Software Engineering, B.S. (College of Engineering) Software Engineering, B.S. (College of Liberal Arts and Sciences) Spanish - See World Languages and Cultures, B.A. Speech Communication, B.A. Statistics, B.S. Supply Chain Management, B.S. Technical Communication, B.S. Theatre - See Performing Arts, B.A. U.S. Latino/a Studies - See Interdisciplinary Studies, B.A., B.S. Women’s and Gender Studies, B.A., B.S. World Languages and Cultures B.A. French German Spanish Undergraduate Secondary Majors See Degree Planning for university-wide requirements for the bachelor's degree. Secondary major - a major that can only be earned in conjunction with a primary major. A secondary major appears on the academic transcript. Education Secondary Environmental Studies International Agriculture International Business International Studies Seed Science UNDERGRADUATE CERTIFICATES See Degree Planning for university-wide requirements for an undergraduate certificate. Certificate - an academic credential in a focused area of study. A certificate appears on the academic transcript and may be earned concurrently with a degree or on its own. Actuarial Science Beef Cattle Production Management Computing Applications Data Science Equine Science and Management Health Coach Integrated Studio Arts Latin American Studies Leadership Studies Merchandising (^) Occupational Safety Poultry Production Management Professional Sales Science Communication Soil Science (^) Swine Production Management Certificates may be earned at the same time as an ISU baccalaureate degree or after the completion of a baccalaureate degree from any accredited institution. Those marked with a (^) may also be earned after the completion of an associate degree from any accredited institution. Iowa State University also offers certificates from the Graduate College. UNDERGRADUATE MINORS See Degree Planning for university-wide requirements for an undergraduate minor. Minor - an academic area of emphasis that is in addition to a major. A minor appears on the academic transcript and must be earned in conjunction with a degree. Accounting Advertising African and African American Studies Agricultural Business Agricultural Systems Technology Agriculture and Life Sciences Education Agronomy American Indian Studies Animal Ecology Animal Science Anthropology Apparel, Merchandising, and Design Astronomy Beverage Management Biochemistry Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Biological/Pre-Medical Illustration Biology Biomedical Engineering Business Analytics Business and Technology Consulting Chemistry Chinese Studies Classical Studies Communication Studies Computer Science Criminal Justice Critical Studies in Design Culinary Food Science Cyber-Physical Systems Cyber Security Dance Data Science Design Studies Digital Media Economics Education Services in Family and Consumer Sciences Energy Systems Engineering Sales English Entrepreneurship Environmental Studies Ethics Event Management Exercise Science Fashion Culture History and Social Justice Feed Technology Finance Financial Counseling and Planning Food and Society Food Safety Food Science Forestry French General Business Genetics (AGLS) Genetics (LAS) Geographic Information Science (GISC) Geology German Gerontology Global Health Global Human Sciences Health Promotion History Horticulture Hospitality Management Human Development and Family Studies Illustration Industrial Technology Insect Science International Agriculture International Business International Studies Journalism and Mass Communication Kinesiology Leadership Studies Learning and Leadership Sciences Learning Technologies Landscape Management Linguistics Management Management Information Systems Marketing Mathematics Meat Science Meteorology Microbiology Middle Eastern Studies Military Studies Music Music Technology Nondestructive Evaluation Nutrition Performing Arts (Theatre) Pharmacology and Toxicology Philosophy Physics Political Science Preservation and Cultural Heritage Psychology Public Relations Religious Studies Russian Studies Sociology Spanish Speech Communication Statistics Supply Chain Management Sustainability Teaching English as a Second Language Technical Communication Textile Design Textile Science and Product Performance Theatre - See Performing Arts U.S. Latino/a Studies Urban Studies Women’s and Gender Studies World Film Studies PRE-PROFESSIONAL STUDY Requirements for admission to most professional academic programs can be met by study at Iowa State University. Pre-professional programs such as pre-law or pre-med are not degree-granting majors, but rather tracks for students who plan to attend professional school (e.g., dental, medical, optometry, physical therapy, law, or veterinary medicine) after their undergraduate studies. Students can major in any field, and they will work with an advisor who helps with course sequencing and academic preparation for application to professional schools. For more details, explore the Pre-professional section of the catalog and explore the links below. Tracks Pre-Health & Pre-Medicine Dentistry Human Medicine Optometry Pharmacy Physical Therapy Physician's Assistant Pre-Law Pre-Veterinary Medicine Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.