Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2019-2020 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Communicative Disorders Certification Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) The Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders is fully accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology (CAA) of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). Graduate study in this program leads to certification in speech-language pathology with ASHA (CCC-SLP). The CCC-SLP is awarded by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) to persons who: (a) complete the M.A. Degree in speech-language pathology; (b) complete the required clinical practicum by taking prescribed combinations of clinical practicum courses; (c) achieve all required knowledge-based and skill-based competencies; (d) pass the National Examination in Speech-Language Pathology; (e) successfully complete a Clinical Fellowship Year; and (f ) submit the appropriate application materials to the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. All students should be familiar with the requirements for the CCC-SLP. All students should obtain a copy of the latest ASHA Membership and Certification Handbook during the last year of their graduate studies, and they should read all materials carefully. Their advisers are not responsible for informing students of ASHA requirements that are to be met after graduation. Copies of the Handbook are available from ASHA at the following address and telephone number: American Speech-Language-Hearing Association Membership and Certification Section 2200 Research Blvd. Rockville, Maryland 20850 Telephone 800-498-2071 Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).