Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Exchange Programs & Study Abroad Select a section... Catalog Home > Exchange Programs & Study Abroad Regent Universities Student Exchange Program Iowa State University students may take courses at either of the other two Regent universities for Iowa State resident credit. Regular, degree-bound students in good standing at any of the three Regent universities may attend another Regent university for a maximum of two semesters, and the credits earned at the other university will be counted as resident credit at the home institution. Approval for participation and credit in the exchange program must be obtained well in advance of registration since the department head must approve the acceptance of such credits if these are to apply to the major, and to ensure complete processing of the application between the cooperating universities within specified dates for enrollment. Detailed information and application forms for the exchange program are available from the Office of the Registrar. National Student Exchange (NSE) Iowa State University is a member of National Student Exchange. The NSE Consortium has 200 colleges and universities throughout North America providing academic and experiential exchange opportunities. Iowa State students with a cumulative GPA of at least 2.50 are eligible to apply. Credits earned as an NSE participant will be recorded on the students Iowa State transcript. Approval for credit in the NSE program should be sought from a student's academic advisor in advance of application. Detailed information and applications forms are available from: National Student Exchange 1080 Hixson-Lied Student Success Center (515) 294-6479 nse@iastate.edu www.dso.iastate.edu/nse Study Abroad Studying abroad helps prepare students to meet the challenges of an increasingly interdependent global community. It's an adventure that challenges the student academically and provides real opportunities to interact with other cultures, languages, and lifestyles. The skills students gain while studying abroad will make them top candidates for internship placements and full-time positions post-graduation. As a leading international university, Iowa State has a major commitment to study abroad, and the Study Abroad Center (SAC) is the central administrative office responsible for providing these opportunities. We offer advising on study abroad, international internships, volunteer opportunities, and scholarships. With over 50 study abroad programs available, from one week to an academic year in length and in nearly every major, students are able to find a program that meets their needs and interests so they can discover for themselves why study abroad is the most exciting academic adventure. Exchange Programs offer students the opportunity to study abroad at a partner university while paying Iowa State tuition. Semester in Australia, Germany, Ireland, Italy, New Zealand, Scotland and Wales offers unlimited placement opportunities for students to study at some of our most popular destinations for the fall, spring, or summer. Programs led by our faculty offer Iowa State courses around the world. Short-term options can take you from the Antarctica to Uganda and to more than 40 other destinations. For additional information, contact or stop by the Study Abroad Center. No appointment necessary! Study Abroad Center 6563 Memorial Union (515 294-6792) www.studyabroad.iastate.edu Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.