Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Oregon State University Toggle search Toggle menu Academic Catalog Search Catalog Search Exit Search Schedule of Classes Courses Academic Calendar Colleges Programs Academic Regulations Catalog Rights Policy Print Options Home/ Academic Regulations Academic Regulations On This Page Introduction AR 1. Admission for Nondegree Students AR 2. Transfer Credit (Undergraduate Students) AR 3. Credit from a Non-Regionally Accredited Institution (Undergraduate Students) AR 4. Classifying Students AR 5. Transfer from One College to Another (Undergraduate Students) AR 6. Change in Credits Scheduled AR 7. Maximum and Minimum Registration AR 8. Late Registration AR 9. Admission/Enrollment to Class AR 10. Eligibility AR 11. Adding and Dropping Courses AR 12. Withdrawal from Individual Classes AR 13. Withdrawal from the Term AR 14. Attendance AR 15. Academic Misconduct AR 16. Finals Week AR 17. Grades AR 18. Alternative Grading Systems AR 19. Grade Points AR 20. Repeated Courses AR 21. Honor Roll AR 22. Satisfactory Academic Standing (for Undergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate Students) AR 23. Special Examination for Credit AR 24. Special Examination for Waiver (Undergraduate Students) AR 25. Institutional Requirements for Baccalaureate Degrees (Undergraduate Students) AR 26. Concurrent and Subsequent Baccalaureate Degrees (Undergraduate Students) AR 27. Subsequent Credentials: Minors, Certificates, Options, and Majors AR 28. Substitutions AR 29. Graduation Exercises AR 30. Auditing Courses AR 31. Academic Fresh Start Policy (Undergraduate Students) AR 32. Undergraduate Standalone Certificates Introduction These regulations and procedures are published to assist students by providing information that is essential for planning and pursuing their academic programs. Continuing efforts are made each year by the students, faculty, and administration to revise and improve these regulations in order to enhance the quality of the university’s programs and the achievement of educational goals. Every student is responsible for knowing the academic regulations and for observing the procedures that govern their relations with Oregon State University. Unless otherwise specified, these regulations apply to both undergraduate and graduate students. Any question regarding these regulations that cannot be answered by a student’s academic advisor should be referred directly to the Office of the Registrar (B102 KAd). Additional information regarding Graduate School policies should be addressed to the Office of the Graduate Dean (Heckart Lodge). Some students encounter special problems whose proper solution may require deviations from the academic regulations or procedures. Requests for such deviations in the regulations below must be presented to the Office of the Registrar on petition forms, which are available in that office. Petitions received by the registrar will be forwarded to the proper committee or office for review and appropriate action. Requests for deviations from Graduate School policies should be presented by letter to the graduate dean (See the Graduate School section of this catalog). Other special problems may involve academic issues such as academic freedom in the classroom or evaluations of a student’s academic performance. All students should appeal academic grievances first to the instructor of the course and then to the chair or head of the academic unit in which the course is offered. If the situation is not resolved to the student’s satisfaction, an undergraduate student should consult with the head advisor of the college in which the course is offered to obtain further information about appeal procedures of the college or university; a graduate student should consult the dean of the Graduate School regarding academic appeal procedures above the departmental level. (Appeal procedures for other than academic grievances, e.g., grievances regarding student employment, financial aid, housing, discipline, human rights, etc. are outlined in the Student Life Policy and Regulations, which are available on the OSU website under "Student Conduct" or from the Dean of Student Life. Some of these regulations pertain to both undergraduate and graduate students. The Graduate School section of this catalog outlines both academic appeal procedures and those relating to the employment of graduate students.) Faculty Senate revised AR Introduction effective academic year 2019–2020. AR 1. Admission for Nondegree Students Nondegree enrollment status for undergraduate students is designed for students who wish to take undergraduate classes, but do not wish to pursue a degree or a specific postbaccalaureate credential. Nondegree undergraduate students are limited to taking a maximum of 8 credits per term. Nondegree Ecampus, International Exchange, credential and certificate students are not limited to 8 credits per term A maximum of 36 credits attempted as a nondegree undergraduate student may be used to satisfy Baccalaureate degree requirements upon admission as a degree-seeking student. Students can work with an academic advisor in their major or college to determine which 36 credits will apply to their degrees. Nondegree enrollment status for graduate students is designed for students who wish to take graduate courses but do not wish to pursue an advanced degree. Nondegree graduate students are not limited as to the number of courses (credits) taken per term. Credits earned while enrolled as a nondegree graduate student will not necessarily apply to a graduate program upon admission to degree-seeking status. The student should refer to the admission requirements given in the Graduate School section of this catalog. Communication with the Graduate School and specific academic programs is advised. Nondegree students seeking admission to a degree program may do so by filing an undergraduate, postbaccalaureate, or graduate application for admission. Faculty Senate revised AR 1 effective academic year 2020-2021. AR 2. Transfer Credit (Undergraduate Students) College Transfer Credits: Oregon State University accepts college level credit from regionally accredited institutions toward a baccalaureate degree. While all acceptable transfer credits will be transcripted at OSU, no more than 135 quarter credits of non-OSU course work can be applied to an OSU baccalaureate degree. Therefore, students who transfer the full 135 credits from other institutions may ultimately graduate with more than the minimum credits for the baccalaureate degree. Students are encouraged to work with their academic unit to determine whether transfer credits meet department and college requirements for the degree. Transfer credits and grades are not used in calculating the OSU GPA. Transfer credits and grades are combined with OSU credits and grades when calculating the overall GPA. Students who hold OSU-approved direct transfer degrees from Oregon or other regionally accredited community colleges (e.g., the Associate of Arts Oregon Transfer) or who have 90 or more credits accepted in transfer will be granted junior standing.1 Students who hold OSU-approved direct transfer degrees will be considered to have met the Difference, Power and Discrimination (DPD), Perspectives and Skills (except WIC) areas of the Baccalaureate Core. They must still complete the upper-division Synthesis requirements and the Writing Intensive Course (WIC) of the Baccalaureate core. Students who do not hold an approved direct transfer degree will be given Baccalaureate Core credit on a course-by-course basis for course work that is determined to be equivalent in content. See AR 25 for Institutional Requirements for Baccalaureate Degrees. Transfer of Professional-Technical Credits: a maximum of 12 quarter credits (8 semester credits) of professional-technical course work applicable in an associate's degree or certificate program at a regionally accredited institution can be accepted upon admission to OSU as general elective credit (graded as Pass) and as part of the 135-quarter credit total that can be applied toward a baccalaureate degree. Academic units may choose to allow additional professional technical course credits for specific articulation if they articulate directly to a program of study offered by that unit. That articulation of coursework must be a direct equivalency and may not equal upper division coursework at OSU. Transfer of Credits for Post-Baccalaureate Students: credits from other institutions are not automatically articulated to the OSU transcript at the point of admission. Individual courses may be eligible for post-baccalaureate degree applicability. Post-baccalaureate students are encouraged to contact an academic advisor for assistance. See AR for Institutional Requirements for Concurrent and Subsequent Baccalaureate Degrees. 1 Junior standing does not necessarily imply that OSU institutional, college, division, and/or departmental requirements, which are normally satisfied by OSU students prior to their junior year, have been satisfied. Faculty Senate revised AR 2 effective academic year 2020–2021. AR 3. Credit from a Non-Regionally Accredited Institution (Undergraduate Students) After three terms of work at Oregon State University satisfactory to the Undergraduate Admissions Committee, a student may request validation of work done in a non-regionally accredited institution of collegiate rank. The committee will consider each petition separately and base its decision on all information available. In some instances, informal examinations by the departments concerned may be required. Credit for transfer of professional-technical work will be awarded in accordance with paragraphs AR 2, b and c. Faculty Senate revised AR 3 effective academic year 2019–2020. AR 4. Classifying Students Undergraduate students: A student who has earned at least 45 credits is classified as a sophomore. A student who has earned at least 90 credits is classified as a junior. A student who has earned at least 135 credits is classified as a senior. Postbaccalaureate students: A student holding a baccalaureate degree who is admitted to work toward a second baccalaureate degree or teaching certificate is classified as a postbaccalaureate student. Graduate students: A student who has been admitted to the Graduate School is classified as a graduate student. AR 5. Transfer from One College to Another (Undergraduate Students) Registered students may transfer from one college to another at any time. Returning but not-registered students may transfer colleges between the dates of readmission and registration. AR 6. Change in Credits Scheduled No change may be made in the number of credits specified for the various courses and published in the OSU Academic Catalog. AR 7. Maximum and Minimum Registration The minimum number of credits for which a full-time undergraduate student may register is 12, and the maximum is 19, regardless of the method of grading used for the classes selected. (In determining the load for students not normally held responsible for physical education, the credits in activity courses in physical education will be disregarded.) The maximum may be extended: Up to and including 24 credits when a student has completed at least 12 credits in courses other than those graded P/N and S/U with a grade-point average of 3.00 or better in their most recent term or when a student has filed with the Registrar a petition approved by their advisor and college dean (or head advisor). Over 24 credits by petition approved by a student’s advisor and college dean (or head advisor) and the Academic Requirements Committee and filed with the registrar. The minimum number of credits for a full-time graduate student is 9; the maximum is 16. The maximum can be extended by approval of the dean of the Graduate School. Degree-seeking graduate students must take a minimum of 3 credits for any term in which they are enrolled. Appointees on graduate assistantships must register for a minimum of 12 graduate credits per term and are limited to a maximum of 16 credits per term. Faculty Senate revised AR 7 effective academic year 2019–2020. AR 8. Late Registration Registration is permitted through the second full week of classes each term. Late fees are assessed in accordance with the fee policies stated in the 'Tuition, Fees and Payment' information in the Academic Catalog. AR 9. Admission/Enrollment to Class Students whose names appear on class rosters are officially registered; others must complete their registration for enrollment to class. If it is anticipated that the demand for enrollment in a given course will exceed the maximum number that can be accommodated, the department offering the course may designate it in the Schedule of Classes with the code "NSHD" (no-show-drop). A student who is registered for such a course who attends no meetings of the course during the first five school days of the term will be dropped from the course by the instructor, unless the student has obtained prior permission for absence. If such action is taken, the instructor will notify, through the department, the Office of the Registrar, which in turn will drop the student from their course. Students are responsible for confirming their course registration online. No tuition or fee will be charged for that course. Faculty Senate revised AR 9 effective academic year 2019–2020. AR 10. Eligibility To be eligible to hold office or to participate in any extracurricular activity supervised by Oregon State University, students must meet certain requirements. For student activities, students are responsible for following the Student Life Policies (found in University Policies and Standards). For participation in intercollegiate athletics, students must meet all institutional Pac-12 and NCAA requirements. Students should contact the Compliance Office in the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics on all such matters. Faculty Senate revised AR 10 effective academic year 2019–2020. AR 11. Adding and Dropping Courses Students may add courses through the second full week of classes each term, depending on the nature of the course and the availability of space. From the end of the first full week of classes to the end of the second full week of classes, permission (signature) of the instructor offering the course must be obtained. A student may drop courses without responsibility for grades through the end of the first full week of classes. After the drop deadline courses may not be dropped. Failure to drop a course properly will result in an F grade being recorded; courses properly dropped do not appear on the student’s transcript. Add/drop fees are assessed in accordance with the fee policies stated in the Tuition, Fees and Payment information in the Academic Catalog. AR 12. Withdrawal from Individual Classes Any student may withdraw from a maximum of 18 individual OSU credit-bearing classes throughout their career at OSU1. This maximum includes any classes withdrawn from when a student withdraws from the term. Any student may petition for an exception from this limitation if the justification for withdrawal is clearly associated with circumstances beyond the student’s control or the student has prior degrees from OSU. Withdrawal from an individual class with a W grade begins after the drop deadline, which is the first full week of classes, and continues through the end of the seventh full week of classes. After the seventh full week of classes, students are expected to complete the classes attempted and will receive letter grades (A, A–, B+, B, B–, C+, C, C–, D+, D, D–, F, S, U, P, or N) for all classes in which enrolled unless they officially withdraw from the term. Procedures for withdrawal from individual classes can be found on the Office of the Registrar website. 1 The maximum withdrawal count for all students is effective fall 2012. Faculty Senate revised AR 12 effective academic year 2021–2022. AR 13. Withdrawal from the Term Any student is entitled to withdraw from the term without prejudice prior to the beginning of finals week, unless they have exceeded the withdrawal from individual classes maximum. The student may accomplish this by completing the online withdrawal survey available through online services1. Withdrawal from the term prior to the beginning of finals week will result in the grade of W being recorded for each class for which the student is registered. When a student’s academic progress is interrupted by a documented emergency situation that occurs within the last four weeks of the term, the student will work with academic advisors, faculty members, the Student Care Team or other appropriate student services, to determine an appropriate course of action for each course. Undergraduate Planned Educational Leave Program. The Undergraduate Planned Educational Leave Program (PELP) is a voluntary, temporary, planned interruption or pause in a student’s regular, full-time education. Its purpose is to enhance an undergraduate student’s prospect of successful completion of their academic program. The PELP provides one opportunity2 for a student to arrange a voluntary absence for as many as six consecutive regular academic terms (not including summer terms). The PELP is designed to allow a student to pursue other activities that will assist them in clarifying their educational goals, such as job opportunities and experiences away from campus, military deployment, time to resolve personal or medical problems, or other similar pursuits. The PELP allows an undergraduate student to temporarily suspend their academic work for a period of time (in accordance with AR 13a and 13b), and resume their studies with minimal procedural difficulties. The PELP $25 non-refundable application fee allows an undergraduate student to maintain their official standing as a student at OSU and reserves the student’s right to keep their original academic catalog3 active during their absence. Beginning with the 2011–2012 academic year, all OSU undergraduate students4 are eligible to request leave through the PELP. The university reserves the right to consider a student’s current academic standing and any existing student conduct issues prior to approving the voluntary PELP leave request. Students who withdraw from OSU prior to the 2011–2012 academic year and who are away from campus for four or more consecutive regular academic terms (not including summer terms) must re-enroll with OSU to re-establish their relationship as an OSU student and their academic catalog will be reset to the academic year they return to OSU. Graduate Student Continuous Enrollment policies. Graduate students should refer to the Continuous Enrollment policies described in the OSU catalog. Transcript Notation A notation of the dates of any approved leave will be indicated on each student’s official transcript. 1 Due to the nature of multiple summer sessions, withdrawals from the term are handled at the conclusion of summer term. No survey is required to withdraw from summer term. 2 Military deployments are an exception to this limitation. All military personnel who are deployed for military service may submit a voluntary leave request for each deployment. 3 In accordance with the university’s catalog policy contained in the Academic Catalog. 4 The PELP began with the 2011–2012 academic year (Summer 2011). Any former OSU students who attended OSU prior to the 2011–2012 academic year and have been absent for four or more consecutive regular academic terms will be held to OSU’s prior policy that resets the academic catalog to the catalog in effect at the time they return to OSU. Faculty Senate revised AR 13 effective academic year 2021–2022. AR 14. Attendance Attendance is one of the most important factors in a student’s academic success. Therefore, an instructor may consider attendance as part of a course grade. If attendance is used in determining the student’s grade, how attendance shall be used needs to be defined in the course syllabus by the instructor. AR 15. Academic Misconduct Definitions and examples of academic misconduct are outlined in the Code of Student Conduct, Section 4.2.1. The administration of the classroom rests with the instructor. When potential academic misconduct comes to the instructor’s attention, the instructor documents the incident and permits the student to provide an explanation. If the matter can be resolved without an academic sanction, no report is necessary. If the instructor believes academic misconduct has occurred and that the violation warrants the application of an academic sanction, the instructor: (a) consults with the unit head, (b) submits an Academic Misconduct Report (AMR) documenting the allegations and indicating the proposed sanction, and (c) informs the student of the action taken. The instructor may recommend any academic sanctions. Allegations of academic misconduct are reviewed and adjudicated by a college-designated hearing officer (CHO) in accordance with the procedures outlined in the Code of Student Conduct, Section 5.11. If the student is not a major in the college in which the course is offered, the CHO of the college in which the student is a major also receives a copy of the AMR. Depending upon the severity of the violation, or if a record of previous academic misconduct exists, the college and/or university may impose additional sanctions. Sanctions imposed as a result of academic misconduct may be appealed by the student in accordance with the procedures outlined in the Code of Student Conduct, Section 8. AR 16. Finals Week No final, midterm, or comprehensive examinations shall be given during the week preceding final examination week. (Examinations on laboratory work, course material covered by "weekly" or "section" quizzes, television courses, ROTC activities, and physical education activities are allowed.) Course work shall continue up to final week. Final examinations shall be given during finals week in accordance with the finals week schedule. If a final examination is not to be given in a course, this action must be approved by the department with notification to the Registrar’s Office. Requests for changes in the time of final examinations will be submitted to the Registrar’s Office. All student petitions for changes in the time of final examinations must be made using forms available from the Registrar’s Office. (A summary of university final examination policy is printed on the form.) Petitions for changing final examinations are submitted directly to the instructor. Students may forward disapproved petitions through the dean of the college to the Registrar’s Office. Requests to change the assigned final examination time for an entire class must be approved by the Registrar’s Office. Final examinations may not be changed to the week preceding final week without approval of the Academic Requirements Committee. No extracurricular activities or curricular activities other than examinations and final class meetings shall be scheduled during final week. AR 17. Grades The grading system consists of twelve basic grades, A, A–, B+, B, B–, C+, C, C–, D+, D, D–, and F. The grade of A denotes exceptional accomplishment; B, superior; C, average; D, inferior; F, failure. Other marks are I, incomplete; W, withdrawal; R, thesis in progress; P, pass; N, no-credit; S, satisfactory; U, unsatisfactory; AUD, audited course; WAU, withdrawal from audited course; NG, no basis for a grade (administratively assigned by the Office of the Registrar, see below); WC, complete withdrawal. When a requirement of a course has not been completed for reasons acceptable to the instructor and the rest of the academic work is passing, a report of I (incomplete) may be made and additional time granted. The I grade is only granted at the discretion of the instructor. The instructor must submit the grade the student will earn if the missing work is not completed; this is the alternate grade. The alternate grade will become the default grade if the missing work is not completed as part of the contract for completion of the grade. The instructor documents the deficiency and the deadline for completing the missing work. A record of the deficiency shall be kept on file in the unit or department office. The allotted time awarded shall not exceed one calendar year except by petition1 or the time of the degree conferral, whichever comes first. To remove the I grade, the student must complete the deficiency within the allotted time and the instructor will then submit the appropriate grade. If the student fails to complete the work within the allotted time, the Registrar’s Office will automatically change the I grade on the student’s record to the alternate grade submitted by the instructor at the time the I was given. The alternate grade will be included in the grade point average. Under no circumstances shall a student who earns an A–F grade or an N or U grade have their grade changed retroactively to an I grade. An instructor may move to correct a grade by filing a Change of Grade in the Registrar’s Office. Grade changes for students of a permanently separated instructor will be managed by the department chair of the course involved. Upon permanent separation from the university an instructor’s change of grade will not be accepted by the Office of the Registrar. The Office of the Registrar will routinely review grade changes. 1 A student may petition via the Office of the Registrar for an extension of the one calendar year deadline with the concurrence of the faculty. An approved petition will grant an extension of a single additional term, with a maximum of three total extensions being possible. An approved petition for an extension of time to remove an incomplete will be voided at the time of degree conferral. AR 18. Alternative Grading Systems In addition to traditional letter grading (A–F), Oregon State University has adopted two alternative grading systems to be employed in accordance with the provisions outlined below: Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory (S/U) Undergraduate students may elect to be graded on a Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory (S/U) basis in a course (except P/N courses) under the following conditions: A maximum of 36 credits of those presented in satisfaction of the baccalaureate degree may have been graded on an S/U basis at Oregon State University. A student normally elects the option S/U at the time of registration. Changes either to or from S/U grading will be permitted through the end of the seventh full week of any term. A student must obtain the approval of their academic advisor or dean in order to elect to be graded on an S/U basis. Graduate students may elect to take undergraduate courses on the S/U basis except those courses required for the removal of deficiencies. Graduate courses may also be taken on an S/U basis. (Such courses cannot be used as part of a student’s graduate program. All other provisions of S/U grading apply to graduate students.) A grade of S (satisfactory) shall be equivalent to grades A, A–, B+, B, B–, C+, C, and C–. A grade of U (unsatisfactory) shall be equivalent to grades D+, D, D–, or F. Grades of S or U shall have no grade-point equivalents; hence such grades shall not be included in the computation of grade-point averages. The credit of courses in which an S grade is obtained shall be counted toward graduation. Credits shall not be awarded for U grades. Election of S/U grading for a course shall be known only to the student and the academic advisor. Instructors shall enter the traditional letter grade (A–F) earned. Automatic conversion to S grades and U grades will be made in the Office of the Registrar. A grade of I, Incomplete, may be assigned wherever appropriate. In compliance with Section III of the Statement on Student Rights, Freedoms, and Responsibilities (dated April 28, 1969), disclosure or nondisclosure of the traditional letter grades received in courses in which S grades were awarded is recognized as an exclusive right of the individual student. The Registrar’s Office is obliged and authorized to honor requests for disclosure, provided that the express consent of the student is obtained. Pass/No Credit (P/N) Those courses in which traditional letter grading has been deemed inappropriate because of the nature of the course content or the objectives of the course are graded on a Pass/No Credit (P/N) basis. Grades of P or N shall have no grade-point equivalents; hence such grades shall not be included in the computation of grade-point averages. The credits of courses in which a grade of P is obtained shall be counted toward graduation. Credit shall not be awarded for N grades. Departments are authorized to designate Pass/No Credit courses, subject to the following guidelines and procedures: The principal criterion for choice of grading system is enhancement of the educational experience for the student; The nature, structure, and/or objectives of a course may suggest that the Pass/No Credit grading system be adopted. It is anticipated that courses graded on this basis will generally fall into one of the following categories: skill-building courses or practicums, courses which stress orientation and awareness rather than academic preparation; The designation of Pass/No Credit grading for a course will follow the academic college’s recommendation and approval by the University Curriculum Council, and in the case of graduate courses, by the Graduate Council. Designation of courses for P/N grading must be completed prior to the opening of registration for the term in which the course is offered. Courses approved for grading on a Pass/No Credit (P/N) basis are identified in the Schedule of Classes. Nothing stated in the above paragraphs shall be construed as constituting support for petitions requesting change of grade in courses taken during or prior to spring term, 1971. Faculty Senate revised AR 18 effective academic year 2019–2020. AR 19. Grade Points Grade points are computed on the basis of: 4 points for each credit of A grade, 3.7 for each credit of A– grade, 3.3 for each credit of B+ grade, 3.0 for each credit of B grade, 2.7 for each credit of B– grade, 2.3 for each credit of C+ grade, 2.0 for each credit of C grade, 1.7 for each credit of C– grade, 1.3 for each credit of D+ grade, 1.0 for each credit of D grade, 0.7 for each credit of D– grade, and 0 for each credit of F. Marks of I/grade, W, P, N, R, S, U, and AUD, are disregarded in the computation of points. The grade-point average (GPA) is the quotient of total points divided by total credits; total credits are the number of term credits in which grades A, B, C, D, and F are received. Thus a student receiving 1 credit of A, 2 credits of B, 3 credits of C, 4 credits of D, and 5 credits of F would have 20 grade points (1 x 4 plus 2 x 3 plus 3 x 2 plus 4 x 1 plus 5 x 0). The grade-point average would be 20 (grade points) divided by 15 (credits) equals 1.33. Faculty Senate revised AR 19 effective academic year 2020-2021. AR 20. Repeated Courses If a student repeats an Oregon State University course, the grade from each attempt1 will appear on the student’s academic record but only the second attempt will count toward the student’s institutional credits, requirements, and grade-point average2. An academic unit3 may, however, include subsequent attempts after the second attempt to meet individual course degree requirements associated with the baccalaureate core/majors/options/minors/certificates/endorsements. A course may not be repeated on an S/U basis if it was taken previously on a normal grade basis4. 1 An attempt comprises a final grade in a course where the grade is: A, A–, B+, B, B–, C+, C, C–, D+, D, D–, F, S, U, P, NP or an I/Alternate Grade (where the Alternate Grade is one of these grades). 2 Recognized repeatable courses as defined in the Oregon State University Academic Catalog, such as activity courses, research, seminars, and selected topics, do not come under this restriction. Additionally, if a course has been approved as a multiple repeatable course for credit and grade points, each attempt will be included in the institutional credits and grade-point average until it reaches its defined limit (total allowable attempts or credit maximums for the course). Further, the Office of the Registrar will include all courses from the first repeat taken until it reaches the maximum total allowable attempts or credit maximums for the course. All subsequent repeats after the repeat maximum has been reached will be excluded from both institutional credits earned and grade-point average calculations. 3 Academic Unit: College, School, or Department 4 Normal Grade Basis is defined as any grade of A, A–, B+, B, B–, C+, C, C–, D+, D, D–, F, or any I/Alternate Grade (where the Alternate Grade is one of these grades). AR 21. Honor Roll At the close of each term, the OSU Registrar publishes a list containing the names of all undergraduate and postbaccalaureate students who for the term have completed at least 12 graded credits with a grade-point average of 3.50 or above. AR 22. Satisfactory Academic Standing (for Undergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate Students) Oregon State University expects students to maintain satisfactory academic progress toward degree completion. At the conclusion of each term, grade-point averages are calculated and academic standings determined for students seeking a baccalaureate degree according to the criteria outlined below. Students whose standings evidence a lack of satisfactory progress will be warned of this condition and advised to seek help from their academic advisors. Any student who is not on Academic Warning, Academic Probation, or Academic Suspension is in good standing. Academic Warning: Students with a term GPA below 2.0 will be placed on Academic Warning. Academic Probation: Students who have attempted1 24 or more credits at OSU and have an OSU cumulative GPA below 2.0 will be placed on Academic Probation. Students who attain a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or better are removed from Academic Probation. Academic Suspension: Students who are on Academic Probation and have a subsequent term GPA below 2.0 will be placed on Academic Suspension. Academic Suspension is recorded on the student’s academic record. Students who are academically suspended are denied all the privileges of the institution and of all organizations in any way connected to it, including any university-recognized living group. Reinstatement to the University: Suspended students will be considered for reinstatement to the university after two years or completion of a minimum of 24 quarter credits of transferable college-level work at a regionally accredited college or university, with a GPA of 2.5 or above. The Faculty Senate Academic Standing Committee is responsible for enforcement of the above regulations on Satisfactory Academic Standing. Additionally, this committee has discretionary authority to grant exceptions and to develop guidelines for administering these regulations. 1 An attempt comprises a final grade in a course where the grade is: A, A–, B+, B, B–, C+, C, C–, D+, D, D–, F, S, U, P, NP, I/Alternate Grade (where the Alternate Grade is one of these grades), W. Faculty Senate revised AR 22 effective academic year 2019–2020. AR 23. Special Examination for Credit A regularly enrolled student in good standing, either graduate or undergraduate, currently registered at Oregon State University and wishing credit for an OSU course for which a grade has not been previously received, may petition for credit examination under the following conditions: The application for such examination shall be presented on an Official Student Petition and shall bear the approvals of the dean of the student’s college, the dean of the college in which the course is offered, and head of the department in which the course is offered. Petitions for special examination for credit may be approved or denied at the sole discretion of the department/college or the faculty member offering the course, taking into account both the academic merit of the petition and the department/college's ability to deploy adequate resources to prepare, administer, and grade such an examination. In no case may such examination be based on work used for graduation from high school, or in a foreign language that is the mother tongue of the applicant, or in courses not listed in the Oregon State University Academic Catalog. Grades earned in special examinations shall be submitted and recorded in the same way as for regularly registered courses, and will count with respect to repeating a course as defined in AR 20. A student may not petition for credit by special examination for a course in any term in which the student is or has been enrolled in the course after the add/drop deadline for that term. An examination for credit will not be approved for courses below the level for which college credit has previously been granted. No examination may be taken until the applicant has received a permit from the Registrar’s Office, for which a fee of $80 will be charged.1 1 As an alternative to departmental examinations, students may seek credit through the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) to the College Entrance Examination Board. CLEP includes nationally normed subject matter examinations and general examinations covering material included in a number of relatively standard courses taught in colleges and universities throughout the United States. Some of these subject matter examinations and general examinations have been accepted by departments at this institution. Policy guidelines have been established that make it possible for admitted and enrolled students to (a) transfer credits earned though these accepted CLEP subject matter and general examinations to this institution, providing certain criteria are met, and (b) earn credits through accepted CLEP subject matter and general examinations providing certain criteria are met. Further information about CLEP may be obtained from the Office of Admissions, B104 Kerr Administration Bldg. AR 24. Special Examination for Waiver (Undergraduate Students) A student may petition for examination to waive a course under the following conditions: The application for examination to waive a course shall be presented on an Official Student Petition and shall bear the recommendations of the dean of the student’s college, the dean of the college in which the course is offered, and head of the department in which the course is offered. Petitions for special examination for waiver may be approved or denied at its sole discretion by the department/college offering the course, taking into account both the academic merit of the petition and the department/college's ability to deploy adequate resources to prepare, administer, and grade such an examination. No examination may be taken until the applicant has received a permit from the Registrar’s Office, for which a fee of $80 will be charged. A minimum grade of C (or equivalent) must be attained in an examination for that waiver to be granted. Credit will not be granted for courses waived. This regulation does not invalidate the right of a dean of a college or head of a department to waive a course requirement of their particular college or department, respectively. AR 25. Institutional Requirements for Baccalaureate Degrees (Undergraduate Students) Baccalaureate Core: Each student will complete the following requirements: Skills Courses (16 credits) Mathematics, Writing I, and Speech must be taken and completed satisfactorily within the first 45 hours of OSU-generated credits. Writing II must be taken and completed satisfactorily within the first 90 hours of OSU-generated credits. Fitness (3 credits) Mathematics (3 credits) Speech (3 credits) Writing I (4 credits) Writing II (3 credits) Perspectives Courses (24 credits) Physical science (with lab) (4 credits) Biological science (with lab) (4 credits) Plus choice of second course in either of the above (with lab) (4 credits) Take a minimum of one course in each of the following areas: Western culture (3 credits) Cultural diversity (3 credits) Literature and the arts (3 credits) Social processes and institutions (3 credits) Difference, Power, and Discrimination Courses (3 credits) Synthesis Courses (6 credits) Science, technology, and society (3 credits) Contemporary global issues (3 credits) Writing Intensive Courses, upper division (WIC) (3 credits) The Baccalaureate Core Committee determines which courses will satisfy each of the requirements above. WIC courses will be reviewed by the Writing Advisory Board. The core is governed by the following rules: (1) No more than two courses from any one department may be used by a student to satisfy the Perspectives category of the core. (2) No single course may be used by a student to satisfy more than one subject area of the core even though some courses have been approved in more than one area. (3) Both Synthesis courses may not be taken in the same department.1 An undergraduate student may be granted a baccalaureate degree with one or more majors. Credits: Minimum 180 earned credits, which must include:2,3 Credits in upper-division courses: minimum 60 (exclusive of upper-division physical education activity courses). Credits in each major: minimum 36, including at least 24 in upper-division courses. Baccalaureate Degrees: All students receiving a BA degree shall have proficiency in a second language, which may include American Sign Language (ASL), equivalent to that attained at the end of the second year sequence with a grade of C– or better as certified by the School of Language, Culture, and Society. Colleges offering both the BA and the BS will have specific requirements distinguishing the two degrees. The college requirements for the two degrees will place comparable demands upon the time and effort of students, and that assessment of comparability will include the foreign language requirement for the BA. Academic units offering both the BA and BS may have specific requirements distinguishing the two degrees. Grade-Point Average: minimum of 2.00 on OSU cumulative grade-point average. Academic Residence: A minimum of 45 of the last 75 credits, or 150 total credits, must be completed while the student is in academic residence at OSU. "Academic Residence" is defined as OSU courses taken as a degree-seeking student of OSU or courses through one of the following approved special programs: Professional degree programs which require that the student enroll in another institution while finishing the bachelor's degree at OSU or an international study program sponsored by Oregon State University. A minimum of 15 upper-division credits used to meet the preceding residency requirement (1) must be taken in each of the student’s majors. Credits earned by special examination for credit (AR 23) are not considered in academic residence. Dean’s certification of fulfillment of all requirements of major college. (For details, see college advisors and deans.) Restrictions: A maximum number of credits may be applied to the Baccalaureate Degree as follows: Transfer from first professional programs such as Law, Medicine, Pharmacy, and Veterinary Medicine: maximum 48 quarter credits. Music courses (applied music): maximum 12 credits. (This restriction is not applicable to majors in music.) Physical activity courses: maximum 11 credits. Courses graded on an S/U basis at Oregon State University: maximum 36 credits. Academic Learning Service courses: maximum 15 credits. Degree Candidacy: To become a candidate for a degree, a student must be identified by their College or the Office of the Registrar as a student in the process of completing their final graduation requirements. Upon successful completion of all degree requirements, a student’s degree(s) will be conferred by the University. Students will be notified of their advancement to graduation candidacy by the Office of the Registrar during their final term and will be able to make adjustments to their program of study, as needed, prior to degree conferral. 1 Lists of approved courses may be obtained from advisors. Approved courses are also listed in the OSU Academic Catalog. 2 Some degree programs may require more than 180 credits. 3 Unearned credits are those courses for which a grade of F, N, U, I, W, AUD, or WAU are assigned as a final grade for that course. All other grades are calculated as earned credit. Faculty Senate revised AR 25 effective academic year 2019–2020. AR 26. Concurrent and Subsequent Baccalaureate Degrees (Undergraduate Students) Concurrent Baccalaureate Degrees: An undergraduate student may be granted two or more baccalaureate degrees (for example the BA or BS) concurrently. The student must: Complete institutional, college, and departmental requirements for the degree; Complete, for each additional degree, a minimum of 32 credits more than the requirements of the curriculum requiring the least number of credits; and Complete each additional 32 credits in residence. Subsequent Baccalaureate Degree: A student who has received a previous baccalaureate degree from either OSU or another regionally accredited university may be granted a subsequent baccalaureate degree. Additional credits may be taken at any time prior to or subsequent to the granting of a previous baccalaureate degree provided that the credits were not applied to the previous degree. The student must: Complete, for a BA degree, the requirements for foreign language proficiency (AR 25d); Achieve a minimum of 2.00 on OSU cumulative grade-point average; Complete requirements of the major college and receive the dean’s certification; and Meet the requirements for a concurrent degree as specified in AR 26a, if a previous baccalaureate degree has been received from OSU. A student seeking a baccalaureate degree under the provisions of either AR 26a or AR 26b also must satisfy the appropriate residence requirements as defined in AR 25f. Faculty Senate revised AR 26 effective academic year 2020-2021. AR 27. Subsequent Credentials: Minors, Certificates, Options, and Majors Subsequent Minors and Certificates: A student who has received a previous baccalaureate degree from either OSU or another regionally accredited university or college may be granted a subsequent minor or certificate. The student must: Complete current requirements for minor or certificate; a minimum of 15 credits in the minor or certificate must be taken in residence and not applied to a previous baccalaureate degree; Achieve a minimum of 2.0 OSU cumulative grade-point average and a minimum of 2.0 for credits applying toward the minor or certificate; Receive the dean’s approval. Subsequent Options and Majors: A student who has received a previous baccalaureate degree from OSU may be granted a subsequent option or major credential. The student must: Complete current requirements for option or major; a minimum of 20 upper division credits in the option or major must be taken in residence and not applied to a previous baccalaureate degree; Achieve a minimum of 2.0 OSU cumulative grade-point average and a minimum of 2.0 for credits applying toward the option or major. Receive the dean’s approval. Faculty Senate revised AR 27 effective academic year 2018–2019. AR 28. Substitutions Undergraduate students: Substitutions for institutional requirements as outlined in AR 25, except for baccalaureate core requirements of AR 25a, may be petitioned to the Academic Requirements Committee after approval by the student's dean or college head advisor. Substitutions for baccalaureate core requirements of AR 25a may be presented for consideration to the student's dean or college head advisor. Substitutions or adjustments of college or departmental requirements are also subject to approval by the college or department. Graduate students: Substitutions for institutional requirements or deviations from the normal Graduate School regulations and policies may be made only by obtaining the approval of the dean of the Graduate School following a petition by means of a letter signed by the student and the student’s major professor. Action taken on such substitutions or petitions will not be considered as a precedent for any future action. AR 29. Graduation Exercises Attendance at graduation exercises is optional for graduating students. In accordance with procedures obtained from the Registrar’s Office, the candidate is responsible for declaring whether or not they will attend commencement, regardless of the term in which requirements are completed. AR 30. Auditing Courses Audit registration permits a student to enroll in a course for no credit and no grade. Course requirements for an audited course will be determined by the course instructor. Audit registration is available to degree and non-degree students. Audit registration is only allowable during the second full week of the term. Those who wish to audit should contact the Office of the Registrar for registration procedures, which will require approval of the course instructor. Audit courses are assessed instructional fees at the same rate as for credit courses. Any changes to an audit registration are subject to the same procedures, deadlines, and special fees as for registration changes to regular courses. Upon completion of an audited course, the designation of AUD will be recorded on the transcript. The designation of WAU will be recorded on the transcript for students who withdraw from an audit course. AR 31. Academic Fresh Start Policy (Undergraduate Students) An Oregon State University undergraduate student may petition once with the registrar to exclude OSU courses from the calculation of institutional requirements, credits, and grade-point average, under a condition of Academic Fresh Start defined below: Conditions to qualify: The student must have an absence from OSU that begins after the end of the student’s last term of attendance and exceeds five years before re-admittance to a degree program at OSU. Prior to applying for Academic Fresh Start, the student must, after re-enrolling in the university, have successfully completed a minimum of 24 letter-graded units from OSU over consecutive terms, and earned a grade-point average of at least 2.5 in these terms. The student must also provide a signed letter of recommendation from a current OSU college dean, school director, or department or program chair/head. It may be seconded by the college head advisor or a current faculty member within the discipline the student is currently engaged to complete advocating on the student’s behalf for Academic Fresh Start. Effect of the Academic Fresh Start: Upon meeting all of the conditions of qualification, the student may select from one to three contiguous academic terms from previous enrollment at OSU to which the Academic Fresh Start will be applied. The grades1 from all courses taken during the terms that are proposed for Academic Fresh Start will be excluded from meeting institutional requirements and the calculation of institutional units and grade-point average. All grades representing the student’s academic history at OSU will appear on the student’s academic record (transcript), but all Academic Fresh Start approved courses will be coded as "excluded" similar to a repeated course. Additionally, a comment of "Academic Fresh Start" will be appended to each term that qualifies under Academic Fresh Start. All courses excluded under Academic Fresh Start, will also be excluded from the calculation of course repeats defined by AR 20. 1 Valid grades include outstanding I (Incomplete) grades that have not been resolved. Faculty Senate revised AR 31 effective academic year 2021–2022. AR 32. Undergraduate Standalone Certificates a. Standalone Certificates: A student who has not received a baccalaureate degree from either OSU or another regionally accredited university or college may be granted a standalone certificate. The student must: Complete current requirements for standalone certificate; a minimum of 15 credits in the standalone certificate must be taken in academic residence; Achieve a minimum of 2.0 OSU cumulative grade-point average and a minimum of 2.0 for credits applying toward the standalone certificate; Receive the dean’s approval. Faculty Senate approved AR 32 effective academic year 2020–2021. 2021-2022 Catalog Academic Advising Academic Regulations Administration & Accreditation Admission to Oregon State University Archives Colleges, Schools, Departments & Programs Course Descriptions Course Subject Area Contacts Earning a Degree Ecampus Faculty A-Z Financial Aid & Scholarships Glossary & Catalog Definitions Grades, Regulations & Records How to Read the Schedule of Classes Information Services, Computers & Academic Technologies INTO OSU Museums, Galleries & Collections OSU Office of Global Opportunities (OSU GO) Programs Research Search Classes Tuition, Fees & Payment Tutoring & Student Support Services Published by the Office of the Registrar Oregon State University B102 Kerr Administration Building Corvallis, OR 97331-2130 Phone: 541-737-4331 Email: catalog@oregonstate.edu Copyright © 2021-2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of the entire Bulletin All pages in Academic Catalog. Cancel