Skip to Content East Carolina University Office of the Registrar | Phone: 252.328.6524 East Carolina University May 31, 2022 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog Select a Catalog 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2014 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2014 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2012-2013 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2012-2013 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home The University Academic Advisement, Progression and Support Services Academic Regulations Admission and Readmission Colleges/Schools and Associated Programs Certificates, Degrees and other Undergraduate Programs NC Community College Transfers Courses Distance Education/ECU Online Expenses and Financial Assistance General Education Program Scholar, International, and Leadership Programs Student Affairs What’s New This Year? Academic Calendars Archived Catalogs Campus Map Faculty Emeriti Graduate Catalog University Policies HELP 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog The University Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Welcome University Mission Message from Chancellor Philip Rogers Organization of the University of North Carolina Board of Governors Officers of Administration Organization of East Carolina University Board of Trustees Officers of Administration Office of the Chancellor Office of the Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Deans Office of the Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs Administration and Finance Athletics Health Sciences Deans Information Technology and Computing Services Research Economic Development and Engagement University Advancement Academic Divisions, Colleges, and Schools Divison of Academic Affairs Division of Health Sciences Division of Research Economic Development and Engagement Division of Student Affairs Academic Integrity Accreditation Campus Libraries Joyner Library Laupus Health Sciences Library ECU Alumni Association Information Technology and Computing Services Office for Equity and Diversity Office of Academic Outreach and Distance Education Welcome On July 2, 1908, former governor Thomas Jordan Jarvis, considered to be the father of ECU, made the following remark as he broke ground for a teachers training school where Jarvis Residence Hall now stands: “We can never begin to calculate the value it will be to North Carolina.” The teachers school, chartered by the North Carolina General Assembly on March 8, 1907, as a two-year normal school, opened its first regular session on October 5, 1909, with 174 men and women students enrolled. The first graduating class received diplomas on June 6, 1911. The years that followed revealed the accuracy of Jarvis’ statement. Since its inception in 1907, ECU has evolved from a training school for teachers to a national research university. The student population has grown from 147 to nearly 29,000. The campus now includes more than 185 buildings in four locations: the central campus, health sciences, athletics, and west research campus. The university is home to twelve colleges and schools, including an Honors College and the Graduate School. ECU has become the institution that was envisioned by its early leaders, fulfilling its motto, “to serve.” Today’s leadership continues to build upon the foundation laid by Robert H. Wright, the first president of the university: We will give to the rising generation the purest inheritance of the nation and better preparation than has ever been given to a preceding generation. This school is an expression of that determination; it was built by the people, for the people, and may it ever remain with the people, as a servant of the people. East Carolina University is one of The University of North Carolina’s seventeen campuses. The University of North Carolina includes sixteen universities and the North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics, the country’s first public residential high school for gifted students. University Mission To be a national model for student success, public service and regional transformation, East Carolina University: Uses innovative learning strategies and delivery methods to maximize access; Prepares students with the knowledge, skills and values to succeed in a global, multicultural society; Develops tomorrow’s leaders to serve and inspire positive change; Discovers new knowledge and innovations to support a thriving future for eastern North Carolina and beyond; Transforms health care, promotes wellness, and reduces health disparities; and Improves quality of life through cultural enrichment, academics, the arts, and athletics. We accomplish our mission through education, research, creative activities, and service while being good stewards of the resources entrusted to us. Message from Chancellor Philip Rogers This will be my first fall as chancellor of ECU and I look forward to seeing the vibrancy of this university when all of Pirate Nation is together once again. The mission and Pirate spirit are part of what brought me and my family back home to Greenville to serve this great university. My priorities and vision for ECU’s future are framed around a deep personal passion and commitment to the institution and its mission. The ECU community is centered around a set of shared goals that always begin and end with the three core components of our mission: Student Success, Public Service, and Regional Transformation. And as we deliver on that mission, we’re going to do it in a future-focused, innovation-driven way that will put people at the center and will embrace a culture of agility. We’ll ensure you have an engaging academic experience and we’re ready to provide you with a quality college experience that includes courses taught by our knowledgeable faculty. You will also benefit from the support of our talented academic and career advisors, and thoughtful staff in student services units across campus. We plan to resume many of our traditional programming put on pause by the pandemic so find ways to get involved and get the most out of your time at ECU. We’re also focused on your safety as a member of the Pirate family. While it’s not required, we’re strongly encourage our students and employees to get vaccinated to reduce the risk of contracting COVID-19, to minimize the impact on our local medical providers, and to help us reach “community immunity.” During your time at ECU, we want you to be fully engaged, learn, lead, play, grow, invest in yourself and others, and to finish strong. My hope is that each of you will walk away from your time at ECU knowing your experience here has prepared you to be successful and make a difference in the world. Organization of the University of North Carolina The University of North Carolina Board of Governors is the policy-making body legally charged with “the general determination, control, supervision, management, and governance of all affairs of the constituent institutions.” It elects the president, who administers The University. Board of Governors Randy C. Ramsey, Chair Wendy Floyd Murphy, Vice Chair Pearl Burris-Floyd, Secretary Term Expiring in 2021 Kellie Hunt Blue, Lumberton, NC Jimmy D. Clark, Greensboro, NC Carolyn Lloyd Coward, Arden, NC N. Leo Daughtry, Smithfield, NC Reginald Ronal Holley, Southport, NC W. Marty Kotis III, Summerfield, NC Steven B. Long, Raleigh, NC Wendy F. Murphy, Wallace, NC R. Doyle Parrish, Raleigh, NC Art Pope, Raleigh, NC Randall “Randy” Ramsey, Beaufort, NC Dwight D. Stone, Greensboro, NC Term Expiring in 2022 Raymond Palma, Durham, NC Term Expiring in 2023 C. Philip Byers, Forest City, NC Joel Ford, Charlotte, NC Thomas “Thom” C. Goolsby, Wilmington, NC James L. Holmes, Jr., Raleigh, NC Martin Holton, Winston Salem, NC Terry Hutchens, Fayetteville, NC J. Alex Mitchell, Durham, NC Anna S. Nelson, Charlotte, NC David M. Powers, Raleigh, NC O. Temple Sloan III, Raleigh, NC Michael Williford, Fayetteville, NC Emeritus W. Louis Bissette, Jr., Asheville, NC Officers of Administration William L. Roper, Interim President Senior Leadership Team Matthew Brody, Vice President for Human Resources Pete Brunstetter, Interim Chief Operating Officer Clinton P. Carter, Senior Vice President for Finance and Administration and CFO Andrew P. Kelly, Senior Vice President for Strategy and Policy Christopher McClure, Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff Kimberly van Noort, Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs Tom Shanahan, Senior Vice President Governance, Legal, and Risk and General Counsel Organization of East Carolina University Each institution in the UNC system has a board of trustees, which holds extensive powers over academic and other operations of its institution on delegation from the UNC Board of Governors. Board of Trustees (Updated: 7/24/2021) Scott Shook, Chair Jason Poole, Vice Chair Vince Smith, Secretary Members Cassie Burt, Emerald Isle, NC Leigh Fanning, Greenville, NC Tom Furr, Durham, NC Dave Fussell, Wallace, NC Van Isley, Raleigh, NC Fielding Miller, Raleigh, NC Angela Moss, Chapel Hill, NC Jason Poole, Fayetteville, NC Jeffrey Roberts, Williamston, NC Jim Segrave, Kinston, NC Scott Shook, Greenville, NC Vince Smith, Vienna, VA Chandler Ward, Greenville, NC (SGA President) Officers of Administration Each of the sixteen constituent institutions is headed by a chancellor, who is elected by the UNC Board of Governors on the president’s nomination and is responsible to the president. Office of the Chancellor Philip Rogers, Chancellor Megan Ayers, Assistant Secretary to the Board of Trustees Christopher Locklear, Chief of Staff Paul Zigas, University Counsel and Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs (Updated: 7/24/2021) Wayne Poole, Chief Audit Officer Office of the Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Grant Hayes, Interim Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Angela Anderson, Associate Vice Chancellor, Chief Academic Success Officer and University Registrar Steve Ballard, Director, BB&T Center for Leadership LaKesha A. Forbes, Associate Provost for Equity and Diversity Allen Guidry, Vice Provost for Academic Affairs Linda M. Ingalls, Associate Vice Chancellor for Personnel Administration Janice S. Lewis, Director, Academic Library Services Jon Rezek, Assistant Vice Chancellor for Global Affairs Wendy Sergeant, Associate Vice Chancellor of Administration Stephanie Whaley, Assistant Vice Chancellor and Director for Undergraduate Admissions Sarah Williams, Executive Director, Office for Faculty Excellence and the STEPP Program Ying Zhou, Associate Provost for Institutional Planning, Assessment and Research Deans D. Reide Corbett, Dean of Integrated Coastal Programs and Executive Director of the Coastal Studies Institute Allison Danell, Dean of the Thomas Harriot College of Arts and Sciences Paul Gemperline, Dean of the Graduate School Linda Kean, Interim Dean of the College of Fine Arts and Communication Harry Ploehn, Dean of the College of Engineering and Technology Art Rouse, Acting Dean of the College of Education Paul Schwager, Dean of the College of Business David White, Dean of the Honors College Anisa Zvonkovic, Dean of the College of Health and Human Performance Office of the Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs Virginia D. Hardy, Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs Susan Chapman, Executive Director, Business Administration Kathleen E. Hill, Executive Director of Student Affairs Assessment, Research and Planning Erik Kneubuehl, Associate Vice Chancellor of Student Involvement and Leadership Peter Groenendyk, Associate Vice Chancellor of Campus Living Lynn Roeder, Associate Vice Chancellor and Dean of Students Christopher Stansbury, Associate Vice Chancellor and Senior Operating Officer for Student Affairs William Williams, Director of Student Affairs Development, Parent and Family Programs Administration and Finance Stephanie M. Coleman, Vice Chancellor for Administration and Finance (Updated: 7/24/2021) William “Bill” Bagnell, Associate Vice Chancellor for Campus Operations Dee Bowling, Associate Vice Chancellor for Financial Services Kevin Carraway, Director for Materials Management and Real Estate Stephanie Coleman, Associate Vice Chancellor for Budget and Athletics Fiscal Affairs William “Bill” R. Koch, Associate Vice Chancellor for Campus Safety and Auxiliary Services Zach Loch, Associate Vice Chancellor and Chief Information Officer Gary R. Vanderpool, Executive Associate Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences, Chief Resource Management Officer Kitty Wetherington, Associate Vice Chancellor for Human Resources Athletics Jon Gilbert, Director of Athletics Caroline Bevillard, Senior Associate Athletics Director, Administration & SWA Stephanie Coleman, Associate Vice Chancellor, Budget and Athletics Fiscal Affairs Mike Hanley, Senior Associate Athletics Director, Student Services Alex Keddie, Senior Associate Athletics Director, Compliance J.J. McLamb, Executive Associate Athletics Director, Internal Operations Ryan Robinson, Executive Associate Athletics Director, External Operations Health Sciences Ron Mitchelson, Interim Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences Paul D. Barry, Director, Office of Prospective Health L. Lorraine Basnight, Executive Director of Eastern Area Health Education Center Michelle Brooks, Chief of Staff for the Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences Stephen Charles, Interim Assistant Vice Chancellor for Interprofessional Collaboration Maria Clay, Director, Clinical Skills Assessment Kenneth DeVille, Director, Risk Management Michelle DeVille, Chief Integrity Officer and HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer Lisa W. Hudson, Associate Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences Human Resources Thomas G. Irons, Associate Vice Chancellor for International Education Elizabeth “Beth” Ketterman, Director, Laupus Health Sciences Library Darrell Neufer, Director, East Carolina Diabetes and Obesity Institute Gary R. Vanderpool, Executive Associate Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences Administration and Finance Amanda Williams, Associate University Attorney for Health Sciences Paul Zigas, Senior Associate University Attorney for Health Sciences Deans Sylvia T. Brown, Dean, College of Nursing Gregory Chadwick, Dean, School of Dental Medicine Jason Higginson, Executive Dean, Brody School of Medicine Robert F. Orlikoff, Dean, College of Allied Health Sciences Michael Waldrum, Dean, Brody School of Medicine Information Technology and Computing Services Zach Loch, Associate Vice Chancellor and Chief Information Officer Cheryl Godwin, Director, Network Services Hector Molina, Deputy CIO and Director, Client Engagement and Support Johnny Rose, Director, Enterprise Systems and Operations Doug Stanley, Director, Enterprise Information Systems Scotty Stroup, Director, Enterprise Data Services Mark Webster, Chief Information Security Officer Research, Economic Development, and Engagement Mike Van Scott, Interim Vice Chancellor of Research, Economic Development and Engagement Ariana Billingsley, Director of the Small Business and Technology Development Center at ECU Julie B. Cole, Director of Compliance Monitoring and Strategic Initiatives Deb Elek, Director of Research Integrity and Compliance Mary Farwell, Assistant Vice Chancellor for Research Compliance Merrill Flood, Director of Community Engagement Becky Gardner, Director of Operations Jim Menke, Director of National Security Initiatives Sharon Paynter, Assistant Vice Chancellor for Economic and Community Engagement Suzanne Sparrow, Director of the University and Medical Center Institutional Review Board Marti Van Scott, Director of Licensing and Commercialization Kathryn Verbanac, Assistant Vice Chancellor for Research Development and Advancement Becky Welch, Assistant Vice Chancellor for Research Administration and Finance Keith Wheeler, Executive Director of National Security and Industry Initiatives University Advancement Christopher M. Dyba, Vice Chancellor for University Advancement and President ECU Foundation, Inc. Greg Abeyounis, Senior Associate Vice Chancellor for University Development, Planned Giving and Annual Giving Kendra K. Alexander, Associate Vice Chancellor for Development Scott E. Francis, Associate Vice Chancellor and President of the ECU Alumni Association Herb Garrison, Interim President of the Medical and Health Sciences Foundation Sharon K. Hamilton, Senior Director of Corporate and Foundation Relations Jeff McPherson, Interim Executive Director of Development Operations and ECU Medical and Health Sciences Foundation Bobby Tuggle, Director of Advancement Services and Supervisor of Enterprise Information Systems Academic Divisions, Colleges, and Schools Division of Academic Affairs Academic Outreach, Continuing and Distance Education Academic Success Academic Advising and Support Center Financial Aid Pirate Academic Success Center Student Development (Athletics) University Registrar University Scholarships BB&T Center for Leadership Development College of Arts and Sciences (Thomas Harriot College of Arts and Sciences) College of Business The Miller School of Entrepreneurship College of Education ECU Community School College of Engineering and Technology Center for Sustainable Energy and Environmental Engineering College of Fine Arts and Communication School of Art and Design School of Communication School of Music School of Theatre and Dance College of Health and Human Performance School of Social Work Digital Learning and Emerging Technology Initiatives Graduate School Honors College Innovation Early College High School Integrated Coastal Programs Coastal Studies Institute Office of Diving and Water Safety Joyner Library Office for Equity and Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Equal Opportunity and Equity Office for Faculty Excellence Office of Administration Office of Global Affairs Office of Global Academic Initiatives ECU Language Academy (ECULA) ECU Tuscany Office of Institutional Planning, Assessment and Research Undergraduate Admissions Walter and Marie Williams STEPP Program Division of Health Sciences Brody School of Medicine College of Allied Health Sciences College of Nursing School of Dental Medicine Center for Health Disparities East Carolina Diabetes and Obesity Institute East Carolina Health Institute at ECU Eastern Area Health Education Center Health Sciences Administration and Finance Health Sciences Human Resources Laupus Library Medical and Health Sciences Foundation, Inc. NC Agromedicine Institute Office of Prospective Health Division of Research, Economic Development, and Engagement Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Office of Continuing and Professional Education Office of Grants and Contracts Office of Innovation and Economic Development Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Office for Research Integrity and Compliance Office of Sponsored Programs Office of Undergraduate Research Division of Student Affairs Assessment, Research and Planning Business Administration Campus Living - Housing Operations/Residence Life Campus Recreation and Wellness Career Services Center for Counseling and Student Development Center for Leadership and Civic Engagement Central Reservations Office Dean of Students Dining Services Disability Support Services Dr. Jesse R. Peel LGBTQ Center ECU Transit First Year Programs Greek Life Intercultural Affairs Ledonia Wright Cultural Center Off-Campus Student Services Office of Parent and Family Programs Pirate Media 1 Student Affairs Administration Student Affairs Development Student Affairs Divisional Communications Student Affairs Technology Services Student Centers Student Engagement Student Government Association Student Health Services Student Involvement and Leadership Student Rights and Responsibilities Student Transitions Student Veteran Services Transfer Student Services Victim Services Academic Integrity Academic integrity is a cornerstone value of the intellectual community at ECU and is expected of every student. Academically violating the Honor Code consists of the following: cheating - the giving or receiving of any unauthorized aid or assistance or the giving or receiving of unfair advantage on any form of academic work; plagiarism - copying the language, structure, ideas, and/or thoughts of another and adopting those as one’s original work; falsification - statement of untruth, either verbal or written, regarding any circumstances relating to academic work; and attempting any act which if completed would constitute an academic integrity violation as defined above. No student may drop the involved course or withdraw from school prior to resolving an academic integrity charge. Procedures governing academic integrity violations are described in the East Carolina University Faculty Manual. Students are encouraged to speak with their professors or contact the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities if they have questions regarding this policy. Accreditation East Carolina University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award baccalaureate, master’s, and doctoral degrees. Questions about the accreditation of East Carolina University may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org). All ECU educator preparation programs are approved by the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction (NCDPI) and are accredited based on the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) standards for a period of 7 years, from fall 2015 to spring 2022. ECU is eligible and will seek accreditation based on the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP) standards in spring 2022. CAEP is the single specialized accreditor for educator preparation and administers NCATE accreditation. Specialized accrediting agencies are as follows: Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics* Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education* Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education* Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant American Association of Family and Consumer Sciences American Council for Construction Education American Psychological Association* Association of Technology, Management, and Applied Engineering Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education* Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education* Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs Commission on Accreditation of Medical Physics Education Programs Commission on Dental Accreditation* Commission on English Language Program Accreditation* Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs Council for Interior Design Accreditation Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology* Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs* Council on Accreditation of Parks, Recreation, Tourism, and Related Professions Council on Education for Public Health* Council on Social Work Education Liaison Committee on Medical Education* National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Science National Association of Schools of Art and Design* National Association of Schools of Music* National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration National Association of Schools of Theatre* National Environmental Health Science and Protection Accreditation Council Planning Accreditation Board * US Department of Education recognized accrediting agency For more information about accreditation at ECU, please contact Institutional Planning, Assessment and Research (252-328-9492 or ipar@ecu.edu). Campus Libraries Joyner Library Joyner Library is the main campus library at East Carolina University. Joyner offers an abundance of print and online resources, including: • 1.9 million print volumes • More than 1 million electronic books including free online textbooks at https://lib.ecu.edu/alt-texts • More than 11,000 DVDs and videos • More than 28,000 CDs and other sound recordings • More than 120,000 online and print journals and other serials • More than 450 databases • Special Collections, manuscripts, and rare books Joyner Library has more than 280 computers for use by students. Each is loaded with Microsoft Office Suite, Internet tools, and specialized course-related software. Free printing and scanning are available. Wireless access is available throughout the library. Students may use their own laptops or borrow library-owned laptops for use in the building. In addition to laptops, the library loans video cameras, digital cameras, projectors, scientific calculators, ebook readers, GoPro camera, and other equipment. Equipment is checked out from the Circulation Desk, near the library entrance. Joyner Library has more than 100 individual and group study rooms, many equipped with large monitors for laptop hookup. Open study space is provided on all floors of the library; numerous study carrels are available for individual quiet study. Snacks and drinks can be purchased from the library’s Starbucks location or from vending machines. All students registered at East Carolina University, regardless of location, have access to the library’s subscription-based electronic resources. Students can use these resources to find journal articles, read newspapers, and check out e-books without leaving their home or dorm room. Access is provided through the library’s website at http://www.lib.ecu.edu. Student status is verified by Pirate ID and password. In addition, the online Joyner Library catalog can be searched from any location. The Research and Instructional Services Department offers personal assistance to members of the ECU community (both on-campus and distance learners) who need help with their research and course assignments. Assistance is provided at the research assistance desk, by telephone, text and instant messaging, and via the Ask a Librarian email service. “Book a Librarian” is a service that allows students to choose a time to meet one-on-one with a librarian about their topic for 30-60 minutes. Meetings can be scheduled as quickly as 24 hours in advance. Members of the Research and Instructional Services staff help users identify relevant print and online sources, learn to use these sources, formulate search strategies, find statistical data, and much more. The Research and Instructional Services Department is located on the first floor, at the back of the library. It houses the Reference collection, which includes high-quality print and online reference materials and databases. Circulation Services include checking materials and equipment in and out, managing print and electronic reserves, and assisting patrons. Students must present an ECU OneCard or distance education student card to check out materials. Through a worldwide network of thousands of libraries, Interlibrary Loan (ILL) provides ECU students with research materials not available from Joyner Library at no charge – often within days for articles and one or two weeks for loaned items. Articles are delivered via e-mail. Whether the items are owned by Joyner Library or borrowed from another library, distance education students who live outside Pitt County can use Document Delivery to have articles delivered by e-mail and have books and other materials shipped to their home address. One of the most inviting areas of the library is the Special Collections Department on the third floor. The department includes the Verona Joyner Langford North Carolina Collection which collects, preserves, provides access to, and actively promotes the use of printed and non-print materials pertaining to the state. Holdings include books, broadsides, clipping and vertical files, maps, microforms, periodicals and state documents. The collection emphasizes the history of eastern North Carolina. Also in Special Collections is the East Carolina Manuscript Collection which contains historical manuscript materials related to North Carolina, the tobacco industry, worldwide missionary activities, and American military history, especially naval and maritime history. Letters, diaries, photographs, financial and legal records, genealogical notes, reports, speeches, oral histories and other unpublished materials covering the period from before 1800 to the present provide a wealth of primary source materials for a vast array of research topics Other collections in Special Collections include University Archives, the Rare Book Collection, Map Collection, Hoover Collection on International Communism, the James H. and Virginia Schlobin Literature of the Fantastic Collection, and the Stuart Wright Collection. The Teaching Resources Center (TRC) is located on the second floor of Joyner Library. It serves as a resource for students enrolled in the teacher education program at East Carolina University and for educators in eastern North Carolina. The TRC service desk provides research assistance supported by educational reference librarians. With new booths, soft seating, and tables, the TRC makes a great study spot. Resources available in the TRC include NC adopted K-12 textbooks, supplementary K-12 textbooks, textbook correlations, bibliographies, guides, mixed media, professional materials, online resources, K-12 reference materials, easy books, big books, juvenile/young adult fiction, nonfiction and biographies. The Ann Rhem Schwarzmann Production Center, located in the TRC, is designed to assist student teachers and educators in creating and producing quality lesson units. It houses two laminators, two Ellison die cut centers with several hundred die cuts, a poster maker system, vinyl cutter, plaque marker, an artwaxer, a light box, a binding machine, several paper cutters, a Badge-A-Minit button maker and cutter, office supplies and computer workstations with educational software installations and resources. The TRC also offers 3D modeling software and printing. Additionally, the Ronnie Barnes African American Resource Center is housed in the TRC. The Music Library is located in the Fletcher Music Center. It offers the same services as Joyner: circulation, reserves, reference assistance, bibliographic instruction, interlibrary loan, a group study/listening/viewing room, quiet study area, scanner, photocopiers, and printers. The collection consists of more than 90,000 books, music scores, periodicals, software, and sound and video recordings representative of all types and periods of music. PCs, Macs, and playback equipment for CDs, DVDs, DAT, LPs, videocassettes, mini-discs, CD-ROMs, laser discs, and audiocassettes are available for use by library patrons. Joyner Library is open extensive hours each week. Hours are posted on the main entrance of the building. Special hours are posted for holidays and semester breaks. The library maintains a recording of current operating hours that may be obtained by telephoning 252-328-4285. Hours are also posted on the website at http://www.ecu.edu/lib/about/hours.cfm. Laupus Health Sciences Library Laupus Library serves the Division of Health Sciences which includes the Brody School of Medicine, College of Allied Health Sciences, the College of Nursing, School of Dental Medicine, Vidant Medical Center and Vidant System affiliates. The library also has a mission to connect Eastern Area Health Education Center (EAHEC) preceptors, health practitioners in eastern North Carolina, and ECU’s health education, research and clinical programs to quality information at the point of need. The 72,000 square foot library located in the Health Sciences Building on ECU’s Health Sciences Campus includes reservable classrooms, small group study rooms, computer workstations, and collaborative workspaces with access to print and electronic collections. The Library supports wired and wireless networks and printing, a computer lab, reference services, and circulating and historical book collections. Visual programs and a large collection of anatomical models are available to the university community. Laupus also hosts the only Virtual Reality Lab on the ECU campus accessible to all students and employees and manages a One Button recording studio for video production needs. Access Services, located on the 2nd floor of the library, manages circulation of materials, including audiovisuals, anatomical models and charts, and more. The department also manages an equipment loan program which lends laptops, hot spots, cameras, VR headsets, and other technologies. To check out materials and to access the variety of services offered, users will need an ECU OneCard or a distance education student card. The Information and Research Services Department librarians provide reference assistance and are available to guide clients to the most efficient and effective means of accessing the library’s resources. Liaison librarians are assigned to colleges and schools in the Division of Health Sciences to provide information services, education programs, collection development assistance and curriculum coordination. Services include instruction in expert and evidence-based searching, research consultations, systematic review searching and methodology preparation, and instruction on the use of literature databases and other online resources. Information Services librarians create and maintain online research guides and tutorials to help users better understand and locate the information they need. The Document Delivery and Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Department provides clients with access to needed materials from outside institutions and provides other libraries with access to materials from Laupus collections. Document Delivery is a free copy service for ECU faculty, staff, students and Vidant Health staff for materials (articles and books) owned by either Laupus or Academic Library Services. ILL borrowing is a free service for ECU faculty, staff, students and Vidant Health staff who order articles or books from other institutions. If you are not an ECU faculty, staff, student or Vidant Health staff please see Policies and Fees for more information on the fees for this service. Collection Services orders all library circulating, reference, and history materials and ensures the discovery, access, and security is maintained for those materials through metadata application, performing maintenance and analysis of statistical data, electronic resource management, and physical processing. The department is responsible for the quality and consistency of the library’s holdings in the online catalog which can be accessed at https://catalog.lib.ecu.edu/. The department also processes all material gifts. Please see Donating Materials for more information on gifting materials to the library, such as books, journals, artifacts, manuscripts, or other items. History Collections manages books, artifacts, and manuscript collections relevant to the history of the health sciences, primarily in eastern North Carolina. Management of these materials includes preserving, conserving, curating, exhibiting, and making the items available for research. Archival collections for both Laupus Library and the Country Doctor Museum are housed within the History Collections. Laupus Library also operates the Country Doctor Museum located in Bailey, NC. The Country Doctor Museum is the oldest museum in the United States dedicated to the history of America’s rural health care. Located on the second floor, the Computer Lab contains state-of-the-art technology providing a full range of resources to ECU faculty, staff, and students including PC’s, iMac’s, high-speed document scanners, a flatbed scanner, a color book scanner, high-volume black and white laser printers, and a color laser printer. Over forty (40) software titles are available in the computer lab ranging from word processing, spreadsheet, statistical, and presentation software to discipline-specific programs that complement the Division of Health Sciences curriculum. Two computer classrooms support the library’s instructional services program and are available for reservation by ECU faculty and staff. Room 2502G seats thirty-two (32) people at computers while room 3503 seats thirty (30). Both rooms include an instructor computer, a networked printer, and a projection system to assist with presentations, training and orientations. Laupus Library hours are posted at the main entrance of the library and on our website. Special hours for holidays and semester breaks are on our website. For more information including hours, announcements and detailed descriptions of all library services and collections please visit https://hsl.ecu.edu. ECU Alumni Association The ECU Alumni Association was created to develop a spirit of cooperation and loyalty among alumni and to promote the general welfare of the institution. The scope of the association, organized by the classes of 1911 and 1912 in June 1912, has grown tremendously as the alumni population has multiplied with a growing ECU. Further information concerning upcoming events and opportunities, please visit the ECU Alumni Association website. Information Technology and Computing Services Information Technology and Computing Services (ITCS) provides ECU students, faculty, staff and alumni with up-to-date information technology services and support. Visit the New Students Getting Started web page (go.ecu.edu/itcs/new-students) for a comprehensive list of resources, policies and guidelines available to new ECU students. The IT Help Desk offers technical assistance to ECU students regarding software, hardware, and network-related questions through e-mail, telephone or live online chat. Students can check their ECU Office 365 e-mail at mymail.ecu.edu. Office 365 provides an official ECU e-mail account with calendar and contacts; up to five licenses for Microsoft Office 2016 (Mac or PC); Office apps for mobile devices (Android, iOS, Windows); and OneDrive for Business cloud storage that includes Office Online. More information is available at http://go.ecu.edu/office365. All enrolled ECU students are also eligible for upgrades for Microsoft Windows (http://go.ecu.edu/itcs/microsoft-students) at no cost. Upon graduation, East Carolina students are provided a lifetime e-mail address that shows graduates’ affinity to their alma mater. ECU’s Student Computing Initiative is a comprehensive campus-wide effort addressing the support of student computers in the academic environment. Several academic programs require or strongly recommend that their students own a laptop computer as a part of the degree curriculum. The degree programs vary on when the computer will be required within the life of the program. ECU strongly recommends that all incoming freshmen not enrolled in one of the participating academic programs have access to a computer that meets minimum specifications in order to complete coursework. For a list of computer requirements by department and minimum recommended configurations for various ECU majors visit the Pirate Techs website. (http://go.ecu.edu/computer-requirements) Pirate Techs Student Computing Support Center (http://go.ecu.edu/itcs/pirate-techs) provides support for students who need help with software or hardware support, network connectivity, mobile email setup, Microsoft software installation, virus and spyware removal, data transfer and recovery, and operating system installs and upgrades. Hardware repairs are offered to students with Apple, Dell, and Lenovo computers covered under warranty. Dowdy Student Stores sell computer equipment and software at an educational discount. Many general-purpose computer labs are available in key locations around campus, as well as many department-specific locations. To locate available labs, visit the Campus Labs web page (http://go.ecu.edu/itcs/labs) where a click on any computer icon opens details such as real-time seat availability, phone contacts and building location. Students can also use the Virtual Computing Lab to access many software programs from their home computer (http://go.ecu.edu/itcs/vcl). All students receive a monetary credit for printing each year. Allocated from student technology fees, credits are attached to a student’s PirateID at the beginning of each semester. More information is at http://go.ecu.edu/itcs/print-quotas. Printing is available in all computer labs. Pirate Print allows students to print from personal computers on or off campus to printing kiosks located across campus (http://go.ecu.edu/itcs/pirate-print). Students have two options for file storage: OneDrive and Piratedrive. OneDrive is included in the Microsoft Office 365 suite and is approved for storing coursework, project files, shared documents, and collaboration. Piratedrive is an online storage folder created for each student, faculty, and staff. Each folder is password-protected, secure and backed up nightly. Students have 125GB of space to store course assignments, videos, photos, and more. On-campus users access their personal Piratedrive through “My Computer” if they are logged in to the Intra domain. It is labeled as the “U” drive. Personal Piratedrive folders are accessible off campus through Pirate Port or through a Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection. All residence halls have wireless networking. Before accessing the ECU network, students are encouraged to install university-approved antivirus software. Use of university software requires students agree to comply with applicable university IT (information technology) policies (http://go.ecu.edu/itcs/policies) and copyright laws (www.copyright.gov; http://libguides.ecu.edu/copyright). ECU’s Pirate Port Web portal (pirateport.ecu.edu/portal) allows students to review financial aid information, register for courses, and look up grades online. ECU Mobile keeps students, faculty, and staff connected to East Carolina University from on or off campus. Students can instantly contact other Pirates from the ECU directory, stay-in-the-loop with the latest campus news, keep tabs on ECU Pirate sports, watch videos from recent campus events, check grades, access course content and browse the university’s academic catalogs. Download ECU Mobile from the iTunes Store, and Android Market on Google Play. Students can also visit m.ecu.edu for mobile browsing. ITCS provides a suite of educational technologies to support teaching and learning in both online and face-to-face courses. ITCS supports the Canvas learning management system that enables students to access course content, check grades, post to discussion forums, view important class announcements, read and download assignments, upload content, and more. Updates, resources, and tutorials for Canvas are accessible from the Canvas login page: http://canvas.ecu.edu. Mediasite, a lecture-capture system, is available to meet campus needs and is integrated with to record on-screen activity, audio, and video. The Mediasite Desktop Recorder (MDR) can be used in or outside of the classroom and recordings are easily accessed within Canvas or through a shared course catalog. With more than 400 technology-enhanced classrooms on campus, many faculty record their lectures and share recordings through Canvas to provide access to content anytime, anywhere. Many of the technology-enhanced classrooms are equipped with Mediasite lecture capture systems. Webex Cloud serves as another feature-rich web conferencing tool for ECU students and faculty. Webex Cloud allows for Outlook scheduling, desktop sharing, audio or video calling, personal meeting rooms, mobile meeting hosting, Microsoft Office integration, and browser integration for Internet Explorer, Chrome and Firefox. Mediasite automatically optimizes content to suit the available screen size and provide the best experience on iOS, Android, and Windows Surface devices. Canvas provides access to course content through mobile apps. It’s easy to learn new technologies through our many training opportunities. Sign up with Microsoft Imagine Academy and choose modules to learn Microsoft Office, Windows and more, while free SAS training prepares users for statistical research. ECU students also have access to http://www.linkedin.com/learning, an online library of instructional videos teaching the latest software tools and skills, via the Web, Canvas, or the mobile app. More information is available at http://go.ecu.edu/linkedin. By using university IT resources, students accept that they are accessing the university-owned network, and that unauthorized or illegal use of the university network is prohibited. Illegally downloading copyrighted music, movies and other protected material via file-sharing programs can cost students their network access. Visit http://go.ecu.edu/filesharing for more information. ITCS regularly shares security tips on topics such as avoiding identity theft, protecting portable devices and personal information, and staying safe online at http://go.ecu.edu/itcs/security. To learn more about all on-campus technologies visit the ITCS website at http://go.ecu.edu/itcs, which provides a comprehensive look at many of the technology resources and policies for ECU students. Additionally, the ECU Technology News e-mail newsletter, ECU Educational Technology Digest e-mail newsletter, Twitter posts (TechatECU), and Facebook posts (www.facebook.com/ITCSatECU) provide valuable information on upcoming software updates, training opportunities and new technology projects affecting the university community. Office for Equity and Diversity The Office for Equity and Diversity engages in programming, compliance, and outreach to foster a diverse and inclusive living, learning, and working community. Through leadership and partnerships, we provide dynamic educational experiences, prepare our students to lead in a global multicultural society, and engage the region with inclusive social and economic opportunities. Office of Academic Outreach and Distance Education The Office of Academic Outreach and Distance Education serves as a bridge between the student at a distance and the academic and administrative units of the university. The office supports the university in advancing its leadership role in the areas of distance and online learning both in our region and beyond. The educational and economic development of the citizens of its service area is a focal point for the office. The office partners with the academic and administrative units of the university, the UNC System, and the North Carolina Community College System to meet the needs of the education, healthcare, technology, business, industry and military affiliated communities. The Office of Academic Outreach and Distance Education includes the following program areas: Distance and Online Education Military Outreach State Authorization Compliance Testing Services In order to fulfill the needs of a widely diversified group of students, our undergraduate degree completion programs, and graduate degrees are offered online via the Internet. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 East Carolina University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).