Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advising Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog College of Communications Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) “As one of the largest Colleges of Communications in the country, we are proud of our legacy of providing diverse students access to an affordable and top-quality education that leads to lifelong success. Our alumni have achieved great heights in a variety of prominent careers. Working closely with world-class faculty, our students earn degrees that provide them with the tools to act as ethical global citizens as they pursue their chosen professions.” Dean Bey-Ling Sha College of Communications Associate Dean Deanna Leone Dean’s Office College Park 450 657-278-3355 College Website communications.fullerton.edu At the heart of an open society is the free flow of information. Messages and their delivery systems may change with the development of new technologies, but the need for trained communicators to gather, synthesize, verify and disseminate that information remains constant. Training these communication professionals is the mission of the College of Communications. Academic programs in the College cover the full gamut of communications. Four departments deliver a comprehensive curriculum: Cinema and Television Arts; Communication Sciences and Disorders; Communications; and Human Communication Studies. These degree programs prepare students to work in all areas of communications and related fields in business, education, entertainment, government, health care, nonprofit, for profit and more. Co-curricular opportunities offer additional immersive experiences, such as Comm Week, the Latino Communications Institute, the award-winning Daily Titan newspaper and Tusk magazine, Titan TV and Radio, OC News, Al Día, the PRactical ADvantage agency, forensics and debate, the speech and hearing clinic, professional internships, study abroad and a host of clubs and other activities. Cinema and Television Arts, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Cinema and Television Arts, B.A. Master of Fine Arts • Screenwriting, M.F.A. Non-Degree • Cinema and Television Arts Minor Communication Sciences and Disorders, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Communicative Disorders, B.A. Master of Arts • Communicative Disorders, M.A. Non-Degree • American Speech-Language-Hearing Association SLP Certification • California SLP Licensure • Speech-Language Pathology Services Credential in Language, Speech and Hearing Certificate • Communication Sciences and Disorders Multicultural Certificate Communications, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Communications, Advertising Concentration, B.A. • Communications, Entertainment and Tourism Communications Concentration, B.A. • Communications, Journalism Concentration, B.A. • Communications, Public Relations Concentration, B.A. Master of Arts • Communications, Communications in Tourism and Entertainment Concentration, M.A. • Communications, Mass Communications Research and Theory Concentration, M.A. • Communications, Professional Communications Concentration, M.A. Non-Degree • Advertising Minor • Journalism Minor • Public Relations Minor Certificate • Digital Communications Media Certificate • Photocommunications Certificate • Radio-Audio Certificate Human Communication Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Communication Studies, B.A. Master of Arts • Communication Studies, M.A. Non-Degree • Communication Studies Minor Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).