Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in African and African American Studies Select a section... Overview Undergraduate Minor Graduate Program Contact Information Tunde Adeleke 308 Carver Hall afam.las.iastate.edu/ tadeleke@iastate.edu 515-294-9183 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Program: African and African American Studies Interdepartmental Undergraduate Program African and African American Studies, a cross-disciplinary program in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, offers students the opportunity to explore the African Americans’ experience and African American contributions to American culture. Students in the program analyze and learn about African American experiences through the study of history, literature, art, religion, and society. They gain knowledge and develop skills and sensitivities to help them function effectively in today’s diverse society. African and African American Studies at Iowa State University is an expanding program. Most of the courses in the program satisfy general education requirements in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, the human relations requirement for teachers, and the university’s diversity requirement. Students can minor or even design their own Interdisciplinary Studies major with an emphasis in African American Studies. Relevant courses are offered through other departments. Undergraduate Minor A minor in African and African American Studies requires six courses in the program with a minimum of 18 credits, including AF AM 201 Introduction to African American Studies and AF AM 460 Seminar in African American Culture . The remaining credits must come from at least two departments, with at least two courses taken at the junior level or above. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Independent study and internship opportunities are available for credit, but do not count in the minimum requirements for the minor. Graduate Study Several courses can be applied to a graduate program as electives. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.