Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Search Catalog University of Pennsylvania Toggle menu Toggle search Programs Courses Pennbook Search Home/ Undergraduate Catalog/ Interdisciplinary Studies/ University Minors Print Options 2022-23 Catalog 2022-23 Catalog Undergraduate Catalog Programs School of Arts & Sciences School of Engineering and Applied Science School of Nursing The Wharton School Interdisciplinary Studies Coordinated Dual Degree Programs Coordinated Submatriculation Programs University Minors Academic Resources Policies and Procedures Graduate Catalog Programs A-Z Courses A-Z Search Courses Pennbook Faculty Handbook University Minors In addition to minors completed within one school, several interdisciplinary minors combine coursework from the four undergraduate schools. Programs Actuarial Mathematics American Public Policy Neuroscience and Health Services Management Consumer Psychology Legal Studies & History Nursing and Health Services Management Nutrition Sustainability and Environmental Management Urban Education Urban Real Estate and Development Actuarial Mathematics School of Arts & Sciences/The Wharton School Actuarial Science stands at the intersection of risk and money. Actuaries use their knowledge of mathematics and probability theory to define, analyze, and solve complex business, financial, and social problems. Actuaries evaluate individual and corporate risks and design financially sound insurance and pension plans. Graduates from the University of Pennsylvania with an Actuarial Mathematics Minor are expected to be in great demand by the insurance and banking industry. View Program Requirements For more information, visit: https://www.math.upenn.edu/undergraduate/math-majors-and-minors/minor-actuarial-mathematics. American Public Policy School of Arts & Sciences/The Wharton School This program enables undergraduates interested in American public policy to construct an integrated program between the School of Arts and Sciences and the Wharton School. View Program Requirements For more information, visit: https://bepp.wharton.upenn.edu/programs/undergraduate/program-information1/american-public-policy-minor/. Neuroscience and Health Services Management School of Arts & Sciences/The Wharton School The Neuroscience Program and the Health Care Management Department of the Wharton School have jointly sponsored this effort. The objective is to provide students with exposure to two related areas: study in neuroscience and behavioral biology as a leading example of the bioscience enterprise, and health services management as the environment in which science innovation must be developed and managed. The minor consists of eight courses, four from the Neuroscience Program and four from Wharton. Students must earn a minimum grade of C- in courses taken to fulfill the minor requirements. Students must have a minimum of 3 courses that they count towards the minor and not towards any other major of minor. View Program Requirements For more information, visit: https://neuroscience.sas.upenn.edu/studying-neuroscience/requirements/bbb-and-health-services-management-minor Consumer Psychology School of Arts & Sciences/The Wharton School The goal of the interschool Consumer Psychology Minor is to create a program that fosters the natural link between Psychology in the College and Marketing in Wharton. To fulfill the minor, students must complete four courses from the Psychology Department in the College, four courses from the Marketing Department in Wharton, and the stats requirement. Both College and Wharton requirements will consist of core courses along with a set of elective courses. College students who wish to minor in Consumer Psychology must count two of the four required psychology (PSYC) courses towards only the Consumer Psychology minor (and towards no other major or minor). View Program Requirements For more information, visit: https://psychology.sas.upenn.edu/more-information-minors. Legal Studies & History School of Arts & Sciences/The Wharton School The University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School and the College of Arts and Sciences are pleased to offer a unique program of study for undergraduate students that enables them to explore multiple perspectives on law as an inter-school supplement to their major field of study. View Program Requirements For more information, visit: https://lgst.wharton.upenn.edu/minor-in-legal-studies-and-history/. Nursing and Health Services Management School of Nursing/The Wharton School Increasingly, the delivery of health care involves decisions that entail considerations beyond clinical or medical issues. With the rise of managed care in the United States, it is critical for health professionals to understand not only the clinical factors that affect patients but also the business environment in which healthcare institutions function. This program, a partnership between the School of Nursing and The Wharton School, helps students understand both the nature of the economic and managerial constraints that healthcare organizations face, as well as how these constraints can be effectively managed to provide the best possible health care for patients. View Program Requirements For more information, visit: http://www.nursing.upenn.edu/nursing-and-health-services-management-minor/. Nutrition School of Arts & Sciences/School of Nursing Jointly sponsored by the Schools of Nursing and Arts and Sciences, the Nutrition Minor presents a broad view of the field, and illustrates the pervasiveness of nutrition-related issues in such diverse fields as anthropology, economics, folklore, history, physiology, psychology, health care, and public policy. View Program Requirements For more information, visit: http://www.nursing.upenn.edu/nutrition-minor/. Sustainability and Environmental Management School of Arts & Sciences/School of Engineering & Applied Science/The Wharton School The Sustainability and Environmental Management Minor is focused on sustainability and designed to help students understand the nature of environmental constraints that face organizations and individuals in the modern world, and to understand how these constraints can be effectively considered as part of the decision-making process in for-profit and non-profit organizations. View Program Requirements For more information, visit: https://www.sas.upenn.edu/earth/minors/sustainability-and-environmental-management-minor. Urban Education School of Arts & Sciences/Graduate School of Education The crisis in American education continues to confound major sectors of American life. National attention has engaged various constituencies - non-profit business organizations; local, state and federal governments; teachers' unions; and universities - in trying to understand and improve public education. At Penn, students and faculty have become deeply involved in local schools through community service, research, teaching, and coursework. In response to student interest in community and education issues, the College of Arts and Sciences and the Graduate School of Education sponsor an interdisciplinary minor in Urban Education. This seven-course undergraduate minor offers students a unique opportunity to bridge learning between the classroom and community, and it features: Academically-based community service in local schools Deeper understanding of the complex factors affecting urban education Field-based research in an area of interest Hands-on opportunity to investigate a career in education Credit toward Pennsylvania teacher certification requirements This minor is open to undergraduates in all disciplines. Students choose from among three concentrations depending on interest in pursuing teaching certification or deepening one's background in urban education policy: Elementary Education; Secondary Education; Urban Education Policy, Research, and Practice. View Program Requirements For more information, visit: http://www.sas.upenn.edu/urban/students/urban-education-minor. Urban Real Estate and Development School of Arts & Sciences/The Wharton School This minor, co-sponsored by Real Estate (Wharton) and Urban Studies (Arts and Sciences), is designed to enable students to combine an interest in Urban Studies and Real Estate Development. Students take a total of seven Urban Studies and Real Estate courses, in consultation with the minor advisor. View Program Requirements For more information, visit: http://www.sas.upenn.edu/urban/students/real-estate-development-minor. Offices & Services Calendar Careers Contact Us Maps Parking Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 898-5000 Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Cancel