Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL) Minor Select a section... Overview Requirements Contact Information Taylor Anne Barriuso Linguistics Advisor ling.las.iastate.edu/ barriuso@iastate.edu 515-294-0853 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Teaching English as a Second Language The Minor in TESL prepares students to teach English to nonnative speakers of English, either in community programs in the United States or in overseas locations. The Minor provides understanding of how languages work (ENGL/LING 219) and practical and theoretical applications in how English is taught to those who do not speak English natively (ENGL/LING 322, ENGL/LING 324, ENGL/LING 325, and ENGL/LING 425). The TESL Minor prepares students to cross cultural boundaries to learn about, interact with, and assist speakers of other languages in learning English, the leading global language today. A TESL Minor will help students become global citizens through interacting with and teaching those from around the world who come to the United States and by giving students skills that will allow them to live and work in other countries. All classes listed are requirements for the Minor in TESL (15 credits). A C or better is required in each course used to satisfy the minor. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Contact Taylor Anne Barriuso barriuso@iastate.edu for more information. ENGL 219 Introduction to Linguistics 3 LING 322 Language and Society 3 LING 324 Introduction to Teaching ESL Literacy 3 LING 325 Teaching Methods for ESL Learners: Oral Communication Skills 3 ENGL 425 Second Language Learning and Teaching 3 Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.