Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Electrical Engineering, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, to qualify for admission with conditionally classified standing, applicants must meet the following departmental requirements: Minimum GPA of 2.5 for applicants graduated from domestic (U.S.) institutions with undergraduate degrees in engineering or computer science Minimum GPA of 2.5 for applicants graduated from ABET-accredited international institutions with undergraduate degrees in engineering or computer science Minimum GPA of 3.0 for applicants graduated from domestic (U.S.) institutions with undergraduate degrees other than engineering or computer science Minimum GPA of 3.0 for applicants with undergraduate degrees from non-ABET accredited international institutions Students with grade deficiencies, degrees from non-ABET accredited universities or undergraduate majors other than Electrical Engineering may be considered for conditional admission. However, any deficiencies must be made up prior to advancing to classified standing and prior to beginning coursework for the master’s degree. Requirements for fulfilling deficiencies include a minimum of six units of adviser-approved coursework. Deficiencies must be completed with minimum GPA of 3.0. Each applicant file will be reviewed by the department graduate admissions adviser. Upon admission, the applicant is required to make an appointment with the graduate program coordinator. The program coordinator will assign a faculty adviser based on the student’s areas of interest and career objectives. Classified Standing A student who meets the above requirements for admission to conditionally classified standing may be granted classified standing contingent upon: completion of all required deficiency courses with a 3.0 GPA or better; fulfillment of the university writing requirement. Students with degrees from American universities must show proof of meeting an upper-division writing requirement, pass the EWP, or complete ENGL 301 or ENGL 360 . Students who have degrees from foreign universities must pass the Examination in Writing Proficiency (EWP) or complete ENGL 301 or ENGL 360 with a grade of “C” (2.0) or better. Also refer to the Admission Requirements section of this catalog for additional international student requirements; and development and approval of a study plan prior to completing nine units toward the 30-unit degree requirement. Students must meet with a faculty adviser to set up a study plan. Classification is not granted until the study plan is approved by the faculty adviser, the department chair, and the Office of Graduate Studies. Any subsequent changes to the study plan must have prior written approval by the faculty adviser and department chair. Study Plan The study plan consists of adviser-approved upper-division and graduate-level coursework that must be completed with an overall grade-point average of 3.0 or better. At least half the units required for the degree must be approved graduate (500-level) courses. Each course must be passed with a minimum grade of “C” (2.0). Required Mathematics Courses (6 units) EGGN 403 - Computer Methods in Numerical Analysis (3) EGEE 580 - Analysis of Random Signals (3) Note: If one of the above courses has been completed, EGEE 518 will satisfy the requirement Concentration Courses (15 units) A student is required to select a minimum of 15 units in Electrical Engineering. These units may be 400- and 500-level courses and are selected according to the student’s area of interest. Coursework may focus on the following areas: Communications Systems/Signal Processing, Computer Engineering, Control Systems, Microelectronics and Circuit Theory, and Systems Engineering. Graduate Project, EGEE 597 (1-3), and Thesis, EGEE 598 (1-6), are considered concentration courses. Other Courses (9 units) Elective units should be taken in Electrical Engineering or a related engineering field and are subject to adviser approval. Culminating Experience Subject to approval by the faculty adviser, students may select one of the following options for final review by the department graduate committee: satisfactory completion of a final written comprehensive examination on coursework; OR satisfactory completion of a formal project EGEE 597 (3 units) and a final oral comprehensive examination on coursework; OR satisfactory completion and oral defense of a thesis EGEE 598 (3-6 units). Guidelines for the preparation of theses and formal reports are available in the Electrical Engineering Department office and the university Graduate Studies office. Students requesting Graduate Project (EGEE 597 ), Thesis (EGEE 598 ) or Independent Study (EGEE 599 ) must complete a study application form and submit it for approval to the supervising faculty member and department chair prior to the semester in which the coursework is to begin. Advancement to Candidacy Advancement to candidacy requires that students file a graduation check prior to the beginning of the final semester (see class schedule for deadlines). Completion of requirements for the degree include a minimum GPA of 3.0 on all study plan coursework, successful completion of a comprehensive examination or oral defense of a thesis or project, and recommendation by the Electrical Engineering Department and Office of Graduate Studies. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).