Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Geology, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) The Master of Science in Geology is based on the assumption that every geologist must have a thorough knowledge of fundamental geologic principles and that this knowledge must be rooted in field- and laboratory-based experiences. Admission Requirements Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, acceptance into this program in a classified standing is contingent upon the following: Bachelor’s degree in geology from an accredited institution, with an expected grade-point average of 3.0 in geology courses, which normally includes the equivalent to core courses of the Cal State Fullerton Geology B.S. program and a 2.5 grade-point-average in related science and mathematics courses; or, in the case of a bachelor’s degree in a related area, a selection of science courses deemed as adequate preparation for further study in geology by the Department Graduate Committee Satisfactory performance on the Graduate Record Examination Aptitude Test with an expected score in the 50th percentile or better on the verbal and quantitative tests Three letters of recommendation Completion of the departmental application Availability of faculty and resources in the student’s stated area of interest Students with limited subject or grade deficiencies may be considered for conditional acceptance into the program if they meet all other departmental and university requirements. Conditionally classified graduate standing may be removed upon completion of adviser- and graduate-committee-approved postgraduate courses in geology, mathematics, chemistry or physics, with grades of “B” (3.0) or better. Students with a degree in a related field and/or substantial subject deficiencies are encouraged to apply. Such applicants may be considered for conditional acceptance if they meet all other departmental and university requirements. Such a student may later qualify for classified standing by completing all courses recommended by the Department Graduate Committee and by maintaining a 3.0 grade-point average in geology and in related science and mathematics courses. Application Deadlines Materials and deadlines for department and university applications are available on the Geological Sciences website: geology.fullerton.edu/. Classified Standing Students should achieve classified graduate standing as soon as they are eligible, since no more than nine units of graduate work taken before classification can be included on the study plan for the degree (see below). Students may apply for classified standing when they: (1) have met all university and departmental admission requirements; and (2) have filed a study plan approved by the adviser, the Department Graduate Committee and the Associate Vice President for Academic Programs. Advancement to Candidacy Advancement to candidacy is attained by applying for graduation and receiving a recommendation by the Department Graduate Committee. Study Plan A study plan must be approved by the Graduate Adviser. At least 21 units must be at the graduate level; a maximum of nine units may be 400 level. A minimum grade point average for courses satisfying the study plan is 3.0. Required Courses (9-12 units) GEOL 500 - Advanced Geological Concepts and Methods (4) GEOL 590 - Geoscience Seminar (1) must be taken twice for one unit each time GEOL 598 - Thesis (1-3) must take a total of at least three, but no more than six units Note: a public, oral defense of the thesis is required Focus and Breadth Courses (18-21 units) Focus Geology Courses: Graduate adviser-approved 400- or 500-level geology courses. A maximum of three units of GEOL 599 and a maximum of three units of GEOL 593 may be taken. Course selection will be dependent on the student’s academic objectives and selected in consultation with the student’s thesis adviser. Breadth Courses in Related Fields: A maximum of six units of graduate adviser-approved 400- or 500-level breadth courses offered by departments other than Geological Sciences. Courses may be taken from departments or programs such as, but not restricted to, Biological Sciences, Chemistry and Biochemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Geography, Civil and Environmental Engineering, or Environmental Studies. Course selection will be dependent on the student’s academic objectives and selected in consultation with the student’s thesis adviser. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).