Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Communication Studies, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) The Master of Arts in Communication Studies is designed to give students broad exposure to theory and research and, at the same time, allow them to specialize in one area (i.e., argumentation and persuasion, interpersonal communication, intercultural communication, organization communication, or rhetorical studies). The objectives of the degree include improving the student’s academic and professional competence, preparing the student for advanced graduate work toward the doctoral degree, developing the student’s research capabilities, increasing student’s knowledge in the area of specialization, and for the student planning a teaching career, providing the opportunity to develop teaching skills. The student is expected to demonstrate a high degree of intellectual competence and scholarly discipline, to evaluate messages critically and to demonstrate mastery of the field of specialization. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. Applicants for Communication Studies are required to have a baccalaureate in communication studies or an allied field or complete nine units of approved background studies in communication studies. In addition, the following factors will be taken into consideration by the Graduate Committee in determining who shall be admitted to the program: Grade-point average Letters of recommendation (preferably on department forms) Professional objectives as presented in a student letter of intent Graduate Standing - Classified A student who meets the requirements for conditionally classified graduate standing, as well as the following requirements, may be granted classified graduate standing upon the development of an approved study plan: Enrolling in HCOM 500 within the first nine unts of graduate work included on the study plan Completing the study plan with 30 units of studies approved by an adviser and the department Graduate Committee Graduate Study Plan Requirements for the M.A. Degree in Communication Studies consist of a minimum of 30 units of 400- and 500-level courses approved by the Department Graduate Committee. These are: Courses totaling 15 units: HCOM 500 - Research in Speech Communication (3) taken in the first nine units of GSP coursework HCOM 536 - Seminar in Communication and Rhetorical Theory (3) Three additional 500-level seminars Completion of 30 units of coursework: Completion of 30 units of coursework and passing a comprehensive examination, or completion of 27 units of coursework and writing a project (HCOM 597 ) for three units, or completion of 24 units of coursework and writing a thesis (HCOM 598) for six units Additional Information For further information, consult the Department of Human Communication Studies. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).