Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search International Agriculture Select a section... Overview Secondary Major Requirements Undergraduate Minor Contact Information Dr. Ebby Luvaga 174A Heady Hall ageds.iastate.edu/undergraduate/international-agriculture-interdisciplinary-undergraduate-program luvaga@iastate.edu 515-294-5765 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Agriculture and Life Sciences > International Agriculture Interdepartmental Undergraduate Program The international agriculture program provides opportunities to develop knowledge and skills related to the factors that interact to impact agricultural and environmental issues, production, processes, distribution and utilization worldwide. The program puts emphasis on international experience through structured internships and study abroad. The international agriculture program is appropriate for students seeking positions that require knowledge and experience related to global agricultural issues and their impact on local, regional, national and international policies and practices. Students preparing for careers in the following areas will benefit from the international agriculture program; governmental and non-governmental development agencies, agribusinesses, educational institutions, and non-profit assistance agencies. Outcomes from participation in this program include developing an awareness for the role of international agriculture in the career development process, analyzing international agricultural issues and policies, acquiring skills for solving problems in international development and agribusiness and experiencing real situations and gaining perspectives about agriculture in a global setting. International Agriculture as Secondary Major International agriculture is an undergraduate secondary major that may be taken only in conjunction with a primary major in an agriculture and life sciences curriculum. Students choosing international agriculture will strengthen their career placement with a business or agency involved in international activities. Technical knowledge of a primary major discipline will be strengthened by a global awareness of agriculture and life sciences. A secondary major in international agriculture will give students practical insight into the role of agriculture in a world of increasing food and fiber needs. It is ideal for those who wish to broaden their international perspective or prepare for international work in agriculture. The secondary major includes an emphasis on international internship or study abroad and/or foreign languages, and selection of appropriate courses (from an approved list) to meet the needs and interests of the student. Courses for the secondary major include AGRON 342 World Food Issues: Past and Present; six credits of study abroad, travel, or language courses or any combination thereof; and six credits in selected international agriculture courses in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Fifteen credits of the secondary major cannot be used to meet requirements of the major or any other college or university requirement. Students interested in earning a secondary major in international agriculture must contact a program advisor. The early indication of an interest in international agriculture allows for effective integration of the secondary major course requirements with those of the primary major. Curriculum in International Agriculture Administered by an Interdepartmental Committee. International agriculture can be taken only as a secondary major in conjunction with a primary major in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. A minor is available to interested students regardless of their major. 15 cr. of this major cannot be used to meet requirements of the primary major or any other college or university requirements. 6 cr. from Internship in International Agriculture or Study Abroad or World Languages and Cultures; AGRON 342 World Food Issues: Past and Present; credits from approved International Agriculture Courses to total 15 cr. Minor A minor in international agriculture is available to interested students regardless of their major. Students selecting the minor should have at least minimal familiarity with agriculture and life sciences and agricultural systems. Courses for the minor include AGRON 342 World Food Issues: Past and Present; 3 to 6 credits of study abroad and/or foreign language and 3 to 6 credits in selected international agriculture courses in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. The minor requires 15 credits and must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. For more information about a secondary major or minor in international agriculture, see descriptions in the designated departments or the supervisory committee. For more information about courses for either a secondary major or a minor in international agriculture, see descriptions in the designated departments. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.