Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Oregon State University Toggle search Toggle menu Academic Catalog Search Catalog Search Exit Search Schedule of Classes Courses Academic Calendar Colleges Programs Academic Regulations Catalog Rights Policy Print Options Home/ Grades, Regulations & Records Grades, Regulations & Records On This Page Catalog Rights Policy Grading System Grade Points Academic Standing Attendance Other Limitations Student Conduct Regulations Student Grades Student Records Progress Standards for Veteran Students Options for Exemption from Nonresident Tuition Military and Veteran Resources Advisor School Certifying Official (SCO) Military Tuition Assistance Program Veteran and U.S. Military Service Recognition Cord Undergraduate Planned Educational Leave Program Unauthorized Peer-to-Peer (P2P) File Sharing and Other Copyright Infringement Catalog Rights Policy Graduation Requirements/Catalog Policy When determining the graduation requirements for a given student: Students must meet all applicable degree requirements from the published catalog(s). The student’s catalog year for institutional and baccalaureate core requirements is established by their first term of attendance (matriculation date) at Oregon State University as an admitted student. The student’s catalog year for college/major/option/minor requirements is based on the date of declaration of the major/option/minor; consequently, a student’s first (primary) major/option must be in the same catalog year. If a primary option is declared in a subsequent academic year, the primary option will be aligned with the catalog year of the primary major. If the primary option did not exist in the catalog year of the primary major, the primary major will roll forward to the catalog year of the primary option. Additionally, while the student’s first major/option must be in the same catalog year, any additional declarations of majors/options/minors will be determined by the declaration dates (and corresponding catalog years) established by the change of academic program process. A student, in collaboration with an advisor, can also choose to graduate under a subsequent (to their most recent major declaration date) catalog year within the same major/option. At the time of graduation, all students, including transfer students, must use a catalog that is not more than ten years old. Students may petition to the head advisor of their college for an extension of a catalog greater than ten years prior to their expected graduation term. Current policy requires a student to reapply after not enrolling at OSU for four consecutive terms (not including summer terms); the published catalog for the resulting readmission/matriculation date will become the catalog of record for graduation requirements. The Planned Educational Leave Program defined in AR 13.c beginning with 2011–2012 academic year, provides a mechanism for a student to sustain their original catalog of record during a planned absence. For Degree Partnership Program students, the first term the student is admitted to OSU will be the matriculation date and will determine the catalog year for institutional and baccalaureate core requirements. The catalog year for college/major/option/minor requirements will be the same as all other OSU students. Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of information in the OSU Academic Catalog. However, Oregon State University may find it necessary from time to time to make changes in courses, curricula, or degree requirements. Students already admitted to a program in which such changes have been made will be reasonably accommodated, if feasible, to ensure their normal progress toward a degree. A student may, however, still be required to conform to changes in courses, curricula, or degree requirements as deemed necessary by Oregon State University. Additionally, the schedule of classes or catalog may change to reflect course modality, location, instructor or other changes based on current need and may do so at any time. Grading System Grades The grading system consists of: A = Exceptional, 4.0 grade points per credit. A– = 3.7 grade points per credit. B+ = 3.3 grade points per credit. B = Superior, 3.0 grade points per credit. B– = 2.7 grade points per credit. C+ = 2.3 grade points per credit. C = Average, 2.0 grade points per credit. C– = 1.7 grade points per credit. D+ = 1.3 grade points per credit. D = Inferior, 1.0 grade point per credit. D– = 0.7 grade point per credit. F = Failure, 0.0 grade point per credit. G = Reserved for Graduate Credit, no grade point per credit. I = Incomplete, no grade points or credits. I/Alt Grade = Incomplete, no grade points or credits. If not resolved after 12 months or degree conferral, the "I" reverts to the alternate grade. N = No credit, no grade points or credits. NG = No basis for a grade, no credit or grade points. P = Pass, credit given, no grade points. R = Thesis in Progress, credit given, no grade points. S = Satisfactory, credit given, no grade points. TR = Accepted Transfer Credit. U = Unsatisfactory, no credit or grade points. W = Withdrawal (passing), no credit or grade points. WC = Complete withdrawal, no credit or grade points. AUD = Audit, no credit or grade points. WAU = Withdrawal from Audit, no credit or grade points. When a requirement of a course has not been completed for reasons acceptable to the instructor and the rest of the academic work is passing, a report of I (incomplete) may be made and additional time granted. The I is only granted at the discretion of the instructor. The instructor must submit the grade the student will earn if the missing work is not completed. That alternate grade will become the default grade if the missing work is not completed. The instructor documents the deficiency and the deadline for completing the missing work. A record of the deficiency shall be kept on file in the unit or department office. The allotted time awarded shall not exceed one calendar year except by petition1 or the time of the degree conferral, whichever comes first. To remove the I grade, the student must complete the deficiency within the allotted time and the instructor will then submit the appropriate grade. If the student fails to complete the work within the allotted time, the Office of the Registrar will automatically change the I grade on the student's record to the alternate grade submitted by the instructor at the time the I was given. The alternate grade will be included in the grade-point average. Under no circumstances shall a student who earns an A–F grade or an N or U grade have their grade changed retroactively to an I grade. An instructor may move to correct a grade by filing a Change of Grade in the Registrar’s Office. Grade changes for students of a permanently separated instructor will be managed by the department chair of the course involved. Upon permanent separation from the University an instructor’s change of grade will not be accepted by the Office of the Registrar. The Office of the Registrar will routinely review grade changes. Students may withdraw from a course. In such cases, a grade of W is assigned. A student who discontinues attendance in a course without official withdrawal receives a grade of F in the course. 1 A student may petition via the Office of the Registrar for an extension of the one calendar year deadline with the concurrence of the faculty. An approved petition will grant an extension of a single additional term, with a maximum of three total extensions being possible. An approved petition for an extension of time to remove an incomplete will be voided at the time of degree conferral. Grade Points Grade points are computed on the basis of 4 points for each credit of A grade, 3.70 for each credit of A– grade, 3.30 for each credit of B+ grade, 3.00 for each credit of B grade, 2.70 for each credit of B– grade, 2.30 for each credit of C+ grade, 2.00 for each credit of C grade, 1.70 for each credit of C– grade, 1.30 for each credit of D+ grade, 1.00 for each credit of D grade, .70 for each credit of D– grade, and 0 for each credit of F. Marks of I/Alt, W, WC, P, N, NG, R, S, and U are disregarded in the computation of points. The grade-point average (GPA) is the quotient of total points divided by total credits; total credits are the number of term credits in which grades A, B, C, D, and F are received. Academic Standing Satisfactory Academic Standing (Undergraduate Students) (AR 22) Oregon State University expects students to maintain satisfactory academic progress toward degree completion. At the conclusion of each term, grade-point averages are calculated and academic standings determined for students seeking a baccalaureate degree according to the criteria outlined below. Students whose standings evidence a lack of satisfactory progress will be warned of this condition and advised to seek help from their academic advisors. Any student who is not on Academic Warning, Academic Probation, or Academic Suspension is in good standing. Academic Warning: Students with a term GPA below 2.0 will be placed on Academic Warning. Academic Probation: Students who have attempted1 24 or more credits at OSU and have an OSU cumulative GPA below 2.0 will be placed on Academic Probation. Students who attain a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or better are removed from Academic Probation. Academic Suspension: Students who are on Academic Probation and have a subsequent term GPA below 2.0 will be placed on Academic Suspension. Academic Suspension is recorded on the student’s academic record. Students who are academically suspended are denied all the privileges of the institution and of all organizations in any way connected to it, including any university-recognized living group. Reinstatement to the University: Suspended students will be considered for reinstatement to the university after two years or completion of a minimum of 24 quarter credits of transferable college-level work at an accredited college or university, with a GPA of 2.5 or above. The Faculty Senate Academic Standing Committee is responsible for enforcement of the above regulations on Satisfactory Academic Standing. Additionally, this committee has discretionary authority to grant exceptions and to develop guidelines for administering these regulations. 1 An attempt comprises a final grade in a course where the grade is: A, A–, B+, B, B–, C+, C, C–, D+, D, D–, F, S, U, P, NP, I/Alternate Grade (where the Alternate Grade is one of these grades), W. Attendance An instructor has the privilege of considering class participation in arriving at a student's grade, but it is not intended that attendance in and of itself normally be a factor in measuring a student's academic accomplishment in a course. Other Limitations Academic performance is not the sole criterion for admission to and continuation in certain courses and programs at the university, such as practicum courses and internships. The university may find it necessary to evaluate a person's background to determine their likelihood of maintaining standards of professional conduct that are necessary in the academic discipline or profession. An evaluation may take into consideration current performance, as well as past experiences and actions that could affect a student's ability to perform in the particular course or program. Student Conduct Regulations Oregon State University aspires to stimulate a lasting attitude of civility, social responsibility and openness in our students as well as an appreciation for our values of accountability, diversity, respect, and truth. Consistent with that, all students enrolled at OSU are expected to follow student conduct regulations and university policies that have been developed to govern the behavior of students as well as members of the university community. These regulations and policies are formulated to guarantee each student's freedom to learn and to protect the fundamental rights of others. The assumption upon which these regulations are based is that all people must treat others with dignity and respect in order for scholarship to thrive. The regulations and procedures for disciplinary action and appeal are available on the OSU website. Violations of the regulations subject a student to appropriate disciplinary or judicial action. These regulations have been formulated by the Student Conduct Committee, the Student Activities Committee, the university administration, and the State Board of Higher Education. Student Grades Student grades may be obtained via MyOregonState: Select Student, then Student Grades. Or obtain an unofficial transcript under Academic Profile, and click on Transcript. Grades are not automatically mailed to the student. You may request a transcript online at no charge. Grades, GPA calculations, and academic standings are not complete and final prior to 8 a.m. on the Wednesday following the final exam week. Grades and GPAs appearing prior to that day may be incomplete. Student Records Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, (20 U.S.C. 1232g) provides that Oregon State University students have the right to inspect and review the student’s education records within 45 days of the day the university receives a request for access; the right to request the amendment of the student’s education record that the student believes are inaccurate or misleading; the right to consent to disclosures of the personally identifiable information contained in the student’s educational record, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent; and the right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by Oregon State University to comply with the requirements of FERPA. The Student Records Policy is available in the OSU Academic Catalog. Progress Standards for Veteran Students Programs at Oregon State University are approved for the use of VA benefits under the Montgomery GI Bill®, Dependents Educational Assistance, and Title 38 and Title 10 of the US Code, or benefits offered by the State of Oregon Department of Veteran Affairs. The university, through the Registrar’s Office, provides the certifying service to qualified students. The certifying official issues enrollment certification documents to the appropriate VA regional office and monitors students’ satisfactory progress for the VA. Any student receiving GI Bill® education benefits while attending Oregon State University is required to obtain transcripts from all previously attended schools and submit them to the school for review of prior credit. OSU students who receive benefits from the Veterans Benefits Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs are subject to the satisfactory progress standards as set forth in Chapter 38, U.S. Code sections 1674, 1724, 1775, and 1776, and to those defined by the university in Academic Regulation 22, Satisfactory Academic Standing: Oregon State University expects students to maintain satisfactory academic progress toward degree completion. At the conclusion of each term, grade-point averages are calculated and academic standings determined for students seeking a baccalaureate degree according to the criteria outlined below. Students whose standings evidence a lack of satisfactory progress will be warned of this condition and advised to seek help from their academic advisors. Any student who is not on Academic Warning, Academic Probation, or Academic Suspension is in good standing. Academic Warning: Students with a term GPA below 2.0 will be placed on Academic Warning. Academic Probation: Students who have attempted1 24 or more credits at OSU and have an OSU cumulative GPA below 2.0 will be placed on Academic Probation. Students who attain a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or better are removed from Academic Probation. Academic Suspension: Students who are on Academic Probation and have a subsequent term GPA below 2.0 will be placed on Academic Suspension. Academic Suspension is recorded on the student’s academic record. Students who are academically suspended are denied all the privileges of the institution and of all organizations in any way connected to it, including any university-recognized living group. Reinstatement to the University: Suspended students will be considered for reinstatement to the university after two years or completion of a minimum of 24 quarter credits of transferable college-level work at an accredited college or university, with a GPA of 2.5 or above. Students, who are placed on probation by the university, also will be notified that they are on probation insofar as Veterans Affairs’ progress standards are concerned. If a student’s deficiency is not corrected and they subsequently are placed on academic suspension, the university will notify Veterans Affairs of their unsatisfactory progress. The university will recertify students who are suspended by the university and subsequently reinstated by the Academic Standing Committee. Students dismissed from the university for unsatisfactory conduct will be reported as making unsatisfactory progress. The university will recertify the student only upon rescission of the dismissal by the university. ® GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website Options for Exemption from Nonresident Tuition HB 2158 (2013) and HB 4021 (2014) section 1. ORS 352.375 A public university listed in ORS 352.002 or community college shall charge an enrolled student who is not a resident of this state, and who is attending classes as an undergraduate or graduate at a public university or community college campus in this state, tuition and fees no greater than the resident rate if the student: Served in the armed forces of the United States; and Was relieved or discharged from that service with either an honorable discharge or a general discharge under honorable conditions; and Undergraduate student newly enrolled after September 15, 2013, or graduate student newly enrolled after September 15, 2014, and Provides proof that the student has established a physical presence in Oregon within 12 months of being enrolled at the public university or community college. Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act (VACAA) of 2014 (38 U.S.C. 3679(c)) Section 702 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 [effective July 1, 2015] as codified in 38 U.S.C. 3679(c). In 2016 Congress passed Public Law 114-315 [effective July 1, 2017], which modifies 38 U.S.C. 3679(c).); in 2018 Congress passed Public Law 115-251, which amended title 38 of the United States Code (U.S.C.) 3679(c). Students eligible for in-state tuition under Section 702 (“Choice Act”) include: A Veteran who lives in the state in which the institution of higher learning is located (regardless of their formal state of residence) and enrolls in the school within three years of discharge from a period of active duty service of 90 days or more. A spouse or child using transferred benefits who lives in the state in which the institution of higher learning is located (regardless of their formal state of residence) and enrolls in the school within 3 years of the transferor’s discharge from a period of active duty service of 90 days or more. A spouse or child using benefits under the Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry Scholarship who lives in the state in which the institution of higher learning is located (regardless of their formal state of residence) and enrolls in the institution within three years of the servicemember’s death in the line of duty following a period of active duty service of 90 days or more. Anyone using transferred Post-9/11 GI Bill® benefits (38 U.S.C. § 3319) who lives in the state in which the institution of higher learning is located (regardless of their formal state of residence) and the transferor is a member of the uniformed service who is serving on active duty. Anyone using Vocational Rehabilitation benefits (38 U.S.C. § 3102) who lives in the state in which the institution of higher learning is located (regardless of their formal state of residence). Choice Act eligible students will continue to receive in-state tuition rates after they have used all of their GI Bill® benefits or Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry Scholarship benefits as long as the student remains continuously enrolled. If there is a break in enrollment, or if the student changes their program of study after exhausting their VA educational benefits, they will no longer receive in-state tuition rates. Veterans who do not qualify under the Choice Act will likely qualify under HB 2158 (2013) and HB 4021 (2014) section 1. ORS 352.375 or HB 2787 (see above). If you are a Veteran and need to apply for residency, you may need to complete a Residency Affidavit or the Exemption from Nonresident Tuition Veteran Form depending on your circumstances. Another helpful resource when applying for residency are the Instructions for Completing Residence Information Affidavit. ® GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website Military and Veteran Resources Advisor William Elfering, MVRA Office of Student Life Phone: 541-737-7662 Email: william.elfering@oregonstate.edu Website: veterans.oregonstate.edu The Military and Veteran Resources Advisor (MVRA) advocates for student-veterans to receive targeted support in navigating campus resources and pursuing academic goals and advises about internal and external support programs. The MVRA collaborates with School Certifying Officials to counsel students and parents concerning eligibility and benefits available under various programs at the local, state, regional, and federal level. The MVRA maintains an informative Military and Veteran Resources website and corresponds with prospective, currently enrolled, and alumni student-veterans to provide them with the latest news on benefits, processes, and procedures from the Veterans Administration. School Certifying Official (SCO) The School Certifying Official (SCO) certifies the enrollment of veterans and eligible dependents at Oregon State University. All veterans and eligible dependents, whether new, returning, or transfer students, who expect to receive educational benefits from the Veterans Administration must notify the SCO in the Registrar’s Office. For questions about benefits, contact veterans@oregonstate.edu. The School Certifying Official also monitors and reports to the Veterans Administration the Satisfactory Progress Standards for students who are receiving VA education benefits. See Progress Standards for Veteran Students for more information. Military Tuition Assistance Program The School Certifying Officials (SCO) at Oregon State University are the direct contact points for students using the Military Tuition Assistance Program. SCOs process students' tuition assistance authorizations and contracts and forward copies to OSU Business Affairs for billing the military branches. Depending on the branch of the military, requirements vary on how grades are reported. Grade reporting is done at the end of each academic term. For questions about the Military Tuition Assistance Program, contact veterans@oregonstate.edu. Veteran and U.S. Military Service Recognition Cord Recognition of U.S. Military Service Oregon State University recognizes the significant contribution and sacrifices made by OSU students who are U.S. military servicemembers and veterans. Students may receive red, white, and blue Military Service Recognition Cords to be worn at commencement. Servicemembers and veterans may visit the Office of the Registrar in Kerr Administration Building during the month prior to commencement to request cords. Undergraduate Planned Educational Leave Program Students may find that a planned interruption or pause in their regular, full-time education is needed. PELP is designed to enhance the prospect of successful completion of an academic program by allowing a student to arrange a voluntary absence that temporarily suspends their academic work for a period of time. For detailed information please refer to Academic Regulation 13. Unauthorized Peer-to-Peer (P2P) File Sharing and Other Copyright Infringement The university takes copyright infringement seriously. As set forth in the Acceptable Use of University Computing Resources Policy, all students must abide by federal and state copyright laws when using university computing or network resources. The unauthorized publishing or use of copyrighted material on the university computer network is strictly prohibited and users are personally liable for the consequences of such unauthorized use. This specifically applies to Peer-to-Peer or P2P file-sharing of copyrighted music and movies. Students should be aware that by engaging in unauthorized sharing of copyrighted material, they not only violate university policy, but they may also be held criminally and civilly liable by federal and/or state authorities. Under current copyright law, criminal cases of copyright violation carry a penalty of up to five (5) years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Civil penalties for copyright infringement include a minimum fine of $750 for each work. Oregon State University will subject students who violate this policy to discipline as appropriate. For a first-time violation of this copyright policy, students are required to pass a copyright quiz within 72 hours or else their network access is disabled. Repeated infringement is subject to disciplinary action by the office of Student Conduct and Community Standards, up to and including expulsion from the university. The entire policy regarding Unauthorized Peer-to-Peer (P2P) File Sharing and Other Copyright Infringement is available online. 2021-2022 Catalog Academic Advising Academic Regulations Administration & Accreditation Admission to Oregon State University Archives Colleges, Schools, Departments & Programs Course Descriptions Course Subject Area Contacts Earning a Degree Ecampus Faculty A-Z Financial Aid & Scholarships Glossary & Catalog Definitions Grades, Regulations & Records Student Records-Right to Privacy How to Read the Schedule of Classes Information Services, Computers & Academic Technologies INTO OSU Museums, Galleries & Collections OSU Office of Global Opportunities (OSU GO) Programs Research Search Classes Tuition, Fees & Payment Tutoring & Student Support Services Published by the Office of the Registrar Oregon State University B102 Kerr Administration Building Corvallis, OR 97331-2130 Phone: 541-737-4331 Email: catalog@oregonstate.edu Copyright © 2021-2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of the entire Bulletin All pages in Academic Catalog. Cancel