Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in College of Human Sciences Select a section... Overview Accreditation and Licensure Undergraduate Core Curriculum Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate Programs Certificates Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Human Sciences Laura Jolly, Dean, Dean's Chair Jennifer Margrett, Associate Dean Research and Graduate Education Robert D. Reason, Associate Dean Undergraduate Academic Affairs Debra Sellers, Associate Dean and Director of Human Sciences Extension and Outreach www.hs.iastate.edu/ The College of Human Sciences (CHS) provides an integrative approach to improving the quality of life for individuals, families, schools and communities by linking discovery, science, creativity, and practice; applying the knowledge of learning in all endeavors; and developing leaders for roles in research, education, business and industry, and health and human services. The College of Human Sciences, founded in 2005, fosters innovative synergies in teaching and learning in addition to the discovery of new knowledge. Members of the college work to enhance human potential in many ways, and strive to improve the quality of people’s lives - helping them learn better, live longer, and lead lives that are more productive and fulfilling. Departments/School Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management Food Science and Human Nutrition Human Development and Family Studies Kinesiology School of Education Recommended High School Preparation Recommended preparation for students entering most departments in the College of Human Sciences should include 4 years of English (including speech) with emphasis in composition and communication skills; 3 years each of mathematics and natural sciences, and at least 2 years of social sciences and/or humanities. In addition, students interested in Elementary Education are advised to complete two or more years of high school study in one foreign language. Information for Prospective Students Each student in the College of Human Sciences works closely with an academic advisor who is associated with the program in which the student is majoring. Advisors assist students in developing academic programs and in adjusting to university life. They also provide information and guidance about career choices. Advisors attempt to assist students as they develop their schedule of classes to meet their goals, interests, and capabilities. The college offers a number of orientation sessions during the summer for students planning to enter in the fall. Students who enter in spring or summer terms are also offered orientation sessions which are held prior to the beginning of the student's first term. Incoming students are encouraged to attend an orientation session so that academic assessments can be made and appropriate classes may be scheduled for the following term. Undecided Students The College of Human Sciences offers an academic support program for students who are considering several majors in CHS. This program is administered to undecided Human Sciences students through the MINDS Learning Community. Students in the MINDS Learning Community take coursework together, including an orientation and career exploration course which is taught by college advisors. This course provides opportunities for students to evaluate their interests, skills, and strengths while also receiving additional support through a peer mentor program. All undecided majors in the College of Human Sciences are required to participate in MINDS Learning Community and will sign up for the program during orientation. For more information, visit the MINDS webpage: https://hs.iastate.edu/learning-community/minds/. Planned Transfer Programs By planning carefully, students may begin their education at another college and then transfer their courses to a curriculum within the College of Human Sciences with maximum efficiency in meeting the degree requirements. The college works closely with community colleges in Iowa and surrounding states to facilitate a transfer to Iowa State University. For more information, call 1-800-522-0683 or visit the College of Human Sciences Recruitment Office. Accreditation and Licensure The following program-specific accreditation/ licensure/registrations have been attained by departments or School of Education within the college: Department of Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management: Apparel, Merchandising, and Design major is endorsed by the American Apparel and Footwear Association's Education Foundation. The Design primary option is accredited by the National Association of Schools in Art and Design. Hospitality Management is accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Programs in Hospitality Administration. Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition: The Food Science degree, including Industry and Technology options are approved by the Institute of Food Technologists. The Didactic Program in Dietetics and Dietetics Internship are accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics, the accrediting agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. The Baccalaureate Degree in Nursing at Iowa State University is pursuing initial accreditation by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE), One Dupont Circle, NW, Suite 530, Washington, DC 20036, (202) 887-6791. Applying for accreditation does not guarantee that accreditation will be granted. The program has interim approval from the Iowa Board of Nursing. Department of Human Development and Family Studies: The Child Development Laboratory School is accredited by the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC), Academy for Early Childhood Programs, is licensed by the Iowa Department of Human Services, and maintains a 5 Star Rating from the Iowa Quality Rating System. The Early Childhood Education Program (administered in collaboration with the School of Education) and the Family and Consumer Sciences Education Teacher Licensure Program are accredited by the Iowa Department of Education and students may be recommended for licensure to the Iowa Board of Educational Examiners. Financial Counseling and Planning (FCP) is a registered education program with the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards and the Association for Financial Counseling and Planning Education. With these registrations FCP students are eligible to sit for the Certified Financial Planner ™ and Accredited Financial Counselor® examinations. Department of Kinesiology: The Athletic Training program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education. The Physical Education Educator Preparation Program is recommended for approval by the Iowa Department of Education and approved by the State of Iowa Board of Education. School of Education - Educator Preparation All Iowa State University Educator Preparation Programs are recommended for approval by the Iowa Department of Education and approved by the State of Iowa Board of Education. Each student will be enrolled in the School or Department in which he or she plans to major and must meet the graduation requirements of that department and the college in which it is located. All candidates must meet the program completion requirements of the Iowa State University Educator Preparation Program in order to be recommended for teacher or educational leadership licensure by Iowa State University. For details about Teacher Education programs, requirements, and endorsement areas, see Teacher Education. For details about Educational Leadership programs and requirements, see Educational Leadership Undergraduate Core Curriculum Purpose The College of Human Sciences has established core learning outcomes to provide the unifying foundation critical to personal and professional success for all College of Human Sciences undergraduate students. Assessment of College of Human Sciences’ core learning outcomes will measure student competence in four (4) areas. Assessment results will be used by CHS faculty and staff to enhance student learning experiences. Four components The core identifies the expected minimum outcomes that each undergraduate in the college must meet: Communication - Communicate with clear purpose, workable organization and effective style in written, oral, visual and electronic (WOVE) formats without distracting errors in usage or convention. Self-Assessment/Self Reflection - Consistently and realistically analyze and evaluate one’s own knowledge, abilities and actions in comparison to professional standards and create action plans to enhance personal and professional efficacy. Critical Thinking - Generate, acquire and evaluate information based on scientific evidence, creative processes, and logical and ethical reasoning to make decisions and solve problems in one’s personal, professional and community endeavors. Social Justice - Articulate and demonstrate a clear concept of a just society in which individuals and groups equitably share in societal benefits within a global community. Expectations for Departments/School of Education/Programs Departments/schools/programs formally participate in outcomes assessment. Programs identify courses at three levels (introductory, intermediate, and advanced) where at least one significant educational activity is identified and assessed. Increased achievement and level of mastery at advanced levels is discussed and incorporated through continuous improvement efforts. General Education Students in the College of Human Sciences are required to complete a program in general education which is integrated in their professional training and extends through the undergraduate curriculum. The general education program emphasizes intellectual growth and personal development as contrasted with specific career preparation. The program aims to stimulate a desire for learning and intellectual endeavor, develop understanding and appreciation for the physical and cultural world, encourage independent thinking and analysis, increase competence in all aspects of communication, and create an understanding of individuals as social, psychological, and physical beings. The student is expected to complete studies in three groups in general education. Areas represented below are not departmental titles. In some cases, courses relating to a given area may be found in several different departments. Credits listed are minimum requirements. Minimum Group Requirements in the College of Human Sciences I. Communication Skills (10 cr.): ENGL 150, ENGL 250; LIB 160; and 3 credits in oral communication II. Biological and physical sciences and mathematical disciplines (9 cr.): at least 3 credits in mathematical disciplines III. Social sciences and humanities (15 cr.): at least 6 credits in social sciences and at least 6 credits in humanities Double Majors Undergraduate students may elect a second major from the departments or school and program areas listed above, or from a major field offered for the bachelor’s degree in another college of the university. Double majors may be prohibited between majors as determined by the appropriate curriculum committees. The major departments must approve the degree program, and if those majors involve two colleges, both deans must approve. Such programs must fulfill the general education requirements of the college of the primary major. If one major leads to the B.A. degree and the other to the B.S. degree, the degree awarded will be the one offered by the department of the primary major. If the primary major may lead to either a B.A. or a B.S., a student may choose to receive either degree. In this case, the student must satisfy the requirements of each major and of the degree that is chosen for the primary major. Students with a primary major in another college who wish to take a second major in the College of Human Sciences are required to meet all requirements for the major, prerequisites and supporting courses. Two Bachelor’s Degrees Any degree offered by the College of Human Sciences may be earned together with a degree in this or any other college of the university. For the requirements for two degrees, see Index, Bachelor's Degree, Two. International Programs The College of Human Sciences encourages students to participate in international programs that will help them to become life-long learners of other cultures and perspectives, to enhance their global citizenship, and to expand their opportunities for employment after graduation. The College offers short-term faculty-led study abroad programs, semester-long programs, international student teaching placements, and dietetic internship rotations. International opportunities change each year, and students should visit http://intl.hs.iastate.edu to review the list of available programs and to explore which offerings are designed for specific majors. The College offers several study abroad scholarships and last year over $73,000 was awarded to support student participation in our international programs. Faculty members also bring diversity and global perspectives to instruction through research and collaborations with scholars and institutions abroad, and the College employs faculty members from many different countries. Honors Program High achieving students, with a grade point average of above 3.50, are invited to apply to the Honors Program. Honors students are encouraged to develop a creative program of study expanding their interests while meeting individual educational objectives. Students in the Honors Program also participate in University Honors Seminars, Honors Courses and collaborate with a faculty member to complete an honors project. For further information, contact the College Honors Committee or academic advisor. See https://hs.iastate.edu/current-students/academics/honors-program/ or look in the Index, under Honors Program. Human Sciences Extension and Outreach Students may prepare for a career in the Cooperative Extension System by enrolling in a curriculum in the College of Human Sciences that provides them with a subject matter base for conducting educational programs for families. Advice on choice of courses should be sought from the Family and Consumer Sciences Education and Studies program, the Associate Dean and Director of Iowa State University Human Sciences Extension and Outreach, and/or the Iowa State University Extension and Outreach 4-H Youth Development Program Leader. Undergraduate Majors For more information about a major, see: The curriculum descriptions in this section of the catalog The department catalog section under Courses and Programs Department websites. Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management Apparel, Merchandising, and Design Options: Merchandising; Creative and Technical Design; and Product Development See Curriculum in Apparel, Merchandising, and Design Event Management See Curriculum in Event Management Hospitality Management See Curriculum in Hospitality Management Food Science and Human Nutrition Culinary Food Science See Curriculum in Culinary Food Science Diet and Exercise B.S./M.S. Jointly administered with the Department of Kinesiology. See Curriculum in Diet and Exercise Dietetics See Curriculum in Dietetics Food Science Options: Food Science and Industry; Food Science and Technology. See Curriculum in Food Science Nursing: See Curriculum in Nursing Nutritional Science Options: Pre-Health Professional and Research; Family Health; Food Service; Global Health and Policy; Health Coach; and Nutrition and Wellness. See Curriculum in Nutritional Science Human Development and Family Studies Human Development and Family Studies Options: Child Programs; Youth Programs; and Adult/Family Programs. See Human Development and Family Studies Early Childhood Education - Unified Administered jointly by the School of Education and the Department of Human Development and Family Studies. See Curriculum in Early Childhood Education - Unified Family and Consumer Sciences Education and Studies Options: Communications; Professional Studies; Teacher Licensure. See Curriculum in Family and Consumer Sciences Education and Studies Financial Counseling and Planning See Curriculum in Financial Counseling and Planning Affiliated Program: Early Childcare Education and Programming. Offered by the Great Plains Interactive Distance Education Alliance (GPIDEA). See Curriculum in Early Childcare Education and Programming Kinesiology Athletic Training See Curriculum in Athletic Training Diet and Exercise B.S./M.S. Jointly administered with the Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition. See Curriculum in Diet and Exercise Kinesiology & Health Options: Community and Public Health; Exercise Science; Physical Activity and Health Promotion; Physical Education Teacher Education; and Pre-Health Professions. See Curriculum in Kinesiology & Health School of Education Early Childhood Education - Unified Administered jointly by the School of Education and the Department of Human Development and Family Studies. See Curriculum in Early Childhood Education - Unified Elementary Education Administered by the School of Education. See Curriculum in Elementary Education K-12/Secondary Education The Secondary Education program has three routes, an undergraduate route, a post bachelor route, and a graduate route. Undergraduate Secondary Education Offered in conjunction with subject matter areas, or majors, offered by various departments across the university campus. These subject matter areas include agriculture, biology, chemistry, earth sciences, English, family and consumer sciences, health, history-social sciences, mathematics, music, physics, physical education, and world languages. See Teacher Education Post-Bachelor Secondary Education Coordinated by departments/programs across the university campus. These subject matter areas include agriculture, biology, chemistry, earth sciences, English, family and consumer sciences, health, history-social sciences, mathematics, music, physics, physical education, and world languages. See Teacher Education Graduate Secondary Education in the School of Education Masters of Arts in Teaching in Science Education and Masters of Education in Mathematics Education are coordinated by the School of Education. Other education programs, such as agriculture education, family consumer sciences education, and physical education teacher education, offer masters programs to pursue program completion through their own departments. International Studies (secondary major only) The International Studies Program is an interdisciplinary program which may be taken only as a second major. Students pursuing a second major in international studies must complete the International Studies Program as described in this catalog (see International Studies). Undergraduate Minors Minors are available to all Iowa State students. Minors consist of at least 15 credits including 6 credits taken at Iowa State University in courses numbered 300 or above. A student may not apply the same course to two different minors. The minor must include 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college or university requirement. Minors are available in the following areas: Apparel, Merchandising, and Design Human Development and Family Studies Culinary Food Science Dance Educational Services in Family and Consumer Sciences Event Management Exercise Science Financial Counseling and Planning Food and Society Food Safety (interdepartmental minor) Food Science Gerontology (interdisciplinary minor) Global Human Sciences Health Promotion Hospitality Management Learning and Leadership Sciences Learning Technologies Kinesiology Nutrition Graduate Programs The College of Human Sciences offers a variety of programs leading to a Master's degree, a Ph.D., or a graduate certificate. Each unit offers a variety of program options, as well as opportunities for interdisciplinary study in the areas of gerontology, toxicology, nutritional studies, and genetics. Multiple opportunities for on-campus and distance education programs are available. Preparation for Graduate Study Students considering graduate studies should gain background knowledge in basic subjects related to their area of interest. Undergraduate mathematics, statistics, and research methods courses are useful as preparation for advanced study in graduate school. Upon completion of graduate programs, students are qualified for leadership positions in business; government agencies; and public and private agencies and institutions; as well as for teaching, research, and extension positions in colleges and universities. Information for Prospective Students Graduate study in the College of Human Sciences is conducted through collaboration with the Graduate College, and application is completed through the Graduate College. Details regarding the application process and general information about graduate studies at ISU are found in the Graduate College section of this catalog, (http://www.grad-college.iastate.edu/). Details regarding the curricula and specific expectations for each program are found on department websites. Each graduate student in the College of Human Sciences works closely with an academic advisor and a Program of Study (POSC) committee. The POSC assists students in developing academic programs tailored to meet individual needs, guide research and/or internship activities, and provide information and guidance about career choices. Graduate assistantship support is available for many students and involves them in research, teaching, and administrative experiences. Incoming students are encouraged to work with departmental advisors to develop appropriate class and assistantship activities. Graduate Curricula Information about curricula and degree options for each College of Human Sciences unit is available on the unit websites below. •Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management – http://www.aeshm.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-programs/ •Food Science & Human Nutrition – http://www.fshn.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-program/ •Human Development & Family Studies – https://www.hdfs.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-programs/ •Kinesiology – https://www.kin.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-programs/kinesiology/ •School of Education - https://education.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/ Distance Education Opportunities The College of Human Sciences offers several online courses and programs. Degrees include PhD, Master's, Undergraduate, and Certificates. Many courses incorporate a blended or hybrid approach, where online students interact with students on campus in real time using webinar services. Some degree programs are provided with a combination of online and condensed schedules that require limited time on campus. Details about these offerings are found on the website at https://hs.iastate.edu/graduate-students/academics-graduate/online-programs-graduate/. Of these programs, six Certificates, one Undergraduate, and four Masters programs are offered through collaboration with the Great Plains Interactive Distance Education Alliance (GP-IDEA; http://www.gpidea.org/). These online programs allow students to earn a graduate degree from ISU while taking courses and interacting with students from a number of participating universities. The CHS also offers a Masters of Family and Consumer Sciences-Comprehensive degree online where students have the flexibility to design a program of study the best meets their professional goals. Undergraduate Certificates An undergraduate certificate provides a way to give formal recognition of focused study in a specialized area that is less comprehensive than required for an undergraduate major. At Iowa State University, an undergraduate certificate is awarded concurrently or after baccalaureate requirements are finished. The following undergraduate certificate is available in the College of Human Sciences: Health Coach Certificate Graduate Certificates Graduate certificates provide formal recognition of focused graduate study in an area of specialization that is less comprehensive than required for a master’s degree. At Iowa State University, a graduate certificate may be earned either before, after, or concurrently with the master’s or doctoral degree. The following graduate certificates are available in the College of Human Sciences: Applied Research Methods in Human Sciences Certificate - see https://www.education.iastate.edu/graduate-programs/applied-research/ Community College Teaching Certificate - see https://education.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/division-of-higher-education/ed-d-in-education/ Development and Family Sciences Advanced Research Design and Methods - see https://hdfs.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/graduate-certificates/ * Dietetics Internship Certificate - see www.dietetics.iastate.edu/ Education for Social Justice Certificate - see https://education.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/school-of-education-certification-programs/education-for-social-justice-graduate-certificate/ * Family Financial Planning Certificate - see www.online.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-programs/masters/mfcs-ffp/ * Financial and Housing Counseling Certificate - see www.online.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-programs/masters/mfcs-ffp/ Family Well Being in Diverse Society - see https://hdfs.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/graduate-certificates/ * Gerontology Certificate - see www.hdfs.hs.iastate.edu/graduate/curriculum/ms-fcs/ * Infant and Early Childhood Mental Health - see https://hdfs.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/graduate-certificates/ * Instructional Design Certificate - see https://education.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/division-of-teaching-learning-leadership-and-policy/graduate-certificates/instructional-design-certificate/ Life Span Development - see https://hdfs.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/graduate-certificates/ * Literacy Coaching Certificate - see https://education.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/division-of-teaching-learning-leadership-and-policy/graduate-certificates/literacy-coaching-certificate/ Principal Endorsement (Pre-LEAD) - see https://education.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/division-of-teaching-learning-leadership-and-policy/educator-prep-programs-for-licensure-recommendation/transformative-school-leadership-program-licensure-recommendation-m-ed/ Special Education Certificate - see https://education.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/division-of-teaching-learning-leadership-and-policy/graduate-certificates/special-education-instructional-strategist-certificate/ Superintendent Licensure - see https://education.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/division-of-teaching-learning-leadership-and-policy/ed-d-in-education/ * Youth Development Specialist - see http://www.online.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-programs/masters/mfcs-youth-development/ * Youth Program Management & Evaluation - see http://www.online.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-programs/masters/mfcs-youth-development/ * online certificate Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.