Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Taxation, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) The curriculum for a master’s degree in taxation is designed for students with an undergraduate degree in business administration or accounting. Students not holding such degrees are welcome to apply but will have to satisfy additional requirements as described below in the Curriculum section. Most graduate courses in the Mihaylo College of Business and Economics require “classified MCBE status” and are open only to students with classified standing in the MBA, M.S. in Accountancy, M.S. in Taxation, M.S. in Information Systems, or M.A. in Economics programs. Admission Requirements Admission is competitive. Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants will be evaluated based on the following: satisfactory score on the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT). Students must score in the top 50 percent on the verbal, quantitative and analytical writing areas; a bachelor’s degree with a major in business administration equivalent to the degree as offered at CSUF with at least an overall cumulative GPA of 3.0 (B) and ACCT 308 (or an equivalent course or work experience). The degree must include calculus and software applications equivalent to passing MATH 135 with a “C” (2.0) or better. Courses in the major are to be no more than seven years old. Courses in the major must have at least a 3.0 (B) GPA, and courses with grades lower than “C” (2.0) must be repeated. Applicants with a bachelor’s degree in a field other than Business Administration may be considered for admission. If admitted, such students will be required to complete additional courses or demonstrate proficiency as described in the next section (Curriculum); a minimum score of 570 on the paper exam, 230 on the computer-based, or 90 on the internet based (iBT) TOEFL is required (for international students); and a recommendation from the MS Taxation Admission Committee based upon a review of the above requirements, the student’s “Statement of Purpose,” and prior work experience. Additional coursework may be required of admitted students who holistically satisfy the criteria but are weak in one of the above areas. M.S. Taxation Curriculum Students admitted with a bachelor’s degree in a field other than business administration and without equivalent prior coursework will be required to complete MATH 135 and ACCT 308 with a “C” (2.0) or better; and also the following business foundation courses: ACCT 510 ; ECON 515 , FIN 320 or FIN 517 ; and MGMT 515 . These courses must be completed with at least a 3.0 (“B”) GPA, with a “C” (2.0) or better for each course. These requirements are in addition to the Study Plan as described next. Study Plan At least 21 of the 30 units required for the degree must be at the 500 level. A 3.0 (B) GPA is required in study plan courses and over-all applicable coursework. Any study plan course with a grade lower than “C” (2.0) must be repeated with at least a “C” (2.0). Required Tax Courses (9 units) ACCT 571 - Tax Research, Practice and Procedures (3) ACCT 572 - Seminar in Taxation of Corporations and Shareholders Corp. II (3) ACCT 578 - Seminar in Taxation of Partnerships (3) Electives in Taxation and Related Fields (9 units) Selected in consultation with, and approved by, the student’s program adviser. Available courses include but are not limited to: ACCT 415 - Accounting Ethics For Professionals (4) ACCT 508 - Seminar in Tax Planning (3) ACCT 573 - Seminar in Taxation of Property Transactions (3) ACCT 574 - Seminar in Taxation of International Business Operations (3) ACCT 575 - Seminar in Estate, Gift, Inheritance Taxes and Estate Planning (3) ACCT 576 - Seminar in State and Local Taxation (3) ACCT 577 - Seminar in Taxation of Employee Compensation (3) ACCT 580 - Seminar in Taxation of S Corporations, LLCs and LLPs (3) Other Electives (9 units) Selected in consultation with, and approved by, the student’s adviser. One course (3 units) in either economics or political science and two courses (6 units) in either business or non-business fields. Terminal Evaluation (3 units) ACCT 597 - Project (3) Total Units (30 Units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).