Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Pre-professional Study Select a section... Overview Pre-Health & Pre-Medical Pre-Law Pre-Veterinary Medicine Contact Information Emily Olson 102 Catt Hall pre-health.las.iastate.edu/ prehealth@iastate.edu 515-294-4831 pre-law.las.iastate.edu/ prelaw@iastate.edu Catalog Home > Pre-professional Study Pre-professional Study Iowa State University is a great place to prepare for careers that require professional school training, such as medical school, law school or veterinary school. Requirements for admission to most professional academic programs can be met during your studies at Iowa State University. The specific courses taken in a pre-professional program will depend primarily upon the admission requirements of the professional schools to which a student wants to apply. In some programs where professional schools require only three years of pre-professional work, a student may, by careful planning, complete requirements for the bachelor’s degree upon transferring to Iowa State up to 32 semester credits of professional coursework. Generally these reverse transfer credits will be counted as electives, but a maximum of 24 may be used to apply to a major in Interdisciplinary Studies and a smaller number may be used to meet requirements in other majors as approved by the faculty. All students, whether they have selected a major or not, are encouraged to identify their interest in a professional career by designating it on their application to the university. Students who have not decided on a major can enter Iowa State as pre-professional students, selecting pre-medical, pre-law, pre-professional health (PHP), Open Option, or General Undergraduate Studies Pre-Veterinary Medicine (GENPV), until they choose a major or transfer to a professional school. Information about pre-professional program admissions requirements and career opportunities in human health or law is available in the Liberal Arts and Sciences Advising Center. Information about veterinary medicine admissions requirements and career opportunities is available from the coordinator of the pre-veterinary program in the Office of the Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine. Learn More About These and Other Pre-Professional Pathways Pre-Health & Pre-Medicine Dentistry Human Medicine Optometry Pharmacy Physical Therapy Physician's Assistant Pre-Law Pre-Veterinary Medicine Pre-Health & pre-medical Advising Iowa State University is a great place to prepare for careers in health and medicine. As a major research university with an exceptional student experience, we’re excited to help you create a competitive application for medical or professional school. Whether you are aiming for a career in human medicine, dentistry, occupational health, physical therapy, pharmacy, optometry, health information management, dietetics, hospital and health administration, medical technology, clinical lab sciences, or many others, you can find the classes and experiences you need to be prepared for the next steps in your professional training. Learn more on the Pre-health and Pre-medical Professions Advising website. PRE-Law Preparation A student planning to enter law school may pursue an undergraduate degree in any discipline. The choice of the bachelor’s degree should reflect a student’s passion and personal interests rather than be limited by a belief that law schools require a specific major. Students should complete courses that will enhance their strengths in critical thinking, analytical writing, research and oral communication. Courses from a broad range of disciplines will provide students with the knowledge base and skills to support their preparation for law school. Courses might include accounting, criminal justice, economics, English literature, history, management, mathematics, political science, psychology, philosophy and statistics. Advanced writing courses and speech communication courses will also serve students well. The American Bar Association advises students that “taking a broad range of difficult courses from demanding instructors is excellent preparation for legal education.” The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences participates in a 3+3 program with the Law Schools at Drake University and at the University of Iowa. Visit the Liberal Arts and Sciences Student Academic Services office for details about the 3+3 program and pre-law club, and to explore your pathway to law school. Learn more on the Pre-Law Advising website. Pre-Veterinary Medicine Deanna Gerber (futuredvm@iastate.edu) About 75% of all veterinarians are engaged in private practice. In a mixed practice, they diagnose and treat health problems among a variety of animals. Others specialize in one species (e.g., feline, pet bird) and still others specialize in a specific discipline within veterinary medicine (e.g., cardiology, ophthalmology). Veterinarians may also choose public and corporate practice (e.g., public health, education, research, food safety, industry, laboratory animal medicine, aquatic animal medicine, poultry medicine, and military veterinary medicine). The professional program requires four years at a college of veterinary medicine and leads to the doctor of veterinary medicine degree (D.V.M.). Admission to a veterinary college involves at least two years of preprofessional college education. Candidates must take courses in biology, chemistry, genetics, physics, English, humanities, social sciences, speech, anatomy and physiology, and biochemistry. (For Iowa State University see Pre-Veterinary Medicine Preparation in the Veterinary Medicine section of the catalog; for the most current information regarding applications and admission to the College of Veterinary Medicine, please refer to the College website at www.vetmed.iastate.edu/.) Students may pursue their preveterinary preparation in any college at Iowa State University. A major (preveterinary medicine is not a major) should be selected that is allied to each student’s vocational interests in veterinary medicine or that otherwise offers vocational satisfaction in the event that plans for entry into the College of Veterinary Medicine change. Students are encouraged to pursue a bachelor’s degree; the most effective progress toward a bachelor’s degree is made when a major is selected upon entry and no change occurs before graduation. However, students who have not even considered a career other than veterinary medicine may need some time to explore possibilities before selection of a major. To assist students who have indicated interest in the preveterinary program for the College of Veterinary Medicine and are undecided about a major, an advising category is available known as GENPV (General Undergraduate Studies Pre Vet). Orientation and advising services for these students are designed to help students fulfill preveterinary course requirements, to introduce available majors and careers allied to veterinary medicine, and to introduce career options in veterinary medicine. GENPV students must select a major by the end of their second semester. Some Iowa State University majors allow, by careful planning, the opportunity for a student to earn the bachelor’s degree by combining credits from three years of preprofessional study and one year of professional study in the College of Veterinary Medicine. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.