Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2020-2021 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Communication Studies, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Return to: College of Communications (30 UNITS) The Master of Arts in Communication Studies is for students who have an interest in and background for advanced study of communication theories and processes. The degree provides broad exposure to the discipline and, at the same time, allows students to specialize in one area (e.g., argumentation and persuasion, critical-cultural studies, digital media, health, instructional, intercultural, interpersonal, organizational, rhetoric, etc.). The M.A. is an advanced degree and all students are expected to complete comprehensive exams, a thesis or a research project. The objectives of the program include: improving students’ academic and professional competence in communication studies; developing students’ research capabilities; increasing students’ knowledge in their area of specialization; preparing students for advanced work toward the doctoral degree; and for those students planning teaching careers, to improve their teaching skills. Students in the program are expected to demonstrate a high degree of intellectual competence and scholarly discipline, develop the ability to evaluate concepts, research and theories critically, and demonstrate mastery of an area of specialization. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a Master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information as well as the Master’s handbook for this program. Applicants must have a Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution. (See the section on Graduate Regulations for a complete statement of the procedures for admission.) The graduate director is available to answer questions on the admission process. All applicants will be notified in writing of admission decisions. The Graduate Program Committee considers the below factors in evaluating applications: Coursework and background completed in communication studies or an allied field. Students with majors outside the communication discipline will be considered, but may be required to take up to nine units of background studies in communication to prepare for the program GPA of 3.0 or better in the last 60 units attempted is expected Three Recommendation Forms from people (e.g., professors or professionals) familiar with the applicant’s academic abilities. If the applicant is applying for a Graduate Student Assistantship, these letters should also indicate support for a Teaching Associate or Forensics Assistant position. Download the Recommendation Form from the department website A cover letter from the applicant stating their professional interests, goals, and objectives in obtaining a Communication Studies MA. Send the letter directly to the graduate director A writing sample, preferably academic writing from an upper-division course. The sample should be substantial enough to demonstrate the applicant’s writing, reasoning and research ability. If the applicant does not have a 10- to 20-page sample, multiple shorter samples should be provided. Graduate Standing - Classified A student who meets the requirements for conditionally classified graduate standing, as well as the following requirements, may be granted classified graduate standing. Enrolling in HCOM 500 and HCOM 536 within the first 12 units of work. Submitting a study plan approved by their Master’s Committee Chair, the department Graduate Program Director, and the Associate Vice President, Academic Programs (or designee). A study plan must be approved before the completion of 13 units of study plan coursework. Graduate Study Plan Requirements for the Communication Studies M.A. consist of a minimum of 24–30 units of 400- and 500- level coursework plus successful completion of a comprehensive examination (0 units), project (3 units), or thesis (6 units). Required Courses (6 units) Should be taken within the first two semesters of study. Must be completed with a “B” (3.0) or better. HCOM 500 - Research in Speech Communication (3) HCOM 536 - Seminar in Communication and Rhetorical Theory (3) Electives (18–24 units) A minimum of 9 units must be 500-level; a maximum of 6 adviser-approved units may be in a related field. HCOM 413 - Communication in Interpersonal Relationships (3) HCOM 415 - Seminar in Digital Media and Culture (3) HCOM 422 - Applications of Intercultural Communication (3) HCOM 425 - Health Communication (3) HCOM 432 - Contemporary Rhetoric (3) HCOM 433 - Training and Development (3) HCOM 440 - The Dark Side of Interpersonal Communication (3) HCOM 445 - Leadership: Toxic and Intoxicating (3) HCOM 456 - Intercultural Conflict: Theory and Practice (3) HCOM 469 - Intergroup Communication (3) HCOM 492T - Proseminar in Speech Communication (3) HCOM 507 - Seminar in Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies (3) HCOM 509 - Qualitative Research Methods (3) HCOM 510 - Seminar in Interpersonal and Relational Communication (3) HCOM 520 - Seminar in Group Communication (3) HCOM 522 - Seminar in Intercultural Communication (3) HCOM 525 - Seminar in Organizational Communication (3) HCOM 530 - Seminar in Rhetorical Theory and Criticism (3) HCOM 535 - Seminar in Argumentation and Persuasion (3) HCOM 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) (maximum 6 units) Culminating Experience (0–6 units) Comprehensive Examination HCOM 597 - Directed Graduate Research (3) HCOM 598A - Thesis (2) and HCOM 598B - Thesis (2) and HCOM 598C - Thesis (2) Total (30 units) Return to: College of Communications Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).