Skip to Content About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Research Quick Links Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs The Second Century Campaign Virtual Tour Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More ﻿ Alumni Parents News Media Faculty/Staff ﻿ Apply ﻿ Give ﻿ Get Involved ﻿ Follow Us ﻿ ﻿ Twitter ﻿ Facebook ﻿ Instagram ﻿ LinkedIn ﻿ YouTube ﻿ Social Stream ﻿ Apply Give Get Involved ☰ About SMU ﻿ About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center A nationally ranked private university with seven degree-granting schools, SMU is a distinguished center for teaching and research located near the heart of Dallas. SMU’s 11,000 students benefit from small classes, research opportunities, leadership development, international study and innovative programs. The University is strengthened by its partnership with the Dallas region, a global center of commerce and culture. SMU students, faculty and alumni are changing the world through their chosen fields, civic engagement and service to society. Academics ﻿ Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Study Abroad Continuing & Professional Education International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Teaching and research fuse into breakthrough experiences in one of the brightest academic communities in the world. Our 11:1 student-to-faculty ratio means students build strong relationships with outstanding faculty who champion their ambition and drive, whether it’s for tackling climate change, fighting cancer or pursuing another passion. Admission ﻿ Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour SMU’s singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We’d like to help you shape yours. Apply Now Schedule a Visit Athletics ﻿ SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports SMU offers 16 nationally competitive sports programs and more than 30 individual and team intramural activities. We prepare student-athletes for life by equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to become valuable citizens and leaders in their communities. Campus Life Research Quick Links ﻿ Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs The Second Century Campaign Virtual Tour SMU is one of only nine universities affiliated with a presidential library. The George W. Bush Presidential Center (left) offers unique learning experiences to SMU students – including free admission to museum exhibits – plus research opportunities for faculty and scholars from around the world. Bush Center Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Southern Methodist University May 31, 2022 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog Select a Catalog Bulletin of Southern Methodist University Volume CV 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home University Calendar About SMU Catalog Policy and Legal Statement The University Curriculum Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Cox School of Business Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Simmons School of Education and Human Development Majors and Minors Course Descriptions Admission Enrollment and Academic Records Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Student Life and Housing Right to Know Educational Programs Educational Facilities and Services Administration and Faculty Financial Information Bulletin 2017-2018 My Catalog HELP 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Individualized Studies in the Liberal Arts, B.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Professor Renee McDonald, Director General Information. The major in individualized studies in the liberal arts provides students the opportunity to design a thematically coherent interdisciplinary program of study that brings fields of inquiry together in unique combinations not currently offered as a program in the SMU curriculum. Interested and academically qualified students are invited to explore this possibility with the program’s director (Dedman College Associate Dean of Academic Affairs). If the student’s plan of study appears to have merit, the director will suggest faculty members in appropriate departments and divisions of the University who can provide further assistance in designing the program. Students must ask at least three faculty members to constitute a Faculty Supervisory Committee, with one serving as chair. Students with at least a 3.500 GPA in the first 24 credit hours taken through enrollment at SMU are eligible to pursue the program, which consists of individually designed majors in the liberal arts of at least 36 credit hours, with a minimum of 24 credit hours of advanced courses (3000 level or above). The program must satisfy all University-wide requirements and all other University and Dedman College graduation requirements. Students are responsible for fulfilling all prerequisites for courses taken. The degree will be identified as a B.A. with a major in individualized studies in the liberal arts. A note on the transcript will denote the specialization. Students intending to seek admission to graduate schools are encouraged to include at least 30 hours of a coherent set of courses in an identifiable disciplinary field. Administrative Procedures. The Dedman College Undergraduate Council shall have the final authority to approve all individualized studies programs. The Dedman College associate dean for academic affairs will act as the director of the individualized studies program. Prior to declaring the major, a number of steps must be completed: The student should contact the Dedman College Office of Records and Academic Services to confirm that the student is eligible to declare an individualized studies program. The student, with the assistance of the director, must form a Faculty Supervisory Committee with a minimum of three members. The committee will provide advice and guidance to the student. At least two members, including the chair of the committee, shall be resident members of the Dedman College faculty. The student will submit a plan of study to the director and to each Faculty Supervisory Committee member. If the committee and the director approve the plan of study, the plan is then submitted for approval by the Dedman College Undergraduate Council. The plan is transmitted to the Dedman College Office of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and to the Dedman College Office of Records and Academic Services. The plan of study must be submitted to the Dedman College Undergraduate Council for approval before the completion of 60 total credit hours of coursework. The chair of the Faculty Supervisory Committee and the Dedman College Dean’s Office will recommend candidates for graduation. The director of the Office of Records and Academic Services will be responsible for verifying and certifying graduation requirements. Distinction. Students completing an individualized studies major can do so with distinction, which is a prearranged, two-term sequence of advanced coursework culminating in an advanced research project. The research is planned during the junior year and accomplished during the senior year. Many of these projects may qualify as a project through the Dedman College Interdisciplinary Institute and/or an Engaged Learning project, and it is the student’s responsibility to consider all possibilities and deadlines. To undertake distinction, a student must have completed 60 hours of coursework, have a GPA of 3.500 in the major courses, and must have completed a minimum of 15 advanced hours in the individualized studies major. The research project for distinction in individualized studies must be substantively different from a research project for possible distinction in a second major field. Graduation with distinction is designated on the diploma for a student who successfully completes the criteria outlined. To earn distinction, a student must Complete 36 hours of approved coursework for the individualized studies major with a 3.500 GPA or higher. Submit a formal research proposal, based on the two options listed below, for approval of the student’s Faculty Supervisory Committee and the individualized studies program director (Dedman College Dean’s Office). The proposal must be unanimously approved. Any substantive changes must be reviewed and approved by the Faculty Supervisory Committee. Option One: Create a distinction committee of three faculty members including at least two members of the Faculty Supervisory Committee. This project committee should include a mentor in each field that the project brings together. Complete an advanced theory or methods course as recommended by the student’s distinction committee and approved by the Faculty Supervisory Committee. This course may or may not be a part of the 36-hour major and should directly relate to the development of the distinction project. Complete a research project for three credit hours beyond the 36-hour major requirement. This can either be a DCAR course or an independent study taken in the field connected to the primary distinction committee member. As part of the course, the student must complete a significant research paper with a minimum of 5,000 to 8,000 words of text, including a bibliography, in APA or other appropriate academic writing style. The course instructor is the primary member of the distinction committee. Option Two: If the student has significant coursework in one Dedman College subject area, the student may submit a proposal to the Faculty Supervisory Committee to meet that department’s requirements for distinction. This plan must have the approval of the Faculty Supervisory Committee and the department. The course instructor for distinction must be a faculty member of that department and a member of the student’s Faculty Supervisory Committee. Give an oral presentation and defense of the project to the distinction committee or instructor (whichever is applicable), the student’s Faculty Supervisory Committee and the individualized studies program director (Dedman College Dean’s Office). The presentation should include an overview of the project rationale, methodology, significant results and relevance to the larger academic community. This presentation must be scheduled to take place before the last day of instruction. The distinction paper must be submitted at least two weeks prior to presentation to the distinction committee or instructor, the Faculty Supervisory Committee, and the individualized studies program director (Dedman College Dean’s Office). All parties must be able to attend. For option two, the instructor and the Faculty Supervisory Committee must be able to attend. Complete the overall project with a grade of A or A-, determined by the student’s distinction project committee or instructor, and approved by the Faculty Supervisory Committee and the director of the individualized studies program. When all the above qualifications have been met, the granting of distinction for individualized studies in the liberal arts is recommended by the Faculty Supervisory Committee to the director of the program, and ultimately granted or denied by the individualized studies program director (Dedman College Dean’s Office). Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 Southern Methodist University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).