Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Technical Communication Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plan Undergraduate Minor Contact Information Samantha Robinson-Adams 307 Ross Hall engl.iastate.edu/undergraduate-students/majors/technical-communication-b-s-or-minor/ slr@iastate.edu 515-294-5206 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Technical Communication The Technical Communication major (and minor) prepares students for careers that involve writing and designing a wide range of texts, including online content. The major prepares students to make scientific, business, and technical information clear and usable for their intended audiences. Courses emphasize research, critical thinking, collaboration (with other content developers and subject-matter experts), organization, writing, editing, and design. Some students double major in Technical Communication and a technical or scientific field. Technical Communication is also often a second major or minor for students who major in English. BS in Technical Communication Learning Outcomes Students who major in Technical Communication will be able to compose a wide range of print and online documents for use in business, schools, and communities. understand technical and scientific information and strategies for producing texts to communicate that information to others. describe and use the theories that assess print and online documents, collaboration, organizational activities, and various technologies. demonstrate mastery of concepts from organizational culture and visual communication, including collaborative writing and clear professional/technical documentation. identify specific audience needs in rapidly changing digital and print environments. identify and create user-friendly interfaces; understand and put into practice strategies to enable the optimal usability of documents. Technical Communication Major Requirements Majors develop advanced skills in multiple aspects of technical communication and apply their knowledge of technical communication to a specific discipline. Technical communication majors must take 33 credits within the major and 6 hours in a designated area of concentration related to science, technology, or design (an acceptable minor will also fulfill this requirement). ENGL 214 Introduction to Technical Communication 3 ENGL 310 Rhetorical Analysis 3 ENGL 313 Rhetorical Website Design 3 ENGL 314 Technical Communication 3 ENGL 415 Business and Technical Editing 3 ENGL 416 Visual Aspects of Business and Technical Communication 3 Electives: 9 credits (with at least 6 credits from 400 or above courses) 9 ENGL 220 Descriptive English Grammar ENGL 302 Business Communication ENGL 309 Proposal and Report Writing SP CM 312 Business and Professional Speaking ENGL 312 Communicating Science and Public Engagement ENGL 350 Rhetorical Traditions ENGL 418 Seminar in Argumentation ENGL 477 Seminar in Technical Communication ENGL 487 Internship in Business, Technical, and Professional Communication ENGL 542 Document Design and Editing ENGL 549 Multimedia and Interaction Design Designated Area of Concentration (DAC) in technical, scientific, or design field 6 Total Credits 33 Technical Communication Major Requirements Technical Communication majors are required to have, in addition to ISUComm foundation courses (ENGL 150 Critical Thinking and Communication and ENGL 250 Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition), at least 33 credits in TComm (including 6 credits in a designated area of concentration). Majors transferring from other institutions must take at least 18 of their credits in TComm while in residence at Iowa State. To graduate with a major in Technical Communication and meet the university-wide Communication Proficiency Grade Requirement, a student must have credit for ENGL 150 Critical Thinking and Communication and earn at least a C (not C-) in ENGL 250 Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition as well as in each of the courses taken to fulfill the program of study, including one advanced communication course. Designated Area of Concentration Courses The Designated Area of Concentration (DAC) is a student-designed grouping of related courses in a technical, scientific, or design field that will meet the student's professional or academic interests. Courses for the 6-credit DAC must be taken outside the English Department and approved by the Technical Communication Program Advisor. A second major or a minor in areas such as computer science, social science, natural science, entrepreneurial studies, design studies, engineering studies, or another technical, scientific, or design field may substitute for the DAC. Students in all ISU majors must complete a three-credit course in U.S. diversity and a three-credit course in international perspectives. Check http://www.registrar.iastate.edu/courses/div-ip-guide.html for a list of approved courses. Discuss with your advisor how the two courses that you select can be applied to your graduation plan. LAS majors require a minimum of 120 credits, including a minimum of 45 credits at the 300/400 level. You must also complete the LAS world language requirement. Technical Communication, B.S. Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 150 (or ENGL 250 by placement or transfer credit) 3 Social Science Choice 3 Humanities Choice 3 Natural Science Choice 3 World Language/Elective 4 Humanities Choice 3 MATH or STAT 3 World Language/Elective 4 LIB 160 1 ENGL 250 (if not in Fall); or ENGL 310 3 ENGL 214 3 17 16 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 310, 313, or 250 3 Technical/Scientific/Design Course 3 Social Science Choice 3 ENGL 314 3 U.S. Diversity Choice 3 ENGL 313, 310, or TComm Elective 3 Natural Science Choice 3 Humanities Choice or elective 3 Elective/Minor 3 TComm Elective/Minor 3 Natural Science Choice 2 15 17 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits TComm Choice: ENG 416, 477, or other 400-level TComm course 3 ENGL 415 3 Elective/Minor 3 Minor 3 International Perspectives Choice 3 TComm Elective from List (ENGL 300+) 3 Humanities Choice 3 Technical/Scientific/Design Course 3 Social Science Choice 3 Electives 3 15 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits Technical/Scientific/Design Course 3 ENGL 487 (recommended) 3 TComm Elective from List – ENGL 400+ 9 TComm Elective from List – ENGL 400+ 3 Electives/Minor 3 Electives or Minor 6 15 12 Technical Communication Minor Requirements The department offers a minor in Technical Communication, which students may earn by completing the following: ENGL 314 Technical Communication 3 Choose 4: 12 ENGL 214 Introduction to Technical Communication ENGL 302 Business Communication ENGL 309 Proposal and Report Writing ENGL 310 Rhetorical Analysis ENGL 312 Communicating Science and Public Engagement ENGL 313 Rhetorical Website Design ENGL 332 Visual Communication of Quantitative Information ENGL 350 Rhetorical Traditions or with the appropriate prerequisites ENGL 411 Technology, Rhetoric, and Professional Communication ENGL 415 Business and Technical Editing ENGL 416 Visual Aspects of Business and Technical Communication ENGL 418 Seminar in Argumentation ENGL 477 Seminar in Technical Communication ENGL 529 Content Management ENGL 542 Document Design and Editing ENGL 549 Multimedia and Interaction Design Total Credits 15 Nine of the 15 credits must be 300 level or above and students must earn a grade of C (not C-) or higher in each course taken in the minor. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Students may design their minor programs around their own interests but are encouraged to work with the Technical Communication Program Advisor. Note: Students should check the ISU catalog to be sure that they meet prerequisites if they intend to register for 400+ courses. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.