Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) To qualify for admission to a conditionally classified standing, students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, to qualify for admission with conditionally classified standing, applicants must meet the following departmental requirements: Minimum GPA of 2.5 for applicants graduated from domestic (U.S.) institutions with undergraduate degrees in engineering or computer science Minimum GPA of 2.5 for applicants graduated from ABET-accredited international institutions with undergraduate degrees in engineering or computer science Minimum GPA of 3.0 for applicants graduated from domestic (U.S.) institutions with undergraduate degrees other than engineering or computer science Minimum GPA of 3.0 for applicants with undergraduate degrees from non-ABET accredited international institutions Students not meeting the above requirements may be admitted at the discretion of the gradute adviser and may be required to take additional units of adviser-approved prerequisite coursework. The student must demonstrate potential for graduate study by earning a grade point average of 3.0 or higher in these courses. Any student entering the Master of Science degree program without a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering will also be required to complete courses in the areas where the student is deemed to be deficient, prior to beginning coursework for the Master’s degree. Application Deadlines Reference fullerton.edu/ecs for application information. Classified Standing Students meeting the following additional requirements will be advanced to classified standing and are eligible to take graduate courses for which they are qualified: complete all deficiency work, specified by the mechanical engineering graduate program adviser, with a “B” (3.0) average or better; meet with an adviser prior to completing 13 units toward the M.S. degree at CSUF to develop a study plan, which must also be approved by the student’s graduate adviser, department chair and Office of Graduate Studies; and fulfill the university writing requirement prior to completing the M.S. degree (Please refer to the “Graduate Regulations ” section of this catalog and also the class schedule for further information on how this requirement can be met). Study Plan The study plan consists of adviser-approved upper-division or graduate-level coursework that must be completed with an overall grade-point average of at least 3.0. At least half the units required for the degree must be in approved graduate (500-level) courses. Required Course (3 units) Adviser-approved math-oriented course: EGME 438 or EGME 538 Concentration Courses (15 units) A student is required to select a minimum of 15 units in mechanical engineering. These units may be 400- and 500-level courses and are selected according to the student’s area of special interest. Coursework is designed to meet the student’s professional career goals and may focus on the following areas: Power and Energy, Design and Materials for Manufacturing, Thermal and Fluids Engineering, Robotics, Controls and Automated Manufacturing. Other Courses (12 units) Elective units should be taken in mechanical engineering or a related field and are subject to adviser approval. A maximum of three units of non-engineering courses can be approved on the study plan. Culminating Experience (0-6 units) Subject to approval by the adviser, students may select one of the following three options for final review by a department committee: Comprehensive oral examination over selected coursework (five courses, at least three of which are 500-level) EGME 597 - Project (1-6) EGME 598 - Thesis (1-6) Additional Information Students enrolling in less than six units of Thesis/Project will be required to take a comprehensive oral exam. Students enrolling in six units of thesis or project may defend their thesis or project work with an oral exam, limited to their project work, instead of taking a comprehensive oral exam. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).