Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Human Resource Management Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plan Graduate Programs Contact Information Union Pacific Undergraduate Programs Office 1200 Gerdin Business Building ivybusiness.iastate.edu undergrad@iastate.edu 515-294-8300 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Business > Human Resource Management The field of human resource management (HRM) is a core contributor to an efficient and effective organization. HRM is focused on ensuring that organizations have employees with the right knowledge, skills, and abilities to achieve their objectives. HR professionals deliver the effective and necessary recruitment, training, development, and performance management processes that are crucial to sustained organizational success. Our HRM major prepares graduates for success by integrating relevant HR content knowledge and professional skills with a contemporary data-driven perspective that organizations value. Undergraduate Major in Human Resource Management For undergraduate curriculum in business, major in human resource management. The Department of Management and Entrepreneurship offers a major in human resource management. Students will complete the general education requirements (including business foundation courses), supporting courses/major prerequisites, business core requirements for the bachelor of science (B.S.) degree, and 21 additional credits in the major. The instructional objective of the Human Resource Management program is to provide a well-rounded professional education in human resource management. Such an education should provide the student with: knowledge and technical expertise in the functional areas of human resource management, including recruiting, selection, training and development, performance management, compensation and benefits, and employment law relationship management skills, professionalism and business partnering skills, teamwork and collaboration skills, listening skills, and leadership skills critical and analytical thinking, analytical skills, data interpretation and communication skills For more information on the undergraduate major in Human Resource Management, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/human-resource-management/ Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, undergraduate students majoring in Human Resource Management will: Be effective communicators Be effective collaborators Be problem solvers Understand business concepts Recognize ethical and legal responsibilities to organizations Curriculum: In addition to the basic business degree requirements (https://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofbusiness/#curriculuminbusinesstext), human resource management majors must also complete: Required Courses (18 credits): MGMT 471 Personnel and Human Resource Management 3 MGMT 472 Management of Diversity 3 MGMT 473 Advanced Human Resource Management I 3 MGMT 475 Employment Law for Human Resources 3 MGMT 474 Employee Compensation and Benefits 3 MGMT 476 Talent Management 3 Elective Courses (3 credits): ENTSP 320 Corporate Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Technology Management 3 MGMT 470 Leadership and Change Management 3 MGMT 422 Negotiation and Conflict Resolution 3 MIS 436 Introduction to Business Analytics 3 Total Credits: 21 Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minors taken outside the Ivy College of Business. Human Resource Management, B.S. Sample 4-Year Plan (Your plan may differ) Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits BUSAD 102 or 103 1 ECON 102 3 ECON 101 3 STAT 226 3 COM S 113 3 PHIL 230 3 ENGL 150 3 ACCT 284 3 MATH 150 3 Global/International Perspective@ 3 LIB 160 1 BUSAD 203 1 14 16 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits ACCT 285 3 SP CM 212 or 312 3 MGMT 371 3 ACCT 215 3 MATH 151 3 MGMT 310 3 ENGL 250 3 Core Business Course 3 Natural Science 3 HUM/SOC SCI 3 15 15 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 302 3 MGMT 473 3 Core Business Course 6 MGMT 475 3 MGMT 471 3 Core Business Course 6 MGMT 472* 3 HUM/SOC SCI 3 15 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits MGMT 474 3 MGMT 478# 3 HRM Elective 3 MGMT 476 3 Global/International Perspective@ 3 HUM/SOC SCI 3 General Electives 8 General Electives 6 17 15 Total Credits: 122 @ Courses in these requirements may also be used as Global Perspective. * MGMT 472 satisfies the US Diversity requirement # Requires completion of all core courses except MGMT 372 plus senior standing. Students must be admitted to the professional program in business to major in human resource management. The requirements to enter the professional program are: 1. Completion of at least 30 credits, Foundation Courses, ENGL 150, and all ENGL 101/99 courses if required. 2. A minimum GPA of 2.50 either cumulative or in the Foundation Courses. Early admission is allowed for Honors-eligible students. (See your advisor for specific information) Graduation Requirements: 1. Grade of “C” or higher in at least 30 credits of Core and Major courses. 2. 42 credits of 300+ level courses from a four-year institution. 3. 50% of required Business courses must be earned at ISU. 4. At least 32 credits and the LAST 32 credits must be earned at ISU (exceptions for study abroad and internship may be requested). 5. 122 Credits minimum and a Cumulative GPA of at least 2.00 with no quality point deficiencies. 6. A grade of C or better in ENGL 250 required, and also in one other required ENGL course. 7. All 300-level and higher business credits must be earned at a four-year college. 8. Multiple business majors must have at least 15 distinct credits in each of the major requirements; when applicable, one course can be shared between business majors; see your advisor regarding multiple business degree requirements. Graduate Programs The Department of Management and Entrepreneurship participates in the PhD in Business and Technology program. Ph.D. in Business and Technology The doctoral specialization in management (MGMT) will prepare students to conduct and publish scholarly research in management, including the sub-fields of strategy, organizational behavior, and human resource management. In addition to curriculum in these core areas, students will also take courses in research methods and the closely-related area of entrepreneurship. The goal of this program is to prepare students to compete for tenure-track positions at leading research universities in the United States and abroad. As a doctoral candidate, students will learn how to conduct impactful research, and they are expected to develop a research pipeline and publish their work in top academic journals before entering the job market. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, PhD students will be able to: Understand and advance knowledge Create knowledge through original research Teach effectively in an institution of higher education For more information about the PhD program with a specialization in Management, please visit: https://www.ivybusiness.iastate.edu/phd/phd-entrepreneurship-and-management/ Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.