Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advising Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog What’s New … Explore Our Newest Degrees Geography, Environmental Analysis Concentration, B.A. - The Bachelor of Geography, Environmental Analysis concentration is for students interested in physical and environmental geography, and careers in environmental fields. Theatre, Devised Performance/Physical Theatre Concentration, B.F.A. - The Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theatre, Devised Performance/Physical Theatre concentration develops collaborative theatre artists who conceive, design, direct and perform highly athletic, visually stunning, interdisciplinary projects that shape today’s evolving theatrical landscape. Theatre, Directing Concentration, B.A. - The Bachelor of Arts in Theatre, Directing concentration prepares students for a career in directing plays and musicals. Welcome to Cal State Fullerton’s 2022-2023 catalog … … a comprehensive source for current information on academic programs, policies, degree requirements, procedures and course offerings; plus other features to assist you, including advanced search options, user-friendly navigation and a personal portfolio to store favorite programs and courses. If you are new to our online catalog and would like to learn more, click the at the top right of any page. Student Photos Featured Throughout the Catalog Images featured throughout the catalog were submitted by Cal State Fullerton students during a photo contest aimed at capturing the university in all its diverse aspects of life as a Titan. Finalists were selected by a student/faculty/staff committee representing the Daily Titan, athletics, Strategic Communications and Academic Programs. 3 Ways to Search the Catalog Use the Catalog Search box at the top left of the page: Enter a keyword in the box and click Click Advanced Search at the top left of the page: Narrow your search by checking: • Courses • Programs • Hierarchy items • Other content Then type a keyword and click Search Click on a link in the left navigation menu Create Your Own Portfolio You may add items to your own personal Portfolio as you browse through the online catalogs. The Portfolio feature will retain a list of courses, programs, pages, divisions and saved searches that you find interesting and wish to save for future visits to the online Cal State Fullerton catalogs. To add items, click the icon, located at the top right of the page. This will open a new popup window that displays all items currently in your Portfolio. You may remove items from your Portfolio by selecting the check boxes next to them and clicking the Remove button. University Address When corresponding with the university, write to the specific office, college or department. California State University, Fullerton P.O. Box 6850 Fullerton, CA 92834-6850 Telephone information 657-278-2011 Changes of Rules and Policies Although every effort has been made to assure the accuracy of the information in this catalog, students and others who use this catalog should note that laws, rules, and policies change from time to time and that these changes may alter the information contained in this publication. Changes may come in the form of statutes enacted by the Legislature, rules and policies adopted by the Board of Trustees of the California State University, by the chancellor or designee of the California State University, or by the president or designee of the campus. It is not possible in a publication of this size to include all of the rules, policies and other information that pertain to students, the institution, and the California State University. More current or complete information may be obtained from the appropriate department, school, or administrative office. Nothing in this catalog shall be construed as, operate as, or have the effect of an abridgment or a limitation of any rights, powers, or privileges of the Board of Trustees of the California State University, the chancellor of the California State University, or the president of the campus. The trustees, the chancellor, and the president are authorized by law to adopt, amend, or repeal rules and policies that apply to students. This catalog does not constitute a contract or the terms and conditions of a contract between the student and the campus or the California State University. The relationship of students to the campus and the California State University is one governed by statute, rules, and policy adopted by the legislature, the trustees, the chancellor, the presidents and their duly authorized designees. The university reserves the right in its sole judgment and discretion to make changes or modifications of any kind in the university’s academic programs, courses, schedules, or calendar whenever the university or its agents, in their sole and exclusive judgment, deem it necessary or otherwise desirable to do so. The foregoing changes or modifications may include elimination of programs or courses, modification of course or program content, and rescheduling, suspension and/or cancellation of scheduled classes, programs or other academic activities. The university may determine the need or desire to make such changes or modifications after taking into consideration factors including but not limited to university finances and budget, student interest as reflected in enrollment numbers, availability of qualified instructors, conflicts with similar courses, classroom availability, relevance of the subject matter in outside industry, and viability of the subject matter or courses within the academic community. If the university determines that changes or modifications are necessary, it may require or make available alternatives for scheduled classes or other academic notification of any such change as is reasonably practical under the circumstances. Payment of tuition or attendance at any classes shall constitute a student’s acceptance of and acquiescence to the university’s rights as set forth above. The university does not waive or otherwise forgo any other rights as may exist pursuant to statute, policy, statements, legal standards or otherwise. Questions? Contact catalog@fullerton.edu Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).