Skip to Content AZ Index Bulletin Home Institution Home University of Illinois University Home E-mail Maps Search Catalog Home Undergraduate Graduate Professional Programs Print / Download Options 2022-2023 Academic Catalog Home > General Information Toggle Navigation Toggle Navigation General Information Degree & General Education Requirements Policy Notes Undergraduate Graduate Professional Colleges & Academic Units Courses of Instruction Degree Programs Index Archived Academic Catalogs Academic Calendar Class Schedule Graduate Admission Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs Registration, Tuition, and Cost Information General Information The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Academic Catalog is the official listing of courses, programs, and degree requirements for undergraduate and graduate students. Information on courses, curricula, fees, policies, regulations and other matters is subject to change during the period for which the Catalog is in effect. The class schedule is available each term in the Course Explorer. The class schedule lists those courses that will be offered during specific terms, as well as times and locations. Not all courses listed in this Catalog are offered every term. Course Descriptions The Catalog lists courses of instruction alphabetically by subject and numerically by course number. The course number denotes the intended/recommended level of the course: Courses numbered 000-099 are for preparatory work that does not count toward a degree but do count for tuition and load. Courses numbered 100-199 are intended primarily for freshmen and correspond to entry-level work. They may be taken by sophomores, juniors, and seniors. Courses numbered 200-299 are intended for lower-division students who satisfy the published prerequisite(s), if any. Transfer credit from two-year colleges would correspond to 100- and 200-level offerings. Courses numbered 300-399 are intended primarily for juniors and seniors who satisfy the published prerequisite(s), if any. Transfer work from two-year colleges does not correspond to these numbers. Courses numbered 400-499 are intended for upper-division undergraduate students sometimes also for graduate students. Courses numbered 500-599 are intended for graduate and professional school students. Courses numbered 600-799 are available for certain professional school courses with restricted enrollments. These courses apply primarily to law, medicine, and veterinary programs. Course credit is listed after each course title. The university counts credit in credit hours. Following the credit hours is a brief description of the content, requirements for registration to the course (if any), and other advisory statements. Additional information relating to the course content is available in the Course Explorer. For information on credit policies, see the Student Code. A crosslisted course refers to a course offered under the same course title by a different department. Courses may be crosslisted with one or more departments and will be noted by the statement: “Same as.” The description of a crosslisted course is found only in the entry for the controlling department. Reference to the controlling department's course is noted by "See...." Prerequisites are statements that refer to special requirements for registration in certain courses. These may include one or more courses that must be completed prior to, or in the same term. These statements may also recommend knowledge, skills or standards, or class standing that must be demonstrated prior to registration. Back to Top Contact Admissions © 2022-2023 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Web Privacy Notice Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. 2022-2023 Catalog (PDF) A copy of the full 2022-2023 catalog. Cancel