Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Information Technology, Data Science Concentration, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Master of Science in Information Technology (30 UNITS) The Master of Science in Information Technology (MSIT) degree program is for professionals interested in furthering their knowledge in the areas of information technology management and data science. In addition to technical and theoretical knowledge, MSIT students develop the ability to communicate effectively in both synchronous and asynchronous online environments, thus ensuring that they are well-prepared for all modes of modern management practice. Collectively, graduates from the MSIT program are able to perform a wide variety of job functions, including managing and capitalizing on new and existing technologies, and aligning organizational strategies with technological strategies for the purpose of improving organizational decision-making. Concentrations in the M.S. in Information Technology include IT Management and Data Science. Admission Requirements Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants will be evaluated based on the following: Minimum of two years of practical experience in a functional area of business Minimum average score of 530 on the GMAT or a total scaled score of 530 on the GRE An essay explaining why they would be a good candidate for the program is required Successful passage of a phone or facetoface interview designed to assess their level of technology know ledge, skills and abilities to be an online learner For international students, a TOEFL score of 570 on the paper exam Core Courses (15 units) ISDS 415 - Principles of Business Intelligence (3) * or ISDS 557 - Issues in Business Information Technology (3) * ISDS 505 - Programming Concepts for Information Technology (3) * or ISDS 540 - Statistics for Data Science (3) * ISDS 551 - Info Resources and IT Project Management (3) ISDS 555 - Business Databases: Design & Processing (3) ISDS 556 - Data Warehousing and Foundations of Business Intelligence (3) Additional Information * Students must obtain department approval to enroll in these courses Capstone Course (3 units) ISDS 577 - Seminar in Information Systems Implementation (3) (must be taken in the last semester) Data Science Concentration The Information Technology, Data Science Concentration provides students with knowledge, skills and experience in data processing and analytics in the context of business. Students learn to articulate strategies and methods that allow for the effective use and management of data storage and analytics within an organization. Concentration Courses (12 units) ISDS 462 - Applied Business Regression Analysis (3) ISDS 526 - Forecasting for Analytical Decision Making (3) ISDS 570 - Business Data Transformation (3) ISDS 574 - Data Mining for Business Appl (3) Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).