Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home The University of Kansas Home The University of Kansas myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay KU Directory 2022-23 Academic Catalog Search catalog Submit search Catalog Home KU Core Regulations All Courses Resources State Authorization Catalog Archives Print Options 2022-23 Edition Architecture & Design Business Education and Human Sciences Engineering Health Professions Journalism & Mass Communications Law Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts and Sciences Bachelor of General Studies in Liberal Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Certificate in Advanced Professional Skills Master of Arts in Leadership in Diversity and Inclusion Graduate Certificate in Second Language Studies Graduate Certificate in Studies in Equity and Social Diversity in the U.S. --Arts (in CLAS) --Public Affairs Administration (in CLAS) Medical Center Campus Interdisciplinary Studies Medicine (M.D. & Graduate Degrees) Music Nursing Pharmacy Professional Studies Social Welfare Office of Graduate Studies, Lawrence and Edwards Campus Students Office of Graduate Studies, Medical Center Campus Students Office of Academic Success Office of International Affairs ROTC Pre-Majors Bachelor of General Studies in Liberal Arts and Sciences Overview Admissions Degree Requirements Degree Plan Honors Why pursue the B.G.S. Liberal Arts and Sciences degree option? If, as a student, your personal goals are best served by: A more broad-based, liberal arts and sciences curriculum with balanced contributions from natural sciences and mathematics, social sciences, and the humanities (requiring exploration in 15 different disciplines in the College). The broadest preparation for admission into a professional program. An avenue for adding a bachelor’s degree to an already existing technical degree or licensure certificate. A degree option with maximum flexibility. An online KU degree option. A degree that provides students the opportunity to build the skills and knowledge employers indicate are required for success in our changing economy and world community — skills that are limited in current college graduates. The B.G.S. Liberal Arts and Sciences degree option is: Not an “Easy Out” degree option. Academic standards are the same for all degrees granted by the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Not a quick option for a bachelor’s degree. (A minimum of 120 hours is required, including degree specific coursework.) Not an option in which students may pursue majors or minors in the College. Undergraduate Admission Admission to KU All students applying for admission must send high school and college transcripts to the Office of Admissions. Unless they are college transfer students with at least 24 hours of credit, prospective students must send ACT or SAT scores to the Office of Admissions. Prospective first-year students should be aware that KU has qualified admission requirements that all new first-year students must meet to be admitted. Consult the Office of Admissions for application deadlines and specific admission requirements. Visit the International Support Services for information about international admissions. Students considering transferring to KU may see how their college-level course work will transfer on the Office of Admissions website. Admission to the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Admission to the College is a different process from admission to a major field. Some CLAS departments have admission requirements. See individual department/program sections for departmental admission requirements. Requirements to Select B.G.S. Liberal Arts and Sciences Degree Option CLAS Bachelor of General Studies (BGS) General Education Requirements General Education provides opportunities for the development of core skills, critical inquiry, integrated knowledge, an appreciation of diversity, contemporary issues, and social responsibility. B.G.S. Liberal Arts and Sciences Degree Option Requirements The Bachelor of General Studies degree has two distinct options and requires, in addition to completion of the KU Core*, either: Option A. Completion of the requirements of a single BGS major AND a secondary field of academic study study (a second degree offered by CLAS or other school, a second CLAS major or co-major, a minor offered by CLAS or another school, or two certificates offered by CLAS or another school); completion of an approved career preparation course (minimum 3 credit hours total). A list of currently approved courses can be found here. OR Option B. Completion of the B.G.S. in Liberal Arts and Sciences, which is also offered as an online degree completion program. This degree program requires: Liberal Arts and Sciences Breadth Requirement. Satisfied by the completion of a course (with a minimum of 2 credit hours) in 15 unique departments/programs within the College or School of the Arts (as determined by course prefix). Courses fulfilling this requirement may also contribute to the KU Core and other requirements. World Language and Culture. 2 courses (each with 3 credit hours or more) in a single world language, or proof of two-semester proficiency in a language other than English, OR Completion of 3 courses (each with 3 credit hours or more) designated as KU Core Goal 4.2 (AE42), world culture (W), or non-Western culture (NW); or language areas, beyond the KU Core. This may include a variety of areas, languages, and cultures. Additional Natural Sciences and Mathematics. Satisfied by the completion of two additional courses from the natural sciences (requirement code N) and/or mathematics (MATH prefix courses) beyond the KU Core. NOTE: Option B, the BGS in Liberal Arts and Sciences is not an option in which students may pursue a major or minor. *While Goal 6 of the KU Core can be completed using a course from another major department (prerequisites permitting), LA&S 494: Senior Seminar in Liberal Arts is an approved Goal 6 course that has been developed for students pursuing the Liberal Arts and Sciences BGS degree. Minimum hour and grade-point average standards (all CLAS degrees) 120 credit hours 45 junior/senior credit hours (numbered 300 or above, 30 of which must be taken in residence at KU) 2.0 minimum KU cumulative grade-point average Below is a sample 4-year plan for students pursuing the BGS in Liberal Arts & Sciences. To view the list of courses approved to fulfill KU Core Goals, please visit the KU Core website. Freshman Fall Hours Spring Hours Goal 2.1 Written Communication (1 of 2) 3 Goal 2.1 Written Communication (2 of 2) 3 Goal 1.2 Quantitative Reasoning 3 Goal 2.2 Communication 3 Goal 3 Humanities 3 World Language or Culture1 3-5 Goal 1.1 Critical Thinking 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 15 15-17 Sophomore Fall Hours Spring Hours Goal 3 Social Science 3 Goal 3 Natural Science 3 Goal 4.1 US Diversity 3 Goal 4.2 Global Awareness 3 Second Language or Culture1 3-5 Additional Natural Science and Math Beyond the KU Core2 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Culture or Elective1 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 15-17 15 Junior Fall Hours Spring Hours Additional Natural Science and Math Beyond the KU Core2 3 Goal 5 Social Responsibility and Ethics 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 BGS Career Course (BGSC) 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 15 15 Senior Fall Hours Spring Hours Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 LA&S 494 (Goal 6 Integration & Creativity)3 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 Second Area of Study/Elective/Degree/Junior-Senior Hours4 3 15 15 Total Hours 120-124 1 Satisfied by 2 courses (each with 3 credit hours or more) in a single world language, or proof of two-semester proficiency in a language other than English OR satisfied by completion of 3 courses (each with 3 credit hours or more) in world, non-Western culture (AE42, W, or NW designated courses), or language areas beyond the KU Core. This may include a variety of areas, languages, and cultures. 2 Additional Natural Sciences and Mathematics satisfied by the completion of two additional courses from the natural sciences (requirement code N) and/or mathematics (MATH prefix courses) beyond the KU Core. 3 LA&S 494 is not required for this degree to fulfill Goal 6, but is recommended as it is tailored specifically to students completing this degree program. 4 Hour requirements (incl. 45 jr/sr hrs) are typically met through KU core, degree, major, second area of study and/or elective hours. Students completing the BGS with a major must choose a secondary area of study. Individual degree mapping is done in partnership with your advisor. Please note: Additional requirement: Liberal Arts & Sciences Breadth Requirement. This is satisfied by the completion of a course (with a minimum of 2 credit hours) in 15 unique departments/programs within the College or School of the Arts (as determined by course prefix). Courses fulfilling this requirement may also contribute to the KU Core and other requirements. The Liberal Arts and Sciences BGS degree is not an option in which students may pursue a major or minor, however, undergraduate certificates may be pursued/completed. All students in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences are required to complete 120 total hours of which 45 hours must be at the Jr/Sr (300+) level. The same course cannot be used to fulfill more than one KU Core Goal. Graduation with Honors Undergraduates may earn honors upon graduation in 3 ways. The student may graduate with distinction or highest distinction, earn departmental honors in the major, or complete the University Honors Program. It is possible to earn honors in 1 of these areas, any combination of them, or all 3. The award of honors is noted on the student’s transcript and in the Commencement program. Distinction and highest distinction are noted on the diploma. However, students completing Option B - the BGS in Liberal Arts and Sciences are not eligible to pursue departmental honors, as this degree option does not include a major. Graduation with Distinction or Highest Distinction The top 10 percent of each year’s graduating class is designated as graduating with distinction. Of these, the top one-third is designated as graduating with highest distinction. To be eligible, students must have completed at least 60 credit hours, graded A through F, in residence at KU. See Required Work in Residence below. Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS | Maps The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Back to top Close this window Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. 2021-22 Entire Catalog All pages in the Academic Catalog