Skip to Content East Carolina University Office of the Registrar | Phone: 252.328.6524 East Carolina University May 31, 2022 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog Select a Catalog 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2014 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2014 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2012-2013 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2012-2013 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home The University Academic Advisement, Progression and Support Services Academic Regulations Admission and Readmission Colleges/Schools and Associated Programs Certificates, Degrees and other Undergraduate Programs NC Community College Transfers Courses Distance Education/ECU Online Expenses and Financial Assistance General Education Program Scholar, International, and Leadership Programs Student Affairs What’s New This Year? Academic Calendars Archived Catalogs Campus Map Faculty Emeriti Graduate Catalog University Policies HELP 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog Distance Education/ECU Online Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Distance Education Students Online Degree and Certificate Programs East Carolina University has been a leader in distance education in North Carolina for over seventy years. ECU recognized the potential of online learning and was one of the first universities in the nation to offer degrees entirely over the internet. ECU currently offers more than 100 degrees and certificate programs online in fields such as business, education, health care, and technology, among others. East Carolina University’s ECU Online distance education programs allow students to access their coursework twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. Online courses are taught by the same instructors that teach on-campus courses. Level of coursework, required readings, and examinations are the same for online and on-campus courses. Programs are designed with the student in mind. Instruction focuses on active participation and academic success. Distance Education Students Online learning is ideal for those concerned about balancing the rigors of an academic workload with employment or family obligations. Online courses are typically delivered using learning management systems selected for their ease of use for students and instructors. As with on-campus sections, syllabi and schedule of assignments for online courses become available to students within the first few days of the semester. Assignments and homework are submitted electronically. All necessary materials are available within the learning management system. When administered online, students take examinations during a prescribed timeframe. Proctors are available when necessary. In an online course, students and instructors communicate in discussion forums. Some courses include synchronous “chat” sessions so students and instructors may interact in real time about course material. Students also have the opportunity to work in groups where they benefit from the professional experiences of their peers. Students opting to complete their degrees using distance education typically increase their comfort level with online delivery of information. During this process, students strengthen self-discipline and increase organizational and time management skills. The format is ideal for giving students heightened independence in pursuit of higher education, while providing the mentorship traditionally associated with on-campus instruction. Although convenience and flexibility are emphasized in distance education coursework, the same amount of effort and participation is required for online and face-to-face courses. Information about the distance education programs offered at ECU can be found on the ECU Online website. Helpful links to information regarding admission, registration, tuition, and financial aid may also be found there. Academic regulations and policies, university calendars, and student services described in this catalog are applicable to all students, except where otherwise indicated. All students are required to have access to a computer. Some departments may require specific types (see Student Computer Requirements for details). From admission to graduation, a system of student support services is available to assist all distance/ECU Online students.The online support systems give distance education students access to resources without having to come to campus. A dedicated email address and a toll-free number staffed by student service specialists help students navigate the online resources available to them. They provide a single point of contact for distance education students. Contact the ECU Online student services area for assistance by emailing onlineservices@ecu.edu or calling 1-800-398-9275. Students enrolled in online distance education classes through ECU, or through UNC Online, in which proctored exams are required, have access to the ECU Proctoring Center. The university does not impose any proctoring fees on students enrolled in its distance education courses if they utilize the ECU proctoring center. However, students can select alternate proctoring sites/providers and may obtain a list of proctors located within their geographic area, along with any associated fees on the UNC Online Proctoring Services website. Students may incur charges with alternate providers if they choose to have their exams proctored at sites external to ECU. When students select alternate proctoring sites, the university does not impose any additional charges specifically related to verification of student identity. Online Degree and Certificate Programs Add-On Licensure Birth-Kindergarten Education Special Endorsement in Computer Education Undergraduate Degree-Completion Programs The programs listed below allow students with college credit to complete the last half of their degrees online. Applicable program concentrations are italicized. For more information, visit www.online.ecu.edu or email onlineservices@ecu.edu. Business Management, BSBA General Business, Human Resource Management, Management Management Information Systems, BSBA Management Information Systems Marketing, BSBA Marketing Supply Chain Management, BSBA Supply Chain Management Communication, BS Interpersonal/Organizational Education Birth-Kindergarten Teacher Education, BS Family and Consumer Sciences Education, BS Partnership Teach* Elementary Education, BS , Middle Grades Education, BS , Special Education, Adapted Curriculum, BS , Special Education, General Curriculum, BS Health Information Management, BS Health Services Management, BS Hospitality Management, BS Industrial Distribution and Logistics, BS Industrial Technology, BS Bioprocess Manufacturing, Distribution and Logistics, Health Information Technologies, Industrial Engineering Technology, Industrial Management, Information and Computer Technology Nursing, BSN BSN RN to BSN Nursing Option University Studies, BS ** * This partnership is a degree completion model designed for students transferring from a North Carolina community college. Interested students should contact the regional coordinator for their area to learn about specific application deadlines and requirements prior to applying to ECU. For more information, visit https://education.ecu.edu/partnership/. ** This is a tailored, interdisciplinary degree program. Note: East Carolina University offers a substantial number of graduate online degrees and certificate programs. For a complete list of programs, please see the Distance Education/ECU Online section of the current graduate catalog. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 East Carolina University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).