Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Music, M.M. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Master of Music and Master of Arts in Music Two graduate degrees in music are offered in the Department of Music: the Master of Music and the Master of Arts in Music. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. All applicants admitted into the music program enter in conditionally classified graduate standing. University requirements include: a baccalaureate from an accredited institution; a grade-point average of at least 2.5 in the last 60 semester units attempted; good standing at the last college attended; and a minimum TOEFL score of 560 (for international students). Each applicant must also present satisfactory entrance materials according to the area of specialization (performance, composition, music history/literature, education, piano pedagogy), and pass entrance exams in music theory and music history. A student whose audition is unsatisfactory or who fails to meet satisfactorily the entrance exam requirements shall be removed from “conditionally classified” status. Application Deadlines Information regarding deadlines for online applications to the M.A. and M.M. degrees is available at the department website. Graduate Standing - Classified A graduate student may apply for classified graduate standing upon attainment of the following prerequisites: (a) complete all requirements for conditionally classified standing as described above; (b) an undergraduate major in music (or the equivalent of a major; i.e., 29 undergraduate upper-division units in music appropriate to the student’s desired graduate emphasis) according to the student’s desired graduate emphasis with a minimum grade-point average of 3.0 in the major; and (c) satisfactorily complete MUS 500 . One objective of MUS 500 is the preparation of a study plan listing all courses required for completion of the degree. This study plan must receive the approval of the Area Coordinator of the student’s area of specialization, the Music Department graduate program adviser, and the Associate Vice President for Academic Programs. Opportunity is given to the student to remove any deficiencies in undergraduate-level preparation. Courses taken to satisfy deficiencies usually will not be included on the student’s study plan and thus will not count toward the master’s degree. Students who do not pass one or more of the entrance examinations shall take and complete specified coursework with a “B” (3.0) or higher or may retake the complete exam at its next administration. Writing skills will be assessed at entrance using the student’s entrance essay and the essay portion of the music history examination. Those who do not initially possess the expected proficiency will be required to achieve it before taking MUS 500 . This may include taking appropriate coursework stipulated by the Music Department. Writing proficiency will be assessed further in MUS 500 . Completion of MUS 500 with a “B” (3.0) or better satisfies the writing proficiency requirement. Prospective students must also pass entrance requirements in music theory and music history. The music theory requirement must be met by passing the entrance examination. The music history requirement must be met by passing the entrance examination. The music theory entrance requirement must be satisfied before a student may take coursework for the study plan. The music history entrance requirement must be satisfied before a student may take any 500-level music history seminar. Master of Music (30 UNITS) Applicants to the Master of Music program must have completed either a Bachelor of Music degree in performance or composition, or show evidence of equivalent rigorous training. For the entrance audition, applicants in performance must demonstrate proficiency equivalent to the 400 level, the level expected of a performance major in the Bachelor of Music program at the time of the senior recital; composition applicants must submit a portfolio of scores for examination by the theory-composition faculty. For admission to the programs in choral or instrumental conducting, applicants must show evidence of substantial conducting coursework at the undergraduate level plus practical experience. Further, to audition for entrance into the program, each choral applicant must demonstrate conducting proficiency with a mixed chorus and each instrumental applicant must demonstrate conducting proficiency with a band or orchestra. Choral applicants must also demonstrate basic vocal and keyboard proficiencies and vocal sight reading ability. Under exceptional circumstances, a videotape may be substituted for the live audition. Study Plan The Master of Music degree program requires that at least half of the graduate units be 500-level courses. MUS 500 must be taken within the first nine units. Students may choose to perform one or two recitals; those choosing one recital will also write a corollary essay. Under certain circumstances, and with departmental approval, a thesis may be substituted for the recital and written project. Graduate students in string performance are required to participate in orchestra every semester of residency. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).