Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advising Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog President’s Message Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Dear Titan Students: Your journey has just begun! We are so excited you chose to join our Titan family. As we welcome you to campus, we look forward to seeing your educational dreams take shape. For any amazing journey, a guidebook is a critical place to start and then refer to along the way. For our Titan family, the University Catalog will serve as your guidepost. So pause, take a breath and dig in to unpack this valuable resource filled with limitless information for you to explore and engage with along your academic journey. Check out some of the high-quality curriculum options, as well as professional opportunities for you to explore. Within this catalog, you can explore our eight colleges that offer 116 exceptional degree programs – 55 undergraduate and 61 graduate, including doctorates in both education and nursing practice – all with full accreditation. These programs have been created, nurtured and grown by administrators, faculty and staff who are singularly dedicated to providing you with immersive experiences that will both shape your dreams and empower you to achieve them. With that in mind, I encourage you to get to know your new campus home! A home that offers an almost unlimited set of opportunities for you to join in and experience as you discover your life-changing adventure. The more involved you become - the greater impact your Titan adventure will have on your future. And while I can’t predict which of the vast opportunities you might access on campus, I do know that if you engage your time here, it will be transformative, impactful and perhaps most importantly fun! And finally, be on the lookout for me and my wife, Julie, at an event or just out for a stroll. If you spot us, please stop and introduce yourselves. After all, you are the reason we are here. We know you come with your own set of incredible strengths – as a student who will become a future college graduate and Titan that positively impacts our world! The meaning behind your lifelong Titan title will only grow as you explore what it takes to achieve excellence in our communities, diversity in our workforce and social justice in our nation. It takes tenacity and grit; it takes a catalyst for change; it takes academic rigor and excellence; it takes service and servant leaders. In other words, it takes a Titan – a Titan just like you. Sincerely, Fram Virjee President Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).