Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2019-2020 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Speech-Language Pathology Services Credential in Language, Speech and Hearing Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Speech pathologists who wish to practice in the public school setting are required to obtain an M.A. degree in Communicative Disorders and the Speech-Language Pathology Services Credential in Language, Speech and Hearing (SLPSC), which they may declare as an objective when they apply for admission to the graduate program. The credential may also be declared as an objective at a later time as long as the student has maintained continuous enrollment in the graduate program. After the student leaves the graduate program, readmission is required in order to fulfill requirements for the credential. It is, therefore, strongly recommended that students complete the credential while working on the M.A. Degree unless they are absolutely certain that they will not later wish to work in the public schools. To obtain the SLPSC, students must earn the M.A. degree in Communicative Disorders. In addition, they must meet requirements that are somewhat more specific than those for the M.A. degree alone. These requirements are listed below. The required courses and clinical practice for the SLPSC must be completed with a grade-point average of 2.5 and at least a “C” (2.0) must be earned for each course and practicum. In the case of credit/no credit grades for certain clinical practicum courses, the student must earn credit. Students are required to complete clinical clock hours according to the requirements of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. A minimum of 100 of the 375 supervised clock hours must be completed at a school site or its equivalent. The hours must be supervised in all cases by persons holding the ASHA Certificate of Clinical Competence in Speech-Language Pathology and the appropriate state license. The supervisor of the public school practicum must also hold the Clinical Rehabilitative Services Credential or the SLPSC. If equivalences have been granted for a clinical practicum that was completed at another university, appropriate documentation of clinical clock hours completed at the other institution must be provided to the Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders so that it can be placed in the student’s clinical practicum file. Students must demonstrate reading and writing proficiency by obtaining a “C” (2.0) or better in COMD 500. Students must also pass the CBEST Exam or its equivalent prior to entering the credential program. The Credential Coordinator should be contacted by the students early in their program to review requirements and give further information on the requirements for the credential. Academic and Clinical Practicum Requirements Undergraduate courses from related areas: PSYC 361 - Developmental Psychology (3) SPED 371 - Exceptional Individual (3) M.A. Degree and Graduate-Level Courses in Communicative Disorders The following courses are required for the M.A. degree and SLPSC. COMD 404 - Communication Development/Disorders in Children from Culturally/Linguistically/Diverse Backgrounds (3) COMD 500 - Research in Communication Sciences and Disorders (3) COMD 501 - Seminar in Speech-Language Pathology (1) COMD 542 - Neurologic and Clinical Aspects of Speech, Language and Cognition (3) COMD 543 - Seminar in Dysphagia (3) COMD 571 - Seminar in Fluency Disorders (3) COMD 573 - Seminar in Voice Disorders (3) COMD 574 - Seminar in Phonological Disorders (3) COMD 576 - Seminar in Augmentative and Alternative Communication (3) COMD 577 - Seminar in Child Language Disorders (3) Clinical Practicum Requirements COMD 548 - Clinical Practicum: Speech and Language Disorders in Children (3) COMD 585 - Aural Rehabilitation Practicum (1) COMD 589A - Public School Practicum in Communicative Disorders (4) COMD 558A - Clinical Practicum: Speech and Language Disorders in Adults (3) COMD 558C - Clinical Practicum: Communicative Disorders and Differences in Individuals from Diverse Backgrounds (3) COMD 559A - Advanced Clinical Practicum: Communicative Disorders (3) Electives (6 units) COMD 544 - Seminar in Neurogenic Speech, Language and Cognitive Disorders (3) COMD 554 - Seminar in Multicultural Issues in Communicative Disorders (3) COMD 564 - Autism Spectrum Disorders in Speech-Language Pathology (3) HCOM 597 - Directed Graduate Research (3) COMD 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).