Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in American Indian Studies Minor Select a section... Overview Minor Requirements Contact Information Flor Romero-De-Slowing, Academic Adviser II 3230 Pearson Hall amin.las.iastate.edu/ fslowing@iastate.edu 515-294-8988 Alissa M. Whitmore, Academic Adviser II 3220 Pearson Hall whitmore@iastate.edu 515-294-7570 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Program: American Indian Studies American Indian Studies Minor American Indian Studies is a cross-disciplinary minor in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences that allows students to learn more about the contemporary and historical realities of native communities in North America, to appreciate the variety of native cultures and experiences, and to be prepared for an attentive lifelong learning experience in a diverse world. Courses focus on critical thinking and the application of knowledge in complex, diverse situations. Courses in American Indian Studies thus not only provide knowledge on specific native issues, but also prepare students for careers and further studies in fields such as community development and planning, social work, law, sociology, education, history, anthropology, agriculture, resource extraction, literature, policy, engineering, or environmental issues. Today, 80% of American Indians live outside of reservation communities. American Indian Studies students will gain the knowledge and skills they need for living and working with, in, and around native communities and people who live everywhere in North America, and, increasingly, the world. For students who are interested in deeper knowledge on the issues, a major can be pursued through the Interdisciplinary Studies major in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Faculty members also are available to provide expertise to graduate students working on specific issues that involve American Indian themes. Most American Indian Studies courses meet the university-wide U.S. Diversity requirement. The minor in American Indian Studies is 15 credits and includes: AM IN 210 Introduction to American Indian Studies 3 And 12 additional credits of AM IN coursework, of which at least 9 credits need to be 300-level courses or above. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Coursework will be established in consultation with the program director through the Curriculum Change Form. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.