Skip to Content Colleges & Schools Directory Offices Maps Calendars Libraries Mobile UT Direct Search Catalog About UT Academics Athletics Campus Life Community Engagement Research Print / Download Options Navigation Introduction The University School of Undergraduate Studies School of Architecture General Information Admission and Registration Academic Policies and Procedures Graduation Degrees and Programs Minor and Certificate Programs Courses School of Architecture Faculty Red McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication College of Education Cockrell School of Engineering College of Fine Arts John A. and Katherine G. Jackson School of Geosciences School of Information College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences School of Nursing College of Pharmacy Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs Steve Hicks School of Social Work Appendix A: Texas Common Course Numbering System Appendix B: Course Abbreviations Index Introduction The University School of Undergraduate Studies School of Architecture General Information Admission and Registration Academic Policies and Procedures Graduation Degrees and Programs Minor and Certificate Programs Courses School of Architecture Faculty Red McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication College of Education Cockrell School of Engineering College of Fine Arts John A. and Katherine G. Jackson School of Geosciences School of Information College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences School of Nursing College of Pharmacy Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs Steve Hicks School of Social Work Appendix A: Texas Common Course Numbering System Appendix B: Course Abbreviations Index Catalogs > Undergraduate > School of Architecture > Minor and Certificate Programs Minor and Certificate Programs Minor The transcript-recognized undergraduate academic minor must be completed in conjunction with an undergraduate degree at The University of Texas at Austin. For more information regarding the requirements for achieving a minor, including a comprehensive list of minors, please visit the Minor and Certificate Programs section of the Undergraduate Catalog. The Architectural History Minor The Architectural History Minor is designed to provide a foundation in architectural history concepts for students outside of the School of Architecture. Any undergraduate outside of the School of Architecture with a University grade point average of at least 2.50 may take any course listed below, whether pursuing the Architectural History Minor or not. Students may obtain only one minor from the School of Architecture. Students who know they intend to complete the Architectural History minor should apply online at the earliest possible date; deadlines are March 1 for fall or summer, and October 1 for spring. To fulfill the Architectural History Minor students must complete 15 semester hours of coursework as described below. At least half of the coursework must be completed in residence at The University of Texas at Austin. All coursework must be taken on the letter-grade basis, and completed in conjunction with the students’ major requirements. Six hours must be upper-division. Registration for upper-division courses will require successful completion of 60 semester hours of coursework. Students pursuing the Architectural History Minor may choose from among the following courses: Requirements Hours Lower-division ARC 308 Architecture and Society 3 ARC 318K World Architecture: Origins to 1750 3 ARC 318L World Architecture: The Industrial Revolution to the Present 3 Upper-division All Architecture 342 courses (Architecture 342C through Architecture 342W) In addition to the above courses students also may count any unnumbered advanced architectural history topics courses (Architecture 368R) completed prior to Fall 2016. Appropriate architecture theory courses, such as Architecture 327C through Architecture 327U or Architecture 350R topics courses, may count toward the minor by petition. The Architectural Studies Minor The Architectural Studies Minor is designed to provide a foundation in architecture concepts for students in majors outside of the School of Architecture. Any undergraduate outside of the School of Architecture with a University grade point average of at least 2.50 may take any course listed below, whether pursuing the Architectural Studies Minor or not. Students may obtain only one minor from the School of Architecture. Students who know they intend to complete the Architectural Studies Minor should apply online at the earliest possible date; deadlines are March 1 for fall or summer, and October 1 for spring. To fulfill the Architectural Studies Minor, students must complete 15 semester hours of coursework as described below. At least half of the coursework must be completed in residence at The University of Texas at Austin. All coursework must be taken on the letter-grade basis, and completed in conjunction with the students’ major requirements. Six hours must be upper-division. Registration for upper-division courses will require successful completion of 60 semester hours of coursework. Please see the Course Schedule to determine if instructor permission is required. Students pursuing the Architectural Studies Minor may choose from among the following courses: Requirements Hours Lower-division ARC 308 Architecture and Society 3 ARC 318K World Architecture: Origins to 1750 3 ARC 318L World Architecture: The Industrial Revolution to the Present 3 Upper-division Architecture 327C through 327W courses Architecture 342C through 342W courses ARC 350R Topics in Design Theory (Topic 1, 2, 3 OR 4) 3 CRP 369K Principles of Physical Planning 3 In addition to the above courses, former architecture majors may use other architecture courses completed while in the School of Architecture toward their coursework for the Architectural Studies Minor. Unnumbered architecture topics courses (Architecture 350R and 368R) completed prior to Fall 2016 also may count. The Interior Design Minor The Interior Design Minor is designed to provide a foundation in interior design and architecture concepts for students outside of the School of Architecture. Any undergraduate outside of the School of Architecture with a University grade point average of at least 2.50 may take any course listed below, whether pursuing the Interior Design Minor or not. Students may obtain only one minor from the School of Architecture. Please see the Course Schedule to determine if instructor permission is required. Students who know they intend to complete the Interior Design minor should apply online at the earliest possible date; deadlines are March 1 for fall or summer, and October 1 for spring. To fulfill the Interior Design Minor students must complete 15 semester hours of coursework as described below. At least half of the coursework must be completed in residence at The University of Texas at Austin. All coursework must be taken on the letter-grade basis, and completed in conjunction with the students’ major requirements. Six hours must be upper-division. Registration for upper-division courses will require successful completion of 60 semester hours of coursework. Students pursuing the Interior Design Minor may choose from among the following courses: Requirements Hours Lower-division ARI 318K Interiors and Society 3 ARI 318M Interior Design History 3 ARC 308 Architecture and Society 3 ARC 318K World Architecture: Origins to 1750 3 ARC 318L World Architecture: The Industrial Revolution to the Present 3 Upper-division ARI 338 Designing for Human Behavior 3 ARI 368R Interior Design History II 3 Architectural Interior Design 342C through 342W courses Architecture 342C through 342W courses In addition to the above courses, former interior design majors may use other interior design and architecture courses completed while in the School of Architecture toward their coursework for the Interior Design Minor. Unnumbered interior design or architecture topics courses (Architectural Interior Design 350R or Architecture 350R) completed prior to Fall 2016 also may count. The Landscape Studies Minor The Landscape Studies Minor is designed to provide a foundation in landscape studies concepts for students outside of the School of Architecture. Any undergraduate outside of the School of Architecture with a University grade point average of at least 2.5 may take any course listed below, whether pursuing the Landscape Studies Minor or not. Students may obtain only one minor from the School of Architecture. Students who know they intend to complete the Landscape Studies minor should apply online at the earliest possible date; deadlines are March 1 for fall or summer, and October 1 for spring. To fulfill the Landscape Studies Minor students must complete 15 semester hours of coursework as described below. At least half of the coursework must be completed in residence at The University of Texas at Austin. All coursework must be taken on the letter-grade basis, and completed in conjunction with the students’ major requirements. Six hours must be upper-division. Registration for upper-division courses will require successful completion of 60 semester hours of coursework. Students pursuing the Landscape Studies Minor may choose from among the following courses: Requirements Hours Lower-division ARC 318K World Architecture: Origins to 1750 3 ARC 318L World Architecture: The Industrial Revolution to the Present 3 Upper-division ARC 327C Urban Design History, Theory, and Criticism 3 ARC 327R Topics in Architectural Theory (All ARC 327 courses in the series ARC 327C-W.) 3 ARC 327R Topics in Architectural Theory (Topic 6) 3 ARC 328Q Rendering and Animation for the Built Environment 3 ARC 342C Mexican Architecture and Urbanism: From Pre-Columbian to Contemporary 3 ARC 342R Topics in the History of Architecture (All ARC 342 courses in the series ARC 342C-W.) 3 LAR 341R Topics in Visual Communication (Topic 1: Rendering and Animation for the Built Environment) 3 LAR 342K History and Theories of Landscape Architecture I 3 LAR 342L History and Theories of Landscape Architecture II 3 LAR 342R Topics in Landscape Architectural History (Topic 1: Romes Gardens and Landscapes) 3 LAR 342R Topics in Landscape Architectural History (Topic 2: Professional Design Practice: Baroque Rome) 3 LAR 342R Topics in Landscape Architectural History (Topic 3: Representing Landscape and Architecture, 1500-2015) 3 LAR 346R Topics in Landscape Architectural Theory 3 LAR 347K Living Systems Design I 3 LAR 347L Living Systems Design II 3 In addition to the above courses students also may count any unnumbered advanced architectural history topics courses (Architecture 368R) and architectural theory courses (Architecture 350R) completed prior to Fall 2016. On this page The Architectural History Minor The Architectural Studies Minor The Interior Design Minor The Landscape Studies Minor What Starts Here Changes the World 2020-22 The University of Texas at Austin Print / Download Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF Catalogs 2020-2022 Undergraduate Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 2021-2022 General Information Catalog 2020-2022 Law School Catalog 2020-2021 Medical School Catalog Cancel