Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Nursing, Pre-Licensure, Accelerated Pathway, B.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (120 units) Bachelor of Science in Nursing The baccalaureate curriculum offers pre-licensure students and registered nurses with an associate degree in nursing (or its equivalent) an upper-division program leading to a Bachelor of Science degree with a major in nursing. The 120 units consist of a specific combination of prerequisites, general education, nursing and elective courses. Graduates are eligible for certification as public health nurses in the State of California. Once accepted into the program, students are required to have a clear criminal background check and other requirements. Pre-Licensure, Accelerated BSN Pathway The accelerated BSN pre-licensure pathway is for students who have already earned a bachelor’s degree in another field and who are not registered nurses (RN). This program will award students a second bachelor’s degree: a Bachelor of Science degree in Nursing (BSN). This program is approved by the California Board of Registered Nursing, and graduates of this program are eligible to test for their California RN license. Admission Requirements Admission criteria for the Accelerated B.S. in Nursing are posted on the School of Nursing website: nursing.fullerton.edu. Admission Procedures Students are accepted into the accelerated nursing program in the fall semester. The university sets deadlines for new applications. For current deadlines, see the Admissions website: http://www.fullerton.edu/admissions.htm. Submit a university application (available at csumentor.edu) and an official transcript of all previous college work to the Office of Admissions and Records Submit a CSUF School of Nursing Accelerated BSN application with all required documents Check with the School of Nursing website for application deadlines and required documents Once accepted into the program, students must submit all required current documents as listed on the School of Nursing website Participate in an on-campus interview upon request For more information on admission procedures, visit the School of Nursing website: nursing.fullerton.edu. Requirements for the Degree The following courses are required for the Accelerated B.S. in Nursing major: NURS 310 - Nursing Research/Evidence-Based Practice (3) NURS 321 - Health Assessment (3) NURS 321L - Health Assessment Professional Practice Laboratory (1) NURS 322 - Concepts of Professional Nursing (3) NURS 323 - Integrated Pathophysiology and Pharmacology (5) NURS 324 - Cultural Diversity in Health and Illness (1) NURS 402 - Population Health Nursing (3) NURS 402L - Population Health Nursing Lab (2) NURS 403 - Foundations of Nursing Practice (3) NURS 403L - Foundations of Nursing Practice Lab (3) NURS 404 - Mental Health Nursing (3) NURS 404L - Mental Health Nursing Lab (2) NURS 405 - Management of Medical Surgical Adult and Older Adult Clients (3) NURS 405L - Management of Medical-Surgical Adult and Older Adult Clients Laboratory (3) NURS 406 - Reproductive Health Nursing (2) NURS 406L - Reproductive Health Nursing Laboratory (2) NURS 407 - Child Health Nursing (2) NURS 407L - Child Health Nursing Lab (2) NURS 410 - Leadership/Management in Professional Nursing (3) NURS 410L - Leadership/Management in Professional Nursing Laboratory (2) NURS 411 - Management of the Adult with Complex Health Alterations (3) NURS 411L - Management of the Adult with Complex Health Alterations Laboratory (3) NURS 412L - Capstone Nursing Practicum (3) Total (63 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).