Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2021-2022 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] College of Engineering and Computer Science Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) “Our mission is simple. We want to educate engineers and computer scientists who will graduate with state-of-the art knowledge in their chosen field and are ready to embark on careers in industry and government, or proceed to acquire advanced degrees in their own or related fields. More and more of our graduates are also interested in being entrepreneurs, thanks to the success of so many young people on the West Coast who have become successful in creating wealth via technology.” Dean Susamma Barua College of Engineering and Computer Science Associate Dean Sang June Oh Assistant Dean Carlos Santana, Student Affairs Dean’s Office Computer Science 502 657-278-3362 College Website fullerton.edu/ecs The curricula of the College of Engineering and Computer Science are designed to prepare students for careers in engineering and computer science and for further study and specialization in graduate work. The faculty of the college is actively involved, not only in instruction and scholarship, but also in the advisement of students on topics relating to the planning of career and program goals. Cooperative education and internship programs are generally available. ENGINEERING - UNDECLARED The Engineering - Undeclared option is designed for students who are interested in pursuing an engineering education, but are undecided on a particular major within the College of Engineering and Computer Science. The college’s Student Success Center advisers will provide academic advising, help students explore their academic interests and guide students through the process of selecting and declaring a major. Students admitted as Engineering - Undeclared must declare a major before the beginning of the third semester. The option is open only to freshmen applicants and is not open to transfer applicants. Transfer applicants must choose a specific major and should apply to that major. ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT Courses are designated as EGMT in the class schedule. EGMT 545 - Foundations of System Engineering (3) EGMT 550 - Decision and Risk Analysis (3) EGMT 571 - Modern Product Design (3) EGMT 572 - Decision Based Design (3) EGMT 597 - Project (3) GENERAL ENGINEERING Courses are designated as EGGN in the class schedule. EGGN 100 - Introduction to Engineering (3) EGGN 122 - Early Research Experiences in Bioengineering and Biomedical Engineering (3) EGGN 205 - Digital Computation (3) EGGN 308 - Engineering Analysis (3) EGGN 340 - Energy: Technology, Security and the Future (3) EGGN 403 - Computer Methods in Numerical Analysis (3) EGGN 465A - New Venture Creation and Funding (3) EGGN 465B - New Venture Launch (3) EGGN 495 - Professional Practice (1-3) Programs Master of Science • Engineering Management, M.S. Civil and Environmental Engineering, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Civil Engineering, Architectural Engineering Emphasis, B.S. • Civil Engineering, B.S. Master of Science • Civil Engineering, Environmental Engineering Concentration, M.S. • Civil Engineering, M.S. • Environmental Engineering, M.S. (online only) Computer Engineering Program Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Computer Engineering, B.S. • Computer Engineering, Integrated B.S.-M.S. Master of Science • Computer Engineering, M.S. Computer Science, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Computer Science, B.S. • Computer Science, Cybersecurity Concentration, B.S. Master of Science • Computer Science, M.S. • Software Engineering, M.S. Non-Degree • Computer Science Minor Electrical Engineering, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Electrical Engineering, B.S. Master of Science • Electrical Engineering, M.S. • Electrical Engineering, Option in Systems Engineering, M.S.* Engineering Program Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Engineering, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Master of Science • Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).