Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advising Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog Academic Advising Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Academic Advising Policy Orientations The Purpose of General Education Courses Advising in the Major Titan Degree Audit College Advising Offices Academic Advising Center Undeclared Majors Planning a Major Program Change of Major, Degree or Credential Objective Student Success Centers/Teams Departmental Academic Advising Pre-Professional Programs Health Professions Teaching Careers Answers to Questions Cal State Fullerton Academic Advising Mission Statement “CSUF is committed to academic advising which is accessible, accurate, timely, and provides transparent information as a shared responsibility where the adviser and student are equally invested in academic excellence and steady progress toward graduation.” CSUF recognizes academic advising as a vital element in education and a key component in the timely facilitation of graduation for its students. It is the educational relationship between advisers and students that connects students with their campus, faculty and the global community in which they will live and work during their lifetime. Through the CSUF Titan Advisers Network and TitanNet, students and advisers work together to optimize time and resources while attending the university. The network can be accessed through the student portal, and advisers are available for one-on-one advising based on departmental hours. Academic Advising Policy CSUF Academic Policy (UPS 300.002) states that The responsibility for ensuring the availability of academic advising rests with each college dean. In order to ensure that all students receive the opportunities of appropriate advising, every student enrolled at Cal State Fullerton should declare a major as soon as possible after admission to the university. In any event, a major shall be declared prior to the completion of 60 semester units of coursework. All students shall confer with an academic adviser on a regular basis. All first-time freshmen must receive academic advising prior to registration for their first semester. Orientations All first-time freshmen must receive academic advising prior to registration for their first semester. This requirement shall be satisfied by attending Freshman Orientation. First-time freshmen who do not register for a Freshman Orientation session prior to the published deadline risk losing their fall admission. Visit fullerton.edu/orientation for more information. All incoming transfer students must complete a student orientation session prior to registration for their first semester. This requirement shall be satisfied by attending Transfer Student Orientation. This requirement is in addition to any college or departmental mandatory advising. Visit fullerton.edu/orientation for more information. The Purpose of General Education Courses General education provides the foundation of a university education. It is designed to give students a breadth of knowledge and understanding across the major disciplines of science, social science, arts and humanities. It also is designed to help students develop broadly applicable skills such as critical thinking and writing, enhance their capacity for lifelong learning, and strengthen their ability to contribute effectively within a culturally diverse society and interdependent global knowledge economy. The General Education program provides a common intellectual experience for all students regardless of their major; enhances their awareness of themselves in a complex universe, drawing upon multiple points of view; and helps to prepare them for full participation in professional and civic life. Through the thoughtful completion of the General Education program, students will acquire knowledge of diverse disciplinary perspectives, develop skills for analyzing new situations and problems, and gain both self-awareness and an understanding of their role in both local and global communities. The broad areas and learning goals of general education courses are presented in the catalog section “General Education .” All students are expected to consult with the Academic Advising Center (Gordon Hall 123B) for support in selecting general education courses that align with their academic goals and meet requirements for graduation. Visit fullerton.edu/undergraduate/general_education for information and resources. Major advising occurs in the college, and general education advising occurs in the Academic Advising Center. Students in the College of Business and Economics should note that the major advisers in their advising center also are trained and prepared to provide general education advising for their students only. Advising in the Major Students who have declared a major should consult with their departmental adviser on a regular basis for academic advising. Students who wish to explore the majors offered by a specific college should contact either the college advising office or the college dean’s office for referral to the department. Titan Degree Audit The Titan Degree Audit is the official advising tool for both students and academic advisers. The report provides information on student progress toward the completion of general education, major and other degree requirements. The document is used to confer degrees, and advisers are able to generate advising notes directly on the TDA. It is vital that students review their TDAs for accuracy on a regular basis, and it should be available during all advising sessions with each student’s adviser. Visit fullerton.edu/aac for instructions on accessing the TDA and the Titan Advisers Network. College Advising Offices Students who wish to explore undergraduate majors offered by a specific college should contact the appropriate college advising office. Note that the College of Education does not offer undergraduate programs; undergraduates seeking academic advising are encouraged to go to the Center for Careers in Teaching for assistance with course selection in preparation for teaching. Visit ed.fullerton.edu/cct for information. College of the Arts Student Success Center Visual Arts Center 280A 657-278-3256 College of Business and Economics Business Advising Center Mihaylo Hall 1201 657-278-2211 College of Communications Advising and Student Success Center College Park 650-26 657-278-7620 College of Engineering and Computer Science Student Success Center Computer Science Building 206 657-278-3362 College of Health and Human Development Student Success Center Education-Classroom Building 105 657-278-2294 College of Humanities and Social Sciences Humanities and Social Sciences Student Access Center Humanities-Social Sciences Building 112 657-278-2594 College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Opportunity Center for Science and Mathematics Students McCarthy Hall 488 657-278-2638 Academic Advising Center Gordon Hall 123B 657-278-3606 fullerton.edu/aac Academic advising is available, on a walk-in/virtual pop-in or appointment basis, to matriculated undergraduate students regarding the general education and graduation requirements and the policies and procedures associated with the student’s successful completion of those requirements. As the home for undeclared students, through its Major Exploration program, the center provides developmental advising and support for actively researching and exploring various majors. Through individual exploration and declaration appointments, Major Exploration events, and interactive workshops where students can prepare for registration and develop academic success plans, students are directly connected to their prospective majors. The Fullerton Finish and California Promise programs, available only to incoming students, are coordinated in the center as well. Information and services available in the center, and on its website, include academic workshops, tutorials, group advising, hours of operation and referrals to other on-campus student support programs. Students needing information about the implications of academic notice are required to complete the Notice Tutorial prior to visiting Academic Advising for in-depth advising and support through their Student Success Team. The Academic Advising Center, along with Retention Specialists from each college, support students on academic notice through a developmental, holistic approach to maximize a return to academic success through the RESET course on Canvas. Through this program, students identify their strengths while making individualized decisions about their academic plans. Students make adjustments to their course schedules using seven points of student support. Mandatory online tutorials, advising sessions with academic and faculty advisers, development of SMART (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, Time-Bound) goals, follow-up group advising sessions, and academic contracts become blueprints for returning to good academic standing. Disqualified students must complete the Disqualification Tutorial prior to meeting with a disqualification adviser and enrolling in Open University. All notice and disqualification advising must be preceded by students completing specific online tutorials hosted on the center’s website. Visit fullerton.edu/aac for information, announcements and additional resources. Undeclared Majors Students who have not selected a major are considered “undeclared” and are required by university policy to declare a major prior to the completion of 60 semester units of coursework. The Academic Advising Center is the home of the undeclared and provides a variety of resources and services to assist students in choosing an appropriate major. Through its Major Exploration program students can meet with an academic adviser for specialized advising in exploring the many majors on campus, and referral to the appropriate major or faculty adviser. The Major Exploration adviser will use the Titan Advisers Network to ensure the student is referred to the correct major adviser on campus. To encourage adherence to University Policy Statement 300.002, as part of the Major Exploration process, the adviser will work collaboratively with the students to develop an academic plan that connects their strengths, interests and abilities with their academic goals, while facilitating major declaration and graduation. Information about the various majors at Cal State Fullerton is available at fullerton.edu/aac. Planning a Major Program When students have selected a major, they should familiarize themselves with all the requirements that are specified in this catalog under their chosen degree program. They should make a tentative semester-by-semester plan for completing the requirements, including prerequisites, and discuss this plan with an adviser in the major. In addition to courses in the major department, related courses in other fields and supporting courses in basic skills may also be required. These should be included in the tentative semester-by-semester plan. Some departments require placement tests prior to enrolling in some classes (e.g., foreign languages, music and computer science). The times and places for such placement tests will be available by calling the college advising offices. Change of Major, Degree or Credential Objective To change a major, degree objective or credential objective, complete the required form at the Office of Registration and Records website (records.fullerton.edu/resources/majorminorform.php) for approval. Such a change is not official until the form has been approved. Student Success Centers/Teams The divisions of Academic and Student Affairs have collaborated to create Student Success Teams in each of the Cal State Fullerton colleges and in the Office of Graduate Studies. The teams are groups of advisers dedicated to improving student learning, increasing graduation rates, reducing time to degree and narrowing the achievement gap among underrepresented students. Each of the teams provides students with information on individual academic, career and personal development. They include a retention specialist who ensures freshmen and sophomores are making progress and succeeding in lower-division courses, a graduation specialist whose expertise is in supporting juniors and seniors nearing graduation; and college career specialists who are available to help students with career planning. Find Student Success Centers at success.fullerton.edu. Departmental Academic Advising An adviser in the major can provide information and suggestions, and can assist the student in finding the most desirable ways to meet the requirements for graduation and for the major or credential. It is the responsibility of the student to meet with his/her academic adviser regularly. According to University Policy Statement 300.002, “Advising is a process by which the university helps each enrolled student realize her/his potential.” The university recognizes this endeavor as a campuswide responsibility that demonstrably impacts the academic success of its valued students. Academic advising at CSUF currently uses a dual model of advising where students are supported in general education and graduation requirements with an emphasis on retention through the Academic Advising Center and Student Success Teams. Major advisers provide support in discipline-based courses, career opportunities, internships and student-involved research. Both areas encourage and further students’ desired outcome of timely graduation in their field of interest and the lifetime benefits of a liberal education. Upon admission to the university, students have the opportunity to meet with their respective faculty advisers and develop an academic plan for graduation. Moreover, students are educated on the importance of connecting with their major adviser to ensure degree efficiency is maintained. Faculty advisers share expert knowledge pertaining to their specific discipline and guide students in preparation for internships, career options and research opportunities. The final choice of courses and the responsibility for the program always lies with the student, but meeting with an adviser regularly is the basis for successfully completing the program and graduating on time. Undergraduate students who have not yet decided upon a major (undeclared students) will be advised in the Academic Advising Center. Students will meet with an academic adviser in Gordon Hall 123B and must bring their current Titan Degree Audit each time they meet. If students have transferred to Cal State Fullerton, the academic department advisers are able to offer better support if students provide lists of courses they have taken, their own copies of transcripts from colleges previously attended and a copy of their TDA. Pre-Professional Programs The academic programs of the university provide appropriate preparation for graduate work in a variety of fields. Students who have made tentative decisions about the institutions at which they may wish to pursue graduate work should consult the catalogs of those graduate colleges as they plan their undergraduate coursework. Students planning to pursue graduate work should supplement their undergraduate plan of study by completing course requirements at major graduate colleges. The university offers a number of professional programs through the master’s degree, DNP and Ed.D. These include programs in the fine arts, business administration, communications, counseling, education, engineering, microbiology, psychology, kinesiology, public health, public administration, social work, speech pathology-audiology and others. Students interested in preparing for professional careers in these areas, either here or at other educational institutions, are encouraged to seek assistance and guidance from faculty members in these fields. Pre-Law Preparation It is recommended that prospective law students prepare themselves in such fields as English, American history, economics, philosophy, political science (particularly the history and development of English and American political institutions) and such undergraduate courses as judicial process, administrative law, constitutional law and international law, philosophy (particularly ethics and logic), business administration, anthropology, psychology and sociology. A distribution of course sequences among the social sciences, natural sciences and humanities is desirable. Students interested in becoming lawyers should contact the pre-law adviser in the Division of Politics, Administration and Justice. Some faculty members in the College of Business and Economics and the departments of American Studies and History also can provide advice and assistance. Pre-Theological Students who are interested in pursuing careers in the ministry, the teaching of religion and associated fields should take some courses in religious studies, psychology, anthropology, sociology, philosophy, history, English, speech communication and a foreign language. Students desiring assistance and counseling regarding advanced work in religious studies or professional careers as rabbis, priests, ministers, etc., may seek help from faculty members in the Department of Religious Studies. Human Services Students who plan to seek employment in social work or human services should prepare themselves in the fields of human services, child and adolescent studies, psychology, sociology, anthropology, political science, economics, and research methods in the social sciences. Students who intend to enter a professional program following undergraduate training should learn about the specific prerequisites for admission to the graduate program of their choice. Ordinarily, a major in one of the social sciences and some additional work in at least several other social sciences are recommended. Students with interests in pursuing careers in the field of social work and social welfare should contact the Master of Social Work program for guidance and assistance. Health Professions Gordon Hall 223 657-278-3980 The Health Professions Advising Office is housed in the Office of Academic Programs at Cal State Fullerton. In the 50-plus years of its existence, the HPAO has assisted thousands of students in gaining admission to health professional schools. Past students have gained entry into Harvard University, Stanford University, Johns Hopkins University, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and the majority of UC campuses. The Health Professions Advising Office is well-situated to assist first-generation and underrepresented students in their successful matriculation into professional schools. CSUF was ranked No. 17 nationally in the number of Latino students graduating with bachelor’s degrees in health-related majors in 2014-15. From its original mission of preparing pre-medical students to become competitive applicants for medical school, the HPAO’s mandate has expanded in recent years to prepare, inform and advise CSUF students about the following careers: medicine (allopathic, osteopathic, podiatric), dentistry, pharmacy, optometry, physician assistant and veterinary medicine. Preparation for success begins early and continues throughout students’ academic careers at CSUF. Overseen by the Health Professions Committee, the HPAO fosters students’ success through its support of several pre-health student organizations, mock interview practice, personal statement reviews and full support through the professional school application process. The Health Professions Advising Office also offers the pre-health professions minor. The minor provides students who are non-science majors with a structured pathway to complete several prerequisite science courses, and offers science majors the opportunity to complete coursework in the social sciences, population health and cross-cultural studies. Through its community engagement initiatives, the HPAO has established early conditional acceptance (linkage) agreements with professional schools, including Lake Erie College of Medicine, Marshall B. Ketchum University, St. George’s University, American University of Antigua and Western University. Schedule an appointment today with the HPAO director at fullerton.edu/healthprofessions. Teaching Careers Students who plan to enter the teaching profession must prepare themselves by developing in-depth knowledge in the subject areas they plan to teach. Teachers of elementary and special education children must have a solid foundation of knowledge in all subjects taught in the elementary classroom. High school teachers must develop expertise in the subject named on their single subject credentials. Students are encouraged to seek advice early in their academic careers to plan a program of study that blends general education, major and subject matter preparation requirements, and prerequisites for admission to a credential program. The Center for Careers in Teaching provides information and advising for prospective teachers. Visit the Center for Careers in Teaching website at ed.fullerton.edu/cct or call 657-278-7130. Answers to Questions Topic Where To Go Location Telephone Academic Appeals Academic Appeals Office Langsdorf Hall 805 657-278-3836 Add or Drop a Class See Registration Guide Address Change Admissions/Registration and Records Service Center Langsdorf Hall 114 657-278-7601 Admissions/Applications Admissions/Registration and Records Service Center Langsdorf Hall 114 657-278-7601 Advising Undeclared Majors Academic Advising Center Gordon Hall 123B 657-278-3606 Advising Declared Majors Major Department Athletic Tickets Athletic Ticket Office Titan House 657-278-2783 Child Care Children’s Center Children’s Center 657-278-2961 Counseling, Personal Counseling and Psychological Services Student Health and Counseling, East Bldg. 657-278-3040 Counseling, Vocational Career Center Langsdorf Hall 208 657-278-3121 Degree Application/Diploma Orders Graduation Unit Langsdorf Hall 114 657-278-2300 Degree Evaluation, Undergraduate Disability Support Services Disability Support Services Office Gordon Hall 101 657-278-3117 Disqualification/Reinstatement Academic Advising Center Gordon Hall 123B 657-278-3606 Emergency Messages Vice President for Student Affairs Langsdorf Hall 805 657-278-3221 Employment, Business, Industry, Government Career Center Langsdorf Hall 208 657-278-3121 Employment, Educational Career Center Langsdorf Hall 208 657-278-3121 Employment, Minority Relations Career Center Langsdorf Hall 208 657-278-3121 Employment, Student (Part-Time) Career Center Langsdorf Hall 208 657-278-3121 Employment, Staff Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion College Park 700 657-278-2425 Enrollment Verification, Duplicate I.D. Card TitanCard Office Pollak Library 657-278-3555 Enrollment Verification, Fee Receipt Student Financial Services Gordon Hall 180 657-278-2495 Enrollment Verification, Letter Request Admissions/Registration and Records Service Center Langsdorf Hall 114 657-278-7601 Extension Class Information Extension Information and Registration College Park 100 657-278-2611 Evaluations/General Education Admissions/Registration and Records Service Center Langsdorf Hall 114 657-278-7601 Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Gordon Hall 146 657-278-3125 Graduate Studies Graduate Studies Office College Park 950 657-278-2618 Graduation Requirements (undergraduate) Graduation Unit Langsdorf Hall 114 657-278-2300 Health Insurance Titan Student Union Titan Student Union Lobby 657-278-2468 Housing Housing and Residential Engagement 1509 East Campus Drive 657-278-2168 Internships and Service-Learning Center for Internships and Community Engagement Langsdorf Hall 206 657-278-3746 International Students, Advising Major Department International Students, Permits to Register Extension and International Programs College Park 200 657-278-2787 Library Information Pollak Library Library Lobby 657-278-2633 Name Change Admissions/Registration and Records Service Center Langsdorf Hall 114 657-278-7601 New Student and Parent Programs New Student and Parent Programs Gordon Hall 178 657-278-2501 Organizations and Clubs Student Life and Leadership Titan Student Union 247 657-278-7622 Outreach Services Outreach, Recruitment and Orientation Gordon Hall 178 657-278-2501 Parking Fees Parking and Transportation Services Temporary 1400 657-278-3082 Parking Information Parking and Transportation Services Temporary 1400 657-278-3082 Parking Handicapped Disability Support Services Gordon Hall 101 657-278-3112 Readmission Admissions/Registration and Records Service Center Langsdorf Hall 114 657-278-7601 Records (Student) Admissions/Registration and Records Service Center Langsdorf Hall 114 657-278-7601 Residency Admissions/Registration and Records Service Center Langsdorf Hall 114 657-278-7601 Scholarships Financial Aid Office Gordon Hall 146 657-278-3125 Student Academic Services (EOP/SAA/Retention) Student Academic Services Office Gordon Hall 143 657-278-2288 Summer Sessions, Information Extension and International Programs College Park 100 657-278-2611 Test Information University Testing Center Gordon Hall 143 657-278-2288 Transcripts Admissions/Registration and Records Service Center Langsdorf Hall 114 657-278-7601 Transfer Services Transfer Services Center Langsdorf Hall 501B 657-278-3358 Tuition Fees Student Financial Services Gordon Hall 180 657-278-2495 Tutoring Intensive Learning Experience Gordon Hall 143 657-278-7236 Veterans Certification Veterans Resource Center Gordon Hall 244 657-278-2373 Veterans Student Services Veterans Resource Center Gordon Hall 244 657-278-8660 WoMen’s Center WoMen’s Center/Adult Reentry Center Gordon Hall 205 657-278-3928 Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).