Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Business Administration, Finance Concentration, M.B.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Master of Business Adminstration (39-42 UNITS) The Mihaylo College of Business and Economics holds dual accreditation in Business Administration and Accounting from AACSB International, the premier accrediting body for university-level business programs in the world. We are the only university in Orange County, and one of five in California, to hold this prestigious level of dual accreditation. Our accreditation guarantees that students receive a high quality education, delivered by the most qualified faculty, all from a college that has met the highest standards in business education. Depending on personal and professional commitments, students may earn their MBA on a full- or part-time basis. Classes are offered during the late afternoon and evenings, and students may complete the program at either the main campus in Fullerton or at the CSUF Irvine Campus. Admission Admission into the MBA program is competitive and decisions are based on the holistic assessment of each candidate’s academic and personal/professional background. Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants will be evaluated based on the following: a satisfactory score on the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT). Students should score in the top 50 percent on the verbal, quantitative and analytical writing areas. GRE/GMAT might be waived based on the waiver policy; a minimum TOEFL score of 570 on the paper exam, or 90 on the internet based (iBT) is required1; and a recommendation from the MBA Admissions Committee based upon a review of the above requirements, the student’s “Statement of Purpose” and prior work experience. Additional coursework may be required of admitted students who holistically satisfy the criteria but are weak in one of the above areas. GRE/GMAT Waiver Policy FEMBA program: For those with 7 or more years of professional full-time work experience: A GMAT or GRE score report is not required Applicants may opt to submit a current score as part of the application if they wish The Admissions Committee may request a score report as additional information to more thoroughly assess an applicant’s quantitative and analytical abilities. For those with less than 7 years of professional full-time work experience: A GMAT/GRE exam is required A waiver may be considered for those applicants who can show through their academic and professional work experience a high level of quantitative and analytical skill and ability necessary for program success. Eligibility: Hold a quantitative-based master’s degrees or a terminal degree (MD, PhD, JD, DO) from an accredited school. For FLEX MBA program: The GRE/GMAT exam is required of all program applicants. However, a waiver may be considered for those applicants who can show through their academic and professional work experience a high level of quantitative and analytical skill and ability necessary for program success. GMAT Waiver Eligibility: Option 1: Hold a quantitative-based master’s degrees or a terminal degree (MD, PhD, JD, DO) from an accredited school. Option 2: At least 7 years of professional work experience AND an undergraduate degree that includes extensive quantitative coursework with at least a B average. Option 3: Official documentation of expired GMAT or GRE scores that meet/exceed the program target. GMAT: At least 35th percentile on the Quantitative portion and a total score of at least 550. GRE: At least 35th percentile on the quantitative section and total score of 300. Additional Information 1 For international students Proficiency Requirements All newly admitted students must demonstrate proficiency in calculus and statistics, either at the time of admission or within their first year of study. The technical courses listed below, or equivalent coursework, must be completed with a “C” (2.0) or better: MATH 135 - Business Calculus (3) ISDS 361A - Business Analytics I (3) or ISDS 513 - Statistical Analysis (3) Study Plan Students with a bachelor’s degree in Business Administration may be able to complete the program with a minimum of 39 units of adviser-approved coursework. However, students with little or no recent coursework in Business Administration may require 42 total units of advisor-approved coursework. Students selecting the International Business concentration must complete a minimum of 36 units, up to 48 units of adviser-approved coursework. A minimum 3.0 GPA (“B”) is required in study plan courses and overall applicable coursework. A minimum 3.0 GPA (“B”) is required in study plan courses and overall applicable coursework. .Any study plan course with a grade lower than “C” (2.0) must be repeated and passed with a “C” (2.0) or better. Business Core (18-21 units) The M.B.A. program at CSUF presumes that all students demonstrate proficiency in the topics covered by the following business core, which consist of 18-21 units of coursework. These courses must be at the 500 level. All specific required courses are determined by faculty advisers within the Mihaylo College of Business and Economics, who make decisions about core coursework equivalency. Based on a student’s previous coursework, faculty advisers may waive a maximum of 3 units of required core. If additional required core coursework is found to be equivalent, MCBE faculty advisers may approve a substitution of a 500-level course in the same discipline. Consideration for equivalency may only be provided if the proposed equivalent courses are no more than seven years old and the student has achieved a “C” (2.0) or better with an overall GPA of 3.0 (“B”). Each student in the M.B.A. program must complete an adviser-approved study plan. The Business Core courses are: ACCT 510 - Financial Accounting (3) * or ACCT 511 - Seminar in Managerial Accounting (3) * ECON 515 - Microeconomic Perspective for Managers (3) * or ECON 521 - Macroeconomic Perspective for Managers (3) * FIN 517 - Managerial Finance (3) ISDS 514 - Decision Models for Business and Economics (3) MGMT 516 - Operations Management (3) MGMT 524 - Seminar in Organizational Behavior and Administration (3) MKTG 519 - Marketing Management (3) Additional Information * Students must get approval from Mihaylo Graduate Programs on which of these courses to take Finance Concentration Required Course (3 units) FIN 541 - Seminar in Investment Management (3) Electives (15 units) Select five additional Finance courses, of which no more than 6 units can be at the 400-level. All courses must be approved by the Finance Department chair or their designee. Capstone Experience (3 units) BUAD 591 - Business Strategy Capstone (3) Students must pass the individual project in BUAD 591 and complete the course with a “B” (3.0) or better. In exceptional cases, a thesis (BUAD 598 ) may serve as an option. See the graduate adviser for details. Total (39-42 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).