Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Civil Engineering, Environmental Engineering Concentration, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) Master of Science in Civil Engineering The Master of Science degree in Civil Engineering is intended to meet the needs of students who wish to prepare for careers in areas such as construction and project management, design and analysis of complex systems (including structures, such as tall buildings and bridges), environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, water resources engineering, consulting and research; as well as doctoral studies. The program provides advanced study within the area of civil engineering and allows students to select coursework, with adviser approval, in the areas of construction engineering and management, environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, structural engineering and water resources engineering. Admission Requirements Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, to qualify for admission with conditionally classified standing, applicants must meet the following departmental requirements: Minimum GPA of 2.5 for applicants graduated from domestic (U.S.) institutions with undergraduate degrees in engineering or computer science Minimum GPA of 2.5 for applicants graduated from ABET-accredited international institutions with undergraduate degrees in engineering or computer science Minimum GPA of 3.0 for applicants graduated from domestic (U.S.) institutions with undergraduate degrees other than engineering or computer science Minimum GPA of 3.0 for applicants with undergraduate degrees from non-ABET accredited international institutions Applicants meeting these requirements will be admitted to the graduate program in Civil Engineering and will advance to classified standing immediately after filing an adviser-approved study plan in the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department office. Students not meeting the above requirements may be admitted and will be required to take additional prerequisite coursework. Any student entering the M.S. degree program without a B.S. in Civil Engineering will be required to complete deficiency courses prior to beginning coursework for the master’s degree. All deficiency courses must be completed before the final semester of coursework. Students who possess a bachelor’s degree from a postsecondary institution where English is not the principal language should submit a TOEFL/IELTS/PET score (minimum score: TOEFL Internet 80/Paper 550, IELTS 6.5 or PTE 58). The Civil and Environmental Engineering Department does not require the Graduate Record Exam (GRE). Application Deadlines Refer to: fullerton.edu/ecs for application information. Classified Standing Students will be advanced to classified standing and are eligible to take graduate courses for which they are qualified by meeting the following requirements. Complete all deficiency work specified by the graduate adviser with a “B-” (2.7) or better before starting graduate courses (unless approved by the chair); meet with an adviser prior to completing 13 units toward the M.S. degree at CSUF to develop a study plan, which must be approved by the department chair and Office of Graduate Studies; and fulfill the university writing requirement prior to completing nine units at CSUF toward the M.S. Degree by successfully completing one of the following: An upper-division writing requirement at any CSU campus An upper-division writing course from another university that is equivalent to a course satisfying the CSUF Upper-Division Writing Requirement. Equivalency must be certified by the department chair Cal State Fullerton Examination in Writing Proficiency (EWP) CSUF upper-division or graduate-level course that is certified as meeting the writing requirement and is approved by the department chair. A grade of “C” (2.0) or better is required. Study Plan The study plan consists of adviser-approved upper-division or graduate-level coursework, which must be completed with an overall grade-point average of at least 3.0. At least half the units required for the degree must be in approved graduate (500-level) courses. Required Courses (6 units) EGGN 403 and an additional three-unit, adviser-approved math-oriented course, or six units adviser-approved electives (for those focusing on environmental and construction areas). Course Tracks (15 units) Students are required to select a minimum of 15 units in Civil Engineering. These units may be 400- (subject to approval by the department chair) and 500-level courses and are selected according to each student’s area of interest. Coursework may focus on the following areas: Construction Engineering and Management; Geotechnical Engineering; Structural Engineering; and Water Resources Engineering. Upon graduation, students will receive a Master’s degree in Civil Engineering. Environmental Engineering track students will receive a Master’s degree in Civil Engineering with a concentration in Environmental Engineering. Other Courses (9 units) Elective units should be taken in Civil Engineering or a related engineering field and are subject to adviser approval. Culminating Experience Subject to approval by the department head, students may select one of the following three options for final review by a department committee: Comprehensive examination EGCE 598 - Thesis (1-6) EGCE 597 - Graduate Projects (1-6) Students enrolling in less than six units of Independent Study/Thesis/Project will be required to take a comprehensive examination. Students enrolling in six units of thesis or project may defend their thesis or project instead of taking a comprehensive exam. Concentration in Environmental Engineering Required Concentration Courses (15 units) EGCE 481 - Remediation of Contaminated Soil and Groundwater (3) EGCE 482 - Wastewater Treatment and Water Reclamation (3) Adviser-approved Environmental Engineering courses, which may include Thesis, Project or Independent Study (9) Electives (15 units) Adviser-approved electives must include a minimum of six units in non-Environmental Engineering courses. Students enrolling in less than six units of Independent Study/Thesis/Project will be required to take an oral comprehensive exam. Students enrolling in six units of thesis or project may defend their thesis or project instead of taking an oral comprehensive exam. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).