Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advising Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog College of Education Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) “The College of Education is committed to the preparation and professional development of innovative and transformative educators who advance just, equitable, and inclusive education. As a professional community of scholar-practitioners, we promote creativity, collaboration, and critical thinking as fundamental for student achievement and success in a diverse and interconnected world.” Dean Lisa Kirtman College of Education Associate Dean Kim Case Dean’s Office College Park 500 657-278-3411 College Website ed.fullerton.edu The College provides educators, leaders and professionals in various learning environments with the ability to apply critical and informed thinking to professional practice and problem-solving and to use these skills and attributes to become change agents in their schools, communities and other work places. The College prepares students to become active and critical thinkers in order to meet academic requirements related to university learning. The College of Education is organized into the following departments: Educational Leadership, Elementary and Bilingual Education, Literacy and Reading Education, Secondary Education and Special Education. In addition, there is an Instructional Design and Technology program for graduate students, and a Doctor of Education program. EDUCATION COURSES Courses are designated by department (EDAD, EDEL, EDSC, READ, SPED, IDT) unless the course is offered by the college instead of a department; then CEDU is used in the class schedule. CEDU 100 Introduction to Learning and Thinking in Science and Math (3) Educational Leadership, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Master of Science • Educational Leadership and Administration, M.S. • Higher Education, M.S. Doctor of Education • Educational Leadership, Community College Concentration, Ed.D. • Educational Leadership, P-12 Concentration, Ed.D. Certificate • Community College Studies Certificate • Improvement Science for Education Leaders Elementary and Bilingual Education, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Master of Science • Curriculum and Instruction Concentration, M.S. • Curriculum and Instruction, Early Childhood Education Concentration, M.S. • Curriculum and Instruction, Education for Social Justice Concentration, M.S. • Curriculum and Instruction, Math and Science Concentration, M.S. • Education, Bilingual/Bicultural Education Concentration, M.S.* • Educational Technology, M.S. Non-Degree • The Professional Teacher Preparation Program for the Multiple Subject (Elementary) Credential Program Certificate • Certificate of Educational Technology Integration Instructional Design and Technology Program Go to information for this department. Programs Master of Science • Instructional Design and Technology, M.S. Certificate • Certificate in Instructional Design Level 1 • Certificate in Instructional Design Level 2 Literacy and Reading Education, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Master of Science • Literacy and Reading Education, M.S. Non-Degree • Literacy Education Minor • Reading and Literacy Added Authorization • Reading and Literacy Leadership Specialist Credential Certificate • Postsecondary Literacy and Learning Certificate Secondary Education, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Master of Science • Transformative Teaching in Secondary Education, M.S. (online only) Non-Degree • Secondary Education, Intern Program • Secondary Education, Single Subject Credential Program Special Education, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Master of Science • Special Education, M.S. Non-Degree • Autism Added Authorization • Early Childhood Special Education Authorization • Early Childhood Special Education Credential • Mild/Moderate and Moderate/Severe Credential • Special Education University Internship Certificate • Resource Specialist Certificate of Competency Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).