Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Louisville.edu Search Catalog Go Donate Campuses Academic Catalogs | 2022-2023 Undergraduate Graduate Letter from the Dean Mission Statement of the University of Louisville History of the University Administration About the Graduate School Mission Statement of the Graduate School Application and Admission New Graduate Student Information General Policies, Procedures and Requirements Graduate Student Awards and Honors University Policies and Procedures Scholarships and University Fellowships Special Facilities and Services Residency Policy Institutional Accreditation and Membership Programs of Study Faculty Graduate Courses A-Z Graduate Catalog Archive Professional Home/ Graduate Print Options Graduate Catalog 2022-2023 The Graduate Catalog is applicable to students who enroll at the University beginning Summer 2022 through Spring 2023. The Graduate Catalog is the official listing of the policies governing graduate education at the University of Louisville. This catalog documents policies and procedures set by the Graduate Council and is updated each academic year to reflect changes and updates to policy. While every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication, the University of Louisville reserves the right to change programs of study, academic policies, academic requirements, fees, course information, procedures for the confirmation of degrees, or the announced academic calendar and related deadlines without prior notice. Revised May 2021. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award associate, bachelor, master, specialist, doctoral, and first-professional degrees (DMD, JD, MD). Questions about the accreditation of the University of Louisville may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC's website (sacscoc.org). The University of Louisville reserves the right to change programs of study, academic policies, academic requirements, fees, course information, procedures for the confirmation of degrees, or the announced academic calendar and related deadlines without prior notice. The provisions of this publication do not constitute an express or implied contract between the University of Louisville and any member of the student body, faculty, or general public. The University of Louisville is an equal-opportunity institution and does not discriminate against persons because of race, religion, sex, age, handicap, color, citizenship or national origin. If responses from the unit staff are unsatisfactory, inquiries or complaints about illegal discrimination including sexual harassment or handicap access can be made to Employee Relations and Compliance by calling (502) 852–6538. The Redbook is the official statement of the organizational structure, the rules of governance and procedures, and university-wide policies of the University of Louisville. If there is any conflict between the policies, procedures or other statements contained within this catalog, The Redbook shall govern. A copy of "The Redbook" is available electronically. Additional policies and information covering students can be found in the Student Handbook. Admission criteria for many of the colleges and schools are reviewed periodically. Students should contact their anticipated unit or the Graduate School, Graduate Admissions, for information on the requirements in effect at the time of admission. The University of Louisville is committed to and will provide equality of educational and employment opportunity for all persons regardless of race, sex, age, color, national origin, ethnicity, creed, religion, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity and expression, marital status, pregnancy or veteran status. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, the University of Louisville reserves the right to change programs of study, academic policies, academic requirements, fees, course information, procedures for the confirmation of degrees, or the announced academic calendar and related deadlines without prior notice. Copyright © 2022-2023, University of Louisville. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Cancel