Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Psychology, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (36 units) The degree program provides advanced coursework and research training in core areas of psychology. Completion of the M.A. can facilitate application to doctoral programs and provide skills important to careers in education, research, the health professions and industry. This program is not designed for students wishing to pursue a clinical/counseling career path. Admission to Graduate Standing - Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants must meet the following requirements: a 3.0 average in psychology coursework; approved lower-division equivalent courses in psychology; Introductory Psychology (e.g., PSYC 101 ) Introduction to Statistics in Psychology (e.g., PSYC 201 ) Research Methods in Psychology (e.g., PSYC 202 ) approved upper-division equivalent coursework, including classes in history of psychology (e.g., PSYC 408 ) with a “B-” (2.7) or better (if history of psychology is not completed prior to entering the program it may be completed during the program); and advanced statistics (e.g., PSYC 465 ) with a “B-” (2.7) or better, completed prior to entering or within the first semester. Also, four additional psychology classes completed from the areas below; classes must be from three different areas and one must be a lab class; Learning and Memory Cognition/Information Processing Sensation and Perception/Physiological/Biological Social/Personality Abnormal/Clinical Developmental satisfactory performance in the General (Verbal, Quantitative, Analytical) test of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE); three satisfactory letters of recommendation. One must be from a psychology professor; meet the University’s Writing Proficiency Requirement; and empirical research (outside of coursework) supervised by a professor. This may include independent study, honors thesis, etc. Admission to the program is based on competitive evaluation of qualifications and is at the sole discretion of the Psychology Department’s Graduate Studies Committee. New students are admitted to the Master of Arts program in the fall only. Both the university and department applications must be completed on time for full consideration. The university application must be submitted online. Departmental application forms may be obtained from psychology.fullerton.edu/academics/ma_prog.aspx. The deadline for submitting applications and all supporting materials is March 1. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified It may be possible for an applicant with minimal deficiencies in prerequisite requirements, but who is otherwise highly qualified, to be admitted conditionally to the program. Provisions for the removal of these deficiencies would be outlined as part of the conditional acceptance. Deficiencies must be removed prior to granting classified standing. For further information, consult the graduate program adviser. Study Plan The Master of Arts in Psychology requires approved graduate work, including the completion and acceptance by the department of a written thesis that has been defended orally. Each student, in consultation with the graduate coordinator, will develop a program of study. This program will be outlined on an official university study plan form and submitted to the department’s Graduate Studies Committee for review and approval. To be advanced to candidacy, students must receive a grade of “B-” (2.7) or better on all study plan courses and maintain a 3.0 grade point average overall. Requirements for the M.A. in Psychology include the following: 400-/500-Level Courses (18 units) PSYC 467 - Multivariate Statistics for Psychology (3) PSYC 500 - Issues and Perspectives in Psychological Research (3) PSYC 510 - Research Design (3) PSYC 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) PSYC 520T - Seminar: Advanced Topics in Psychological Research (3) (two seminars from this topics course) 400-/500-Level Content Courses (12-15 units) Complete four 400-/500-level psychology classes must be completed; one from the Quantitative category, and the remaining from at least two different categories: Applied Research Cognitive Social/Personality/Industrial Developmental Quantitative Sensory Processes/Physiological/Biological Additional Information A list of qualifying classes for each category is available from the psychology graduate office. Thesis (3-6 units) PSYC 598 - Thesis Research (3-6) Additional Information Students must complete PSYC 500 within their first semester in the program. Following university regulations, a maximum of five years is normally allowed for completing degree requirements. Total (36 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).