Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Management Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plan Undergraduate Minor Graduate Programs Contact Information Union Pacific Undergraduate Programs Office 1200 Gerdin Business Building ivybusiness.iastate.edu undergrad@iastate.edu 515-294-8300 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Business > Management Management is a broadly defined discipline encompassing a diverse set of activities that span all business functions. By ensuring the effective utilization of resources, sound management is critical to organizational success. Designed around learning critical conceptual, technical, and human skills, the management major is structured to prepare students to be successful organizational leaders. Whether taken as a stand-alone major or as a complement to another technical skill set, this skills-based approach ensures management majors have both the theoretical and practical background to excel in a wide range of organizational settings. Undergraduate Major in Management For undergraduate curriculum in business, major in management. The Department of Management and Entrepreneurship offers a major in management. Students will complete the general education requirements (including business foundation courses), supporting courses/major prerequisites, business core requirements for the Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degree, and 18 additional credits in the major. The required courses at the core of the management major build foundational managerial skills with broad applicability (e.g. leadership, conflict mitigation, and strategic-thinking skills). Elective courses provide additional contextual knowledge (e.g. managing in a family or international business) as well as complementary managerial skills (e.g. motivational, analytic, project management and sales skills), allowing students to accentuate their skill set in areas best aligned with their career objectives. Students will demonstrate awareness for the role of evidence, diversity, ethics and technology in business decision-making and the impact of external forces and global issues on organizations. Students will display the ability to think critically, to communicate effectively and to contribute constructively to effective team performance. Required courses in the major provide a variety of rich developmental experiences that include applied learning, case analysis, research projects, team-based active learning projects, and interaction with guest speakers, in addition to traditional classroom lectures and discussions. For more information on the undergraduate major in Management, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/management/ Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, undergraduate students majoring in Management will: Be effective communicators Be effective collaborators Be problem solvers Understand business concepts Recognize ethical and legal responsibilities to organizations Curriculum: In addition to the basic business degree requirements (https://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofbusiness/#curriculuminbusinesstext) the Management major requires students to take 18 credit hours in the Management area, including 12 credit hours of required core courses and 6 credit hours of electives. Required Courses (12 credits): MGMT 370 Management of Organizations 3 MGMT 422 Negotiation and Conflict Resolution 3 MGMT 470 Leadership and Change Management 3 MGMT 472 Management of Diversity 3 Elective Courses (6 credits): Select two courses from the following list: MGMT 381X Managing Family Businesses 3 MGMT 414 International Management 3 MGMT 471 Personnel and Human Resource Management 3 MGMT 473 Advanced Human Resource Management I 3 MGMT 481X Nonprofit Management * 3 MIS 340 Project Management 3 MKT 342 Foundation Of Personal Selling 3 MKT 367 Consultative Problem Solving 3 * Courses not offered on a regular basis. Students should consult with their academic advisor about terms of offering. The X designation after a course number indicates this is an experimental course offered by the Department. Although in an experimental phase, these courses are open for registration just the same as permanent courses listed in the course catalog and count as elective choices in the major. Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minors taken outside the Ivy College of Business. Management, B.S. Sample 4-Year Plan (Your plan may differ) Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits BUSAD 102 or 103 1 ECON 102 3 ECON 101 3 STAT 226 3 COM S 113 3 PHIL 230 3 ENGL 150 3 ACCT 284 3 MATH 150 3 Global/International Perspective@ 3 LIB 160 1 BUSAD 203 1 14 16 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits ACCT 285 3 SP CM 212 or 312 3 MGMT 371 3 ACCT 215 3 MATH 151 3 HUM/SOC SCI 3 ENGL 250 3 Business Core Course 3 Natural Science 3 General Elective 3 15 15 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits MGMT 370 3 MGMT 422 3 Business Core Courses 6 MGMT 472 3 US Diversity# 3 Business Core Courses 6 General Elective 3 General Elective 3 15 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits MGMT 470 3 MGMT 478* 3 MGMT Elective 3 MGMT Elective 3 HUM/SOC SCI 3 HUM/SOC SCI 3 Global/International Perspective@ 3 General Electives 5 ENGL 302 3 Business Core Course 3 18 14 Total Credits: 122 @ Courses in these requirements may also be used as Global Perspective. # US Diversity courses may be used to satisfy HUM/SOC SCI. * Requires completion of all core courses except MGMT 372 plus senior standing. Students must be admitted to the professional program in business to major in management. The requirements to enter the professional program are: 1. Completion of at least 30 credits, Foundation Courses, ENGL 150, and all ENGL 101/99 courses if required. 2. A minimum GPA of 2.50 either cumulative or in the Foundation Courses. Early admission is allowed for Honors-eligible students. (See your advisor for specific information) Graduation Requirements: 1. Grade of “C” or higher in at least 30 credits of Core and Major courses. 2. 42 credits of 300+ level courses from a four-year institution. 3. 50% of required Business courses must be earned at ISU. 4. At least 32 credits and the LAST 32 credits must be earned at ISU (exceptions for study abroad and internship may be requested). 5. 122 Credits minimum and a Cumulative GPA of at least 2.00 with no quality point deficiencies. 6. A grade of C or better in ENGL 250 required, and also in one other required ENGL course. 7. All 300-level and higher business credits must be earned at a four-year college. 8. Multiple business majors must have at least 15 distinct credits in each of the major requirements; when applicable, one course can be shared between business majors; see your advisor regarding multiple business degree requirements. Undergraduate Minor in Management The Department of Management and Entrepreneurship also offers a minor for non-Management majors in the Ivy College of Business. The minor requires 15 credits from an approved list of courses, including at least 6 credits in courses numbered 300 or above taken at Iowa State University with a grade of C or higher. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Students with declared majors have priority over students with declared minors in courses with space constraints. Required Courses (6 credits): MGMT 371 Organizational Behavior 3 MGMT 478 Strategic Management 3 Elective Courses (9 credits): Select nine credit hours from 300 or 400 level Management courses. Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minors taken outside the Ivy College of Business. For more information on the undergraduate minor in Management, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/zminors-and-certificates/ Graduate Programs The Department of Management and Entrepreneurship participates in the full-time and part-time Master of Business Administration (MBA) and in the PhD in Business and Technology programs. Master of Business Administration (MBA) The MBA is a 48-credit, non-thesis, non-creative component curriculum. Thirty of the 48 credits are core courses and the remaining 18 are graduate electives. Within the MBA program, students can obtain a specialization in Leadership. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, MBA students will: Demonstrate effective communication skills Effectively lead and work in diverse teams Critically solve business problems Integrate ethical and global perspectives in decision making For more information about the MBA program with a specialization in Leadership, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/mba-full-time-details/ Ph.D. in Business and Technology The doctoral specialization in management (MGMT) will prepare students to conduct and publish scholarly research in management, including the sub-fields of strategy, organizational behavior, and human resource management. In addition to curriculum in these core areas, students will also take courses in research methods and the closely-related area of entrepreneurship. The goal of this program is to prepare students to compete for tenure-track positions at leading research universities in the United States and abroad. As a doctoral candidate, students will learn how to conduct impactful research, and they are expected to develop a research pipeline and publish their work in top academic journals before entering the job market. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, PhD students will be able to: Understand and advance knowledge Create knowledge through original research Teach effectively in an institution of higher education For more information about the PhD program with a specialization in Management, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/phd/phd-entrepreneurship-and-management/ Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.