Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Nursing, Nurse Educator Concentration, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (42 UNITS) Master of Science in Nursing The Master of Science degree in Nursing (MS) prepares students for a specialty focus to expand their career options. The MS program is designed to foster interdisciplinary collaborative skills and independent functioning within a focused specialty area, called an MS concentration. Current MS concentrations are: Nursing Leadership, Nurse Anesthetist, School Nursing, Nurse Educator and Women’s Health Care. Within the Women’s Health Care concentration, students will choose an emphasis as either a nurse midwife or women’s health nurse practitioner. The Nursing Leadership, School Nursing and Women’s Health Care concentrations are flexible, allowing for either full-time or part-time study. The Nurse Anesthetist concentration follows a set full-time schedule. High quality resources, both on and off campus, are available for the MS concentrations. Application Deadlines The Graduate Nursing program accepts applications for the fall semester only. University Application The application period opens the previous Oct. 1, and closing date depends on enrollment across the campus. It is best to apply as soon as applications are open. Applications may be accessed online at: calstate.edu/apply. School of Nursing Application Deadlines The Nurse Anesthetist concentration accepts applications Nov. 1-30. All other concentrations have a priority deadline of Jan. 5. Applications received after that date will be considered on a space available basis until the program is full or the university closes admissions. Admission Requirements and Procedures School of Nursing admission requirements and application procedures vary by program and concentration. The School of Nursing and university application procedures can be found on the school’s website: nursing.fullerton.edu. Nurse Educator Concentration (42 units) The Nurse Educator concentration focuses on a synthesis of nursing and educational theory, research knowledge and instructional approaches to learning. Students obtain experience through supervised practice in utilizing theory and research in university, community college, institutional or community settings. Foundation or core courses in the MS/Nurse Educator program address theoretical concepts, ethical and legal aspects of decision-making, use of evidence-based practice, instructional design, development and evaluation of nursing curricula, and insight into vulnerable population issues. All students complete a project or thesis at the end of their studies. Clinical fieldwork in the concentration consists of supervised learning experiences working with preceptors in academic, institutional and community settings, either in academic areas, clinical education or community teaching programs. In order to experience the educator role, students are required to select a site where they have no direct reporting responsibility and to work under the supervision of a preceptor who also is not within a direct reporting relationship to the student in the workplace. Core Requirements (12 units) NURS 501 - Theoretical Perspectives for Nursing Practice (3) NURS 505A - Nursing Research and Evaluation for Practice (3) NURS 505B - Seminar in Nursing Research (3) NURS 507 - Advanced Decision Making: Nursing Issues Seminar (3) Concentration Requirements (26 units) NURS 508 - Advanced Nursing: Vulnerable Populations (3) NURS 510 - Development and Evaluation of Nursing Curricula (3) NURS 512 - Instructional Design in Nursing Education (3) NURS 516A - Nurse Educator Teaching Practicum (3) NURS 516B - Nurse Educator Clinical Practicum (3) NURS 517 - Assessment and Evaluation in Nursing Education (3) NURS 540 - Advanced Pathophysiology: Clinical Implications for Nurses (2) NURS 542 - Advanced Health Assessment (2) NURS 542L - Advanced Health Assessment Laboratory (1) NURS 552 - Advanced Pharmacology: Prescriptive Authority (3) Culminating Experience (4 units) NURS 597A - Project (2) NURS 597B - Project (2) or NURS 598A - Thesis (2) NURS 598B - Thesis (2) Total (42 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).