Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Kinesiology, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) At least 18 of the 30 units toward the graduate degree in Kinesiology must be 500 level. Once accepted into the program, each student must create an adviser-approved study plan before completing nine units of work. With adviser approval, up to nine units of 400/500-level coursework may be included on the study plan that was taken at another university or in another department at Cal State Fullerton. Admission Requirements Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants to the graduate program in Kinesiology, must submit to the Kinesiology graduate program: (1) transcripts showing completion of an undergraduate degree in Kinesiology (or equivalent field) with a grade-point average of at least 3.2 in upper-division major coursework; (2) Graduate Record Exam general test results with recommended minimum scores at or above the 50th percentile for Verbal and Quantitative and 3.5 for Analytical Writing; (3) a 500-word essay describing the applicant’s academic/professional interests, which also identifies a specific Advising Track(s) of interest and, where possible, specific faculty with whom they wish to work; and (4) two letters of recommendation, preferably from former faculty who can address their academic ability and potential for success in graduate school. Any student without an undergraduate degree in Kinesiology, Exercise Science, Physical Education, or a related field must complete a prescribed set of undergraduate coursework (usually about 12 units) with a gradepoint average of at least 3.0. Any student with a grade-point average deficiency must complete additional undergraduate coursework as specified by the Kinesiology graduate program adviser. Classified Standing Classified standing requires the development of a study plan (see below) approved by the faculty adviser, kinesiology graduate program adviser, and office of graduate studies. No more than nine units of graduate work taken before classification may be included on the study plan. Any changes to the study plan after classified standing is granted must be approved in advance, in writing, by the Kinesiology graduate program. Advancement to Candidacy Advancement to candidacy is attained by requesting a graduation check in the semester prior to graduation (see class schedule for deadlines) and receiving subsequent approval from the graduate studies adviser on the grad check completion review form, mailed by the Graduate Studies Office. Students not completing requirements by the graduation date specified on the original graduation check must contact the Graduate Studies Office. Graduate Study Plan The study plan must include KNES 508 and KNES 510 (which fulfills the graduate level writing requirement), and at least two advanced study courses, one in the student’s major academic area of interest and one in a minor or supporting academic area. The study plan also must include 15 units of electives selected from one of six advising tracks: clinical exercise science, fitness and health promotion, gerokinesiology, pedagogical studies, performance enhancement/sport psychology/sport studies, or special studies. Finally, the study plan must include one of three culminating experience options: a thesis, a project, or a comprehensive examination. Core Course Requirements (9 units) KNES 508 - Statistical Methods in Kinesiology (3) KNES 510 - Research Methods in Kinesiology (3) KNES 597 - Project (3) or KNES 598 - Thesis (3) or Comprehensive Examination* Additional Information *Students who select the Comprehensive Examination shall be required to complete an additional adviser-approved 500-level course in Kinesiology (3 units). Advising Track Requirements (21 units) The remaining 21 units of coursework are to be selected from one of the following six advisement tracks: Clinical Exercise Science; Fitness and Health Promotion; Gerokinesiology; Teacher Education/Pedagogical Studies; Sport Studies; Special Studies. Advanced study courses are required within each track, as well as recommended electives. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).