Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Search Results Select a section... Catalog Home > /search/ > Search Results LIB 160: Introduction to College Level Research (1-0) Cr. 1. F.S.SS. Prereq: For students placed in ENGL 101: Completion of ENGL 101 requirement. Eight-week course required for undergraduate degree. Provides a foundation for college level research. Students will develop the critical thinking skills necessary to successfully navigate the research process: developing a research question, searching strategically, evaluating sources, and using information ethically. To be taken as early as possible in the student's undergraduate career. See course descriptions of ENGL 150 and ENGL 250 for requirements related to LIB 160. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. Music http://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofliberalartsandsciences/music/ ...3 ENGL 150 recommends concurrent enrollment in LIB 160. LAS majors require a minimum of... Honors Program http://catalog.iastate.edu/interdisciplinaryprograms/undergraduategraduate/honorsprogram/ ...credits in their first term (Engl 250H, Lib 160, Honors 121) and may opt to... College of Human Sciences http://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofhumansciences/ ...Skills (10 cr.): ENGL 150 , ENGL 250 ; LIB 160 ; and 3 credits in oral communication... College of Liberal Arts and Sciences http://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofliberalartsandsciences/ ...State University Information Literacy Requirement (credit for LIB 160 Introduction to College Level Research ) Communication... Integrated Studio Arts http://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofdesign/integratedstudioarts/ ...Science; ENGL 150 (or test-out credit); LIB 160. Information on admission criteria is posted... School of Education http://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofhumansciences/schoolofeducation/ ...and 250 or an equivalent Library Skills: LIB 160 for 1 credit Other: HD FS... Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study http://catalog.iastate.edu/collegescurricula/ ...Communication Proficiency U.S. Diversity International Perspectives LIB 160 Introduction to College Level Research Minimum... Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.