Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in English Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plans Undergraduate Minor Graduate Programs Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > English UNDERGRADUATE STUDY Students in the undergraduate majors offered through the English department develop critical thinking, cultural awareness, effective communication, imagination, leadership, pedagogy, and agency as citizens. In a communication-rich and globally connected world, these skills play a crucial role in every profession. Studying in English expands and deepens individual engagement in the social, cultural, artistic, scientific, technical, and environmental work of society. Students interested in majoring in English can choose from this range of options: BA in English (with possible emphases in Literature, Creative Writing, Film, Literary Editing, or Rhetoric) BA with a double major in English and Education (for students seeking licensure in secondary education with an opportunity to earn an ESL endorsement as well) BS in English (by fulfilling BA in English requirements and taking 12 additional credits in natural science, social science, or mathematics) The Department of English also offers undergraduate majors in Speech Communication (involves emphasis on oral communication and civic discourse), Technical Communication (emphasis on producing workplace and civic documents, particularly in expert or technical subjects), and Linguistics. These diverse majors within English prepare students for careers that span law, medicine, theology, business, education, advocacy, event planning, management, marketing, publishing, nonprofit and government communication, public service, sales, and speech writing, library science, web design and communication consulting, editing, software documentation, usability and user experience, as well as scientific, technical, and environmental writing. Adding a major or minor in English to your field of study at Iowa State increases your communication, analytical, and critical thinking skills and will play a key role in your life as a student and in your life after graduation. BA/BS in English Learning Outcomes Students who major in English (with a BA or BS) will be able to analyze how texts and media reflect, shape, or challenge diverse intellectual, political, and/or cultural concerns in their eras and our own. understand, apply, analyze, synthesize, and evaluate content knowledge. Competencies include discipline-specific terms, history of the field, theories in the field, elements of criticism, and cultural knowledge. engage in critical thinking and effective communication by analyzing and interpreting information and ideas, conducting research, and making connections between and among divergent views. plan, prepare, present, and evaluate written, oral, visual, and electronic communication. These competencies include scholarly skills and tools; communication that is analytical, persuasive, and/or expressive; and peer and self-editing. Students who choose the English Education Emphasis will additionally be prepared to understand how learners grow and develop, valuing individual differences and cultural diversity to ensure inclusive learning environments. apply the content area’s central concepts and structures by using a variety of instructional strategies, including technology, to encourage student creativity, problem solving, and collaboration. use multiple methods of assessment to engage learners in their own growth, monitor learner progress, and guide the teacher’s and learner’s decision making. create instructional plans that support students in meeting rigorous learning goals by drawing upon the content area knowledge, curriculum, cross-disciplinary skills, and pedagogy. evaluate one’s pedagogy for the effects of choices and actions on others (learners, families, other professionals, and the community). BA and BS in English Requirements The English major offers a flexible degree that allows students to gain experience in fields such as literature, rhetoric, creative writing, English education, film, literary editing, and professional communication. The Undergraduate Program of Study is designed so that majors can experience the broad, diverse scope of English studies and configure a course plan to match their personal interests and professional goals. Suggested degree plans for several customizations are available; therefore, students may choose and combine courses in any way that meets the requirements for the degree. Students interested in the BA degree in English need to complete 36 credits, based on the table below. Students interested in the BS degree in English need to complete the BA requirements, plus 12 additional credits in linguistics, natural science, mathematics, social science, or selected courses in kinesiology. For those students seeking licensure in English education, the degree plan includes certain specific requirements indicated below by an asterisk (*). More information on specific teacher licensure requirements is available in the ISU Catalog or from the English Education Adviser, Pat Johnson. To graduate with a major in the English department and meet the university-wide Communication Proficiency Grade Requirement, a student must have earned credit for, or received a grade of at least a C in ENGL 150 Critical Thinking and Communication and ENGL 250 Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition completed and earned at least a C in one of the department’s advanced communication courses earned at least a C or higher in each of the ENGL courses applied to the ENGL major English majors transferring from other institutions must take at least 18 of their credits in English while at Iowa State. * Indicates English courses or groups required for students seeking teacher licensure Texts and Language: Choose 5 15 ENGL 201 Introduction to Literature ENGL 207 Introduction to Creative Writing ENGL 214 Introduction to Technical Communication ENGL 220 Descriptive English Grammar ENGL 225 Survey of British Literature to 1800 * ENGL 226 Survey of British Literature since 1800 * ENGL 227 Survey of American Literature to 1865 * ENGL 228 Survey of American Literature since 1865 * ENGL 260 Introduction to Literary Study * Advanced Communication: Choose 1 * 3 ENGL 302 Business Communication ENGL 303 Free-Lance Writing for Popular Magazines ENGL 304 Creative Writing: Fiction ENGL 305 Creative Writing: Nonfiction ENGL 306 Creative Writing: Poetry ENGL 308 Write Like a Woman ENGL 309 Proposal and Report Writing ENGL 313 Rhetorical Website Design ENGL 314 Technical Communication ENGL 315 Creative Writing: Screenplays ENGL 316 Creative Writing: Playwriting Critical Reading and Textual Analysis: Choose 2 6 ENGL 275 Analysis of Popular Culture Texts ENGL 310 Rhetorical Analysis * ENGL 339 Literary Theory and Criticism ENGL 350 Rhetorical Traditions ENGL 396 Teaching the Reading of Young Adult Literature * Choose 4: English Electives at the 200, 300, and 400 level (does not include ENGL 250) (Students seeking teacher licensure must take 219*, 220*, 354*, and 420*.) 12 Total Credits 36 All English majors must also complete the following requirements, which may overlap with the above requirements. Three credits in Literature of Social and Environmental Justice (340s, 352, 355, 389)* 3 Nine credits in English classes with a historical perspective* (choose from the following or any 340s, 350s, 360s, or 370s course) 9 ENGL 201 Introduction to Literature ENGL 225 Survey of British Literature to 1800 * ENGL 226 Survey of British Literature since 1800 ENGL 227 Survey of American Literature to 1865 ENGL 228 Survey of American Literature since 1865 * ENGL 237 Survey of Film History ENGL 260 Introduction to Literary Study ENGL 389 Postcolonial Literature ENGL 393 The History of Children's Literature ENGL 395A Study and Travel: Literature ENGL 420 History of the English Language * Fifteen credits of major requirements must be at the 300 level. 15 Nine credits of major requirements must be at the 400 level. 9 Teacher Licensure Courses Students seeking teacher licensure in Teacher Education should consult their advisor for a complete list of courses that meet major requirements and specialized licensure requirements (see Teacher Education section in this catalog). Among those licensure requirements are the following additional courses in English: ENGL 353 World Literature: Western Foundations through Renaissance * 3 ENGL 397 Practice and Theory of Teaching Writing in the Secondary Schools * 3 ENGL 494 Practice and Theory of Teaching Literature in the Secondary Schools * 3 ENGL 417 Student Teaching * arr † † Arranged with instructor. Additional course requirements outside English for students seeking teacher licensure include the following: EDUC 203 A Connected World: Technology for Learning, Creating, and Collaborating 1 EDUC 204 Social Foundations of Education in the United States: Secondary 3 EDUC 280A Pre-Student Teaching Experience 1-2 EDUC 303 Introduction to Educational Technology 1 EDUC 403 Intermediate Educational Technology 1 EDUC 395 Teaching Disciplinary Literacy 3 EDUC 406 Social Justice Education and Teaching: Secondary 3 EDUC 426 Principles of Secondary Education 3 SP ED 401 Teaching Secondary Students with Exceptionalities in General Education PSYCH 230 Developmental Psychology PSYCH 333 Educational Psychology HIST or POL S American History or Government SP CM 212 Fundamentals of Public Speaking or THTRE 358 Oral Interpretation EDUC 480E Pre-Student Teaching Experience III: English 1-2 Some of these courses taken to meet licensure requirements may also meet General Education requirements for the college. ESL Endorsement Requirements At Iowa State University, ESL is an add-on endorsement, which means that students need to be certified in another area and to take all basic teacher preparation courses. The growing number of English learners in our public schools make the ESL endorsement a useful addition to a teaching license. To add English as a Second Language, students must earn credits in the following courses. In some cases, relevant special topics courses or experimental courses may be substituted. Some courses have prerequisites. ENGL 219 Introduction to Linguistics 3 ENGL 220 Descriptive English Grammar 3 ENGL 425 Second Language Learning and Teaching 3 ENGL 322 Language and Society 3 or EDUC 420 Bilingualism & The Education of Latinx Youth or EDUC 520 Bilingualism & The Education of Latinx Youth ENGL 318 & ENGL 324 Introduction to ESL methods and materials and Introduction to Teaching ESL Literacy (ENGL/LING 318, ENGL/LING 324) 6 OR ENGL 324 & ENGL 325 Introduction to Teaching ESL Literacy and Teaching Methods for ESL Learners: Oral Communication Skills (ENGL/LING 324, ENGL/LING 325) 6 Practicum courses taken through the School of Education at ISU EDUC 280S Pre-Student Teaching Experience I: English as a Second Language (ESL) 1 EDUC 480S Pre-Student Teaching Experience III: English as a Second Language (ESL) 2 Students in all ISU majors must complete a three-credit course in U.S. diversity and a three-credit course in international perspectives. Check (http://www.registrar.iastate.edu/courses/div-ip-guide.html) for a list of approved courses. Discuss with your advisor how the two courses that you select can be applied to your graduation plan. English, B.A., B.S. Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 150 3 Social Science Choice 3 Humanities Choice 3 Natural Science Choice 3 Social Science Choice 6 Humanities Choice 3 World Language/Elective 4 Math Choice 3 LIB 160 1 World Language/Elective 4 17 16 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 250 3 Texts & Lang. Course 200-level (Group A)* 3 Texts & Lang. Course 200-level (Group A)* 3 Crit. Reading & Text. Analysis (Group B)* 3 Natural Science Group 3 Texts & Lang. Course 200-level (Group A)* 3 Texts & Lang. Course 200-level (Group A)* 3 Natural Science Choice 3 Humanities Choice 3 ENGL 340s/352 - US Diversity* 3 15 15 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL Advanced Communication (Group C)* 3 Crit. Reading & Text. Analysis (Group B)* 3 Texts & Lang. Course 200-level (Group A)* 3 ENGL Elective 400+ (Group D)* 3 ENGL Elective 300+ (Group D)* 3 Electives/Courses in Minor 6 Elective/Course for Minor 3 ENGL Elective 300+ (Group D)* 3 Humanities Choice 3 15 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 400+ (Group D)* 3 Electives 12 Electives 3 ENGL 400+ (Grp D) 3 Electives/Course for Minor 7 13 15 * See English Advisor for a list of courses suited to major groups A, B, C, & D and other distributed requirements that must be met. English, B.A. - English Education Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 150 (or waiver) 3 Science Choice 3 Humanities Choice 3 Humanities Choice 3 PSYCH 230 3 MATH 104, 105, MATH 150+, STAT 101, or STAT 104 3-4 POL S 111 3 World Language 102 or waiver 4 or American History selection EDUC 204 3 World Language 101 or waiver 4 LIB 160 1 16 17-18 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 220 3 Literature Survey – ENGL 225-228 3 ENGL 250 3 ENGL 396 3 Introduction to Literary Study – ENGL 201 or 260 3 Science Choice 3 Literature Survey – ENG 225–228 3 EDUC 203 1 Humanities or Social Science Choice 3 ENGL 219 3 SP CM 212 or THTRE 358 3 ENGL 310 or 339 3 Maintain 2.5+ GPA or SP CM 300+ course Apply to Teacher Education Program – Enroll in EDUC 280L .5 18 16.5 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits EDUC 406 3 EDUC 333 or PSYCH 333 3 ENGL 302-306 (Adv Comm) 3 Env/Soc Justice Literature elective – ENGL 340 Series 3 SP ED 401 3 ENGL 354 3 Literature Survey – ENGL 225-228 3 ENGL 397 3 EDUC 395 3 EDUC 280A 2 Science Choice 2 EDUC 403 1 EDUC 303 1 Apply to take English 494 18 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 494 3 ENGL 417E 8 ENGL 353 3 ENGL 420 3 EDUC 480E 2 EDUC 426 3 Apply for Student Teaching 14 8 English Minor Requirements The minor in English prepares students in any discipline for which communication activities are needed to succeed in their professions. Minors in English will complete 15 credits beyond ENGL 150 Critical Thinking and Communication and ENGL 250 Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition; ENGL 250 and additional courses require a grade of C or higher (not C-), 9 of which will be at the 300 or 400 levels. Twelve of these hours must be taken at Iowa State. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. GRADUATE STUDY The Department of English offers graduate work leading to three Master of Arts degrees, one Master of Fine Arts degree, two Doctor of Philosophy degrees, and one TESL/TEFL Certificate. Information on application requirements and procedures for all majors is available on the Graduate Studies “How To Apply” website. The MA in English degree program offers advanced study of literature, film, research, writing, and the teaching of reading. Students admitted to the MA in English choose between two areas of specialization: (1) Literature or (2) Literature and the Teaching of Reading. These tracks prepare students for a variety of career paths, including teaching at the secondary or college levels, publishing, research, administration, and work in nonprofit sectors. For individuals interested in pursuing research and 4-year university teaching, the specialization in Literature provides excellent pre-PhD preparation through this program’s small class sizes, research opportunities, and professionalization. The specialization in Literature and the Teaching of Reading is designed for licensed teachers who wish to take graduate literature courses and work toward a reading endorsement by taking three reading courses in Curriculum and Instruction. The MA in Rhetoric, Composition, and Professional Communication (RCPC) prepares students for careers as professional communicators, including careers in technical and business writing, web design, web usability, and technical editing. Graduates also are prepared to teach writing, including business and technical communication, at the postsecondary level. Students can choose to complete a thesis or one of two creative-component options. The MA in TESL/Applied Linguistics (TESL/AL) prepares students for careers in teaching English to non-native speakers of English, either in the U.S. or abroad. Students with MA degrees in TESL teach adults and younger learners in a wide variety of contexts, supervise language programs, work for testing organizations, and create language teaching materials. Students admitted to the degree program can choose among optional specializations: Computer-Assisted Language Learning (CALL), Language Assessment, English for Specific Purposes (ESP), Literacy, Literature in ESL, Teaching English to L1 Spanish Learners, and Corpus and Computational Linguistics. The MA in TESL/Applied Linguistics has a language requirement that may be fulfilled in a number of ways. Students whose native language is other than English are considered to have met the language requirement after satisfying the Graduate College English requirement. The Master of Arts (MA) degree programs require a minimum of 30 hours of graduate credit, including a final thesis or creative component (3 credits). The Master of Fine Arts (MFA) program in Creative Writing and Environment (CWE) cultivates in its students an interdisciplinary approach to research and writing. The program's unique design allows writers to develop a heightened environmental imagination that finds expression in quality, publishable works of fiction, nonfiction, poetry, and drama. The program is designed to prepare students for careers as writers, teachers, editors, and environmental educators. The MFA degree requires 54 hours of graduate credit: a core of creative writing and other English courses, a book-length thesis (6 credits), experiential environmental fieldwork (3 credits), and 12 credits in disciplines other than English (such as Landscape Architecture, Anthropology, or Environmental Science, among many others) relevant to an individual student's research interests and thesis project. The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Applied Linguistics and Technology (ALT) focuses on English language description, teaching, learning, and assessment, with particular emphasis on issues and practices related to technology: analysis of language using computational and corpus linguistic methods as well as the study of computer technology in English language teaching, learning, and assessment. The degree prepares students for a variety of academic appointments in departments of applied linguistics and English and for professional opportunities in research and development, international publishing, and government agencies in the U.S. and around the world where English is taught and used for specific educational, vocational, and professional purposes. Candidates are required to complete 72 hours of graduate credit including a dissertation, to meet a language requirement that may be fulfilled in a number of ways (students whose native language is other than English are considered to have met the language requirement after satisfying the Graduate College English requirement), and to pass a portfolio assessment, a preliminary examination (consisting of a dissertation proposal and pilot study and written response to questions about them), and an oral defense of the dissertation. The PhD in Rhetoric and Professional Communication (RPC) applies rhetorical theory to the practice of written, oral, and visual communication in professional communities (e.g., industry and science) and in public spaces that frame deliberation, controversy, and communal identity. The degree prepares graduates for academic positions in rhetoric, in multimodal composition, and in business, professional, and technical communication, as well as for work in the private and public sectors as professional communication specialists, editors, designers, and communication managers. Candidates are required to complete 72 hours of graduate credit, including a dissertation, and to pass a portfolio assessment, a preliminary examination, and an oral defense of the dissertation. A Graduate Certificate in Teaching English as a Second Language/Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TESL/TEFL) prepares students to teach English to non-native speakers of English either in the U.S. or abroad. It offers students grounding in the linguistic understanding of English and a flexible program of study with courses in teaching methodology, language assessment, and the use of technology to address students’ language needs. This 12-credit program has two prerequisites, one core requirement, and three graduate course electives. The department offers qualified graduate students an opportunity to gain professional experience through teaching and research assistantships, fieldwork and internships, and departmental research activities. Graduate teaching assistants are responsible for teaching, with faculty supervision, courses in ISUComm Foundation Courses, ISUComm Advanced Communication (business and technical communication), ISUComm Speech Communication, and English as a Second Language (ESL). Research assistants may be assigned to faculty members engaged in research projects. Various admissions awards are available as well: One or more Pearl Hogrefe Fellowships in Creative Writing, covering stipend and tuition, are awarded each year to outstanding graduate students; Freda Huncke Endowment Graduate Teaching Fellowships are awarded to select students each year; LAS Graduate Scholarships are awarded by the Liberal Arts & Sciences College; and the Janet Anderson-Hsieh Scholarship is awarded each year to one Applied Linguistics and Technology doctoral student. The English Department offers minors in each of its graduate programs. A graduate minor at the MA level requires 9 credits of English at the 500 or 600 level in the respective major (English, RCPC, TESL/AL). A graduate minor within the MFA program in Creative Writing and Environment requires an approved application and completion of 12 graduate credits of creative writing. A graduate minor at the PhD level requires 12 credits at the 500 or 600 level in the respective major (ALT or RPC). GRADUATE PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES MA in English Expand knowledge related to the study of literature and ﬁlm that includes a diversity of authors/directors, genres, theories, and cultural-historical contexts. Communicate research eﬀectively through oral and written presentations. Conduct independent scholarship in ways that consistently demonstrate ethical practice and professionalism. For graduate students who receive a teaching assistantship, develop strategies for the eﬀective teaching of undergraduate students. MA in Rhetoric, Composition, and Professional Communication The RCPC program combines the pedagogy focus of a degree in rhetoric and composition with the technical skill and practicality of a degree in professional communication. Upon graduation, students will demonstrate the ability to understand the interplay of rhetoric, composition, and professional communication in local and global contexts. analyze a rhetorical situation and develop communication that responds to it effectively and ethically. develop communication that helps build a socially just society. use communication to contribute to an affirming and inclusive classroom/workplace environment. apply the historical and theoretical understanding necessary to assess the use of specific communication technologies within complex organizations. combine verbal and visual communication skills to produce effective communication in contemporary organizations. Measures for evaluating a student’s success in meeting these objectives include achievement on coursework familiarity with useful and common software programs and technologies successful completion of a thesis or a creative-component project MA in TESL/Applied Linguistics Demonstrate independence, reflective practices, and professionalism in teaching and assessment of English as a second language. Demonstrate knowledge of and confidence with the use of computer applications relevant to English language teaching. Formulate important research questions for guiding investigations that contribute to theory and practice in one or more areas of applied linguistics. Carry out research in one area of applied linguistics that will increase understanding of English language teaching. Evaluate research in the field to identify its contribution to theory, research, and practice in applied linguistics. Communicate ideas, discoveries, and findings to others in a professional and creative manner. Collaborate with other professionals to create and investigate new knowledge, practices, and products for English language teaching. MFA in Creative Writing and Environment Demonstrate understanding of craft and professional practice through coursework, workshops, and completion of refined imaginative literary manuscripts in multiple genres. Identify, research, and examine—through coursework, fieldwork, and literary practice—the natural world and the environmental imagination. Broaden and deepen understanding of literary and theoretical traditions of the major genres and the methodologies of craft analysis and practice. Broaden and deepen understanding of the cultural and natural environment through significant coursework in environmental courses available at Iowa State University both within and beyond the MFA program and English department. Design, write, workshop, refine, and defend a significant body of publishable- or production-quality imaginative writing, including a full-length thesis manuscript, which demonstrates professional understanding and application of craft and technique, literary tradition, and the environmental imagination. Gain practical training and experience in creating and fostering a healthy literary community and sustaining a professional life in letters through teaching and research assistantships and internships, literary journal editorial internships and positions, as well as land stewardship, reading series, and other outreach opportunities. PhD in Applied Linguistics and Technology Demonstrate knowledge of and confidence with the use of computer applications relevant to teaching, learning, research, and assessment in applied linguistics. Design, implement, and evaluate algorithms for automating linguistic analysis tasks based on knowledge of natural language and speech processing programming. Formulate important research questions for guiding investigations that contribute to theory and practice in one or more areas of applied linguistics. Apply principles of research methodology to design data collection and analysis procedures to address research questions in at least one area of applied linguistics. Interpret and evaluate findings in view of their contribution to theory, research, and practice in the relevant area. Communicate ideas, discoveries, and findings to others in a professional and creative manner. Collaborate with other professionals to create and investigate new knowledge, practices, and products. Demonstrate independence and professionalism in teaching and research. PhD in Rhetoric and Professional Communication At the time of graduation, RPC students will demonstrate an ability to understand theories, research methods, and concepts in rhetoric, professional communication, and multimodal composition. apply these theories, research methods, and concepts in scholarly activity, including research and teaching. use a variety of technologies and media for scholarly research and for developing audience-centered communication. analyze, synthesize, and critique communication in a variety of organizational and public contexts. analyze, synthesize, and critique research related to rhetoric, professional communication, and multimodal composition. develop scholarship that makes a significant contribution to the field. develop communication that helps build a socially just society. Measures for evaluating a student’s success in meeting these objectives include display of an ability to develop a clear and cogent argument using relevant evidence in coursework annual reviews qualifying examination (i.e., portfolio assessment) preliminary exams (written and oral) completion and defense of a dissertation Graduate Certificate in TESL/TEFL Demonstrate growth in reflective practice and professionalism in English language teaching. Demonstrate metalinguistic knowledge of English structure and use. Evaluate research in the field to identify its contribution to English language teaching practice. Communicate and collaborate with others to achieve professional goals for English language teaching. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.