Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Health Coach Certificate Select a section... Overview Requirements Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Human Sciences > Health Coach Certificate Health Coach - Certificate The undergraduate health coach certificate provides a rigorous academic and theoretical background in three components of health (nutrition, exercise and motivational coaching) required to prepare workers for the challenges of being a health coach. The certificate provides additional credentials for students already pursuing a bachelor's degree in food science and human nutrition, kinesiology, or psychology. Students would be able to sit for the American Council on Exercise exam should they choose to do so. Any Iowa State University student may apply for the undergraduate health coach certificate. Students should contact their academic advisor to add the Health Coaching Certificate. The Health Coach certificate requires 23 credits: Note: Pre-requisites apply for all courses required in the health coach certificate. FS HN 265 Nutrition for Active and Healthy Lifestyles 3 FS HN 364 Nutrition and Prevention of Chronic Disease 3 or FS HN 365 Obesity and Health FS HN 361 Nutrition and Health Assessment 2 KIN 458 Principles of Fitness Assessment and Exercise Prescription 4 KIN 467 Exercise and Health: Behavior Change 3 PSYCH 422 Counseling Theories and Techniques 3 PSYCH 485 Health Psychology 3 FS HN 495 Practicum 2 or KIN 494A & KIN 494B Practicum in Motivational Interviewing for Health: Principles of Motivational Interviewing and Practicum in Motivational Interviewing for Health: Supervised Experience Total Credits 23 Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.