Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Environmental Studies Select a section... Overview Secondary Major Requirements Undergraduate Minor Contact Information Richard Williams 103 Bessey Hall envs.iastate.edu dickwms@iastate.edu 515-294-1070 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Environmental Studies Environmental Studies Interdepartmental Undergraduate Program Environmental Studies deals with the relationship and interactions between humans and the environment. Students in any college at ISU may elect to take a secondary major or minor in Environmental Studies. The curriculum is designed to give students an understanding of current and emerging environmental issues and an appreciation of different perspectives regarding these issues. Courses are provided for students pursuing careers related to the environment and for others who simply want to know more about environmental issues. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, students should be able to: Demonstrate a broad understanding and appreciation for a range of environmental issues spanning natural and human systems Demonstrate an understanding and appreciation of different perspectives regarding environmental issues Demonstrate an understanding of approaches used in addressing environmental problems including data analysis and problem-solving Secondary Major The Environmental Studies secondary major is taken in addition to a first major and provides the breadth of preparation and integrated perspective necessary to understand environmental issues. Students seeking a major in Environmental Studies complete 24 credits of ENV S coursework including: At least one general survey course chosen from: ENV S 101 Environmental Geology: Earth in Crisis ENV S 120 Introduction to Renewable Resources ENV S 173 Environmental Biology ENV S 201 Introduction to Environmental Issues At least one integrative/issues course chosen from: ENV S 160 Water Resources of the World ENV S 204 Biodiversity ENV S 324 Energy and the Environment ENV S 342 World Food Issues: Past and Present ENV S 404 Global Change ENV S 424 Sustainable and Environmental Horticulture Systems ENV S 450 Issues in Sustainable Agriculture At least two human/societal perspectives courses chosen from: ENV S 293 Environmental Planning ENV S 320 Ecofeminism ENV S 334 Environmental Ethics ENV S 345 Population and Society ENV S 355 Literature and the Environment ENV S 363 U. S. Environmental History ENV S 380 Energy, Environmental and Resource Economics ENV S 382 Environmental Sociology ENV S 383 Environmental Politics and Policies ENV S 384 Religion and Ecology ENV S 484 Sustainable Communities ENV S 491 Environmental Law and Planning Beyond these three requirements, any Environmental Studies course and up to six credits of approved environmental coursework outside of Environmental Studies may be applied toward the 24 credit total for the major. Regardless of their home college, Environmental Studies majors must complete at least 9 credits in natural sciences from the LAS General Education approved course list. Unless prohibited by program or college rules, courses used to fulfill requirements of the Environmental Studies major may also be used to satisfy general education and other requirements of departments and colleges. A combined average grade of C or higher is required in courses applied to the major. Minor Students seeking a minor in Environmental Studies complete 15 credits of approved Environmental Studies coursework including: At least one general survey course chosen from: ENV S 101 Environmental Geology: Earth in Crisis ENV S 120 Introduction to Renewable Resources ENV S 173 Environmental Biology ENV S 201 Introduction to Environmental Issues At least one integrative/issues course chosen from: ENV S 160 Water Resources of the World ENV S 204 Biodiversity ENV S 324 Energy and the Environment ENV S 342 World Food Issues: Past and Present ENV S 404 Global Change ENV S 424 Sustainable and Environmental Horticulture Systems ENV S 450 Issues in Sustainable Agriculture At least two human/societal perspectives courses chosen from: ENV S 293 Environmental Planning ENV S 320 Ecofeminism ENV S 334 Environmental Ethics ENV S 345 Population and Society ENV S 355 Literature and the Environment ENV S 363 U. S. Environmental History ENV S 380 Energy, Environmental and Resource Economics ENV S 382 Environmental Sociology ENV S 383 Environmental Politics and Policies ENV S 384 Religion and Ecology ENV S 484 Sustainable Communities ENV S 491 Environmental Law and Planning A combined average grade of C or higher is required in courses applied to the minor, and the minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.