Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Education Secondary Select a section... Overview Secondary Major Requirements Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Human Sciences > Education Secondary Secondary Major in Education A secondary major in Education at Iowa State University prepares candidates to teach at the middle school and high school levels. K-12/Secondary Educator Preparation Programs eligible to pursue the secondary major in Education are: English Education History/Social Sciences Education - History History/Social Sciences Education - Political Science Mathematics Education Science Education – Biology Science Education – Chemistry Science Education – Earth Science Science Education – Physics World Languages and Cultures Education – French World Languages and Cultures Education – German World Languages and Cultures Education – Spanish Additional Endorsements and Minors Candidates pursuing the secondary major in Education have the opportunity to pursue additional endorsements and minors: K-12 Coaching Endorsement K-12 English as a Second Language Endorsement 5-12 Reading Endorsement Additional Science Endorsements 5-12 Physical Science 5-12 Basic Science Additional Social Sciences Endorsements 5-12 American Government 5-12 Anthropology 5-12 Economics 5-12 Psychology 5-12 Sociology 5-12 Speech and Theatre Endorsement (See https://education.iastate.edu/future-students/find-your-major/endorsements/ for additional information) Learning Technologies Minor (See https://education.iastate.edu/find-your-major/learning-technologies-minor/) Speciﬁc program requirements can be found within each department that houses the endorsement. Information on K-12 Coaching, K-12 English as a Second Language, and 5-12 Reading can be found at: https://iastate.app.box.com/s/m4tr3ogr9ouwmiubz5dhv9catryr2jqf Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, students should be able to: The Learner and Learning Standard #1: Learner Development. Understand how learners grow and develop, recognizing that patterns of learning and development vary individually within and across the cognitive, linguistic, social, emotional, and physical areas, and designs and implements developmentally appropriate and challenging learning experiences. Standard #2: Learning Differences. Use understanding of individual differences and diverse cultures and communities to ensure inclusive learning environments that enable each learner to meet high standards. Standard #3: Learning Environments. Work with others to create environments that support individual and collaborative learning, and that encourage positive social interaction, active engagement in learning, and self-motivation. Content Standard #4: Content Knowledge. Understand the central concepts, tools of inquiry, and structures of the discipline(s) he or she teaches and creates learning experiences that make the discipline accessible and meaningful for learners to assure mastery of the content. Standard #5: Application of Content. Understand how to connect concepts and use differing perspectives to engage learners in critical thinking, creativity, and collaborative problem solving related to authentic local and global issues. Instructional Practices Standard #6: Assessment. Understand and use multiple methods of assessment to engage learners in their own growth, to monitor learner progress, and to guide the teacher’s and learner’s decision making. Standard #7: Planning for Instruction. Plan instruction that supports every student in meeting rigorous learning goals by drawing upon knowledge of content areas, curriculum, cross-disciplinary skills, and pedagogy, as well as knowledge of learners and the community context. Standard #8: Instructional Strategies. Understand and use a variety of instructional strategies to encourage learners to develop deep understanding of content areas and their connections, and to build skills to apply knowledge in meaningful ways. Standard #8A: Technology. Integrate current and emerging technology in instruction to encourage student creativity, problem solving, collaboration, and digital literacy. Teachers practice and advocate safe, legal, and responsible use of information and technology. Professional Responsibility Standard #9: Professional Learning and Ethical Practice. Engage in ongoing professional learning and uses evidence to continually evaluate his/her practice, particularly the effects of his/her choices and actions on others (learners, families, other professionals, and the community), and adapts practice to meet the needs of each learner. Standard #10: Leadership and Collaboration. Seek appropriate leadership roles and opportunities to take responsibility for student learning, to collaborate with learners, families, colleagues, other school professionals, and community members to ensure learner growth, and to advance the profession. Curriculum in secondary major in EDUCATION Educator Preparation Program Admission Requirements In addition to being admitted to Iowa State University and departmental programs/majors, educator preparation candidates must be admitted to the Educator Preparation Program prior to beginning advanced coursework. Educator Preparation Program Admission Requirements are provided in Educator Preparation Policy. Decision Point 1 - Admission to the Teacher Education Program. To access the policy, please follow this link: https://iastate.box.com/s/vnp2dt4sihtu99ilym531y1lnjkrb4e9 Decision Point 1 - Early Admission to the Teacher Education Program for Transfer Students. To access the policy, please follow this link: https://iastate.box.com/s/o45gppndbjxa3j9fm9pwvwrk9cc92jzb In order to be eligible to student teaching (EDUC 417), candidates must have completed all degree program requirements and content specific coursework. Decision Point 2 - Requirements Students Must Meet Prior to Student Teaching. To access the policy, please follow this link: https://iastate.box.com/s/arvh7dvr3z35548rod5sso2g5throo6f In order to be recommended for licensure, candidates must have completed all degree program requirements and be considered an educator preparation program completer. Decision Point 3 - Recommendation for Licensure. To access the policy: please follow this link: https://iastate.box.com/s/s6l016zuyu0r7v7alw426d6bosai6zo3 All Educator Preparation Program candidates must complete the professional core coursework (information found under each program) and required pedagogy and ﬁeld experience coursework for their program. In addition, all prospective teachers are required to meet general education requirements as a part of their preparation. They must complete studies in the following general education groups. General education courses may be found in many departments. Credits listed are minimum requirements. Speciﬁc departments and/or colleges may require speciﬁc coursework to meet these requirements or additional credits. Credits used to satisfy these general education requirements typically satisfy department and college general education requirements. Educator Preparation General Education Requirements Natural Sciences 6 Mathematics or Statistics 3 Social Sciences 9 Humanities 6 Communication Skills Must include ENGL 150 and 250 or an equivalent 9 Library Skills LIB 160 1 HD FS 102 or PSYCH 230 3 One course in American history or government One course that develops interpersonal or group presentation skills NOTE: Specific majors will provide approved options to meet these requirements. Secondary major in Education Requirements for English Education Candidates Educator Preparation Field Experiences: EDUC 280L Pre-Student Teaching Experience I: Secondary Education 0.5 EDUC 380A Pre-Student Teaching Experience II: Core Experience 2 EDUC 480 Pre-Student Teaching Experience III 2 ENGL 417E Student Teaching: English and Literature 16 Educator Preparation Professional Core Coursework: EDUC 203 A Connected World: Technology for Learning, Creating, and Collaborating 1 EDUC 204 Social Foundations of Education in the United States: Secondary 3 EDUC 303 Introduction to Educational Technology 1 EDUC 333 Educational Psychology 3 EDUC 395 Teaching Disciplinary Literacy 3 EDUC 403 Intermediate Educational Technology 1 EDUC 406 Social Justice Education and Teaching: Secondary 3 SP ED 401 Teaching Secondary Students with Exceptionalities in General Education 3 Educator Preparation Pedagogy/Methods Coursework: ENGL 396 Teaching the Reading of Young Adult Literature 3 ENGL 397 Practice and Theory of Teaching Writing in the Secondary Schools 3 ENGL 494 Practice and Theory of Teaching Literature in the Secondary Schools 3 EDUC 426 Principles of Secondary Education 3 Please check departmental information in regards to speciﬁc content coursework requirements. Secondary major in Education Requirements for History/Social Sciences Education Candidates Educator Preparation Orientation Course Requirement: EDUC 219 Orientation to Teacher Education: FCS, History, Math, Science and World Language and Cultures Majors 1 Educator Preparation Field Experiences: EDUC 280L Pre-Student Teaching Experience I: Secondary Education 0.5 EDUC 380A Pre-Student Teaching Experience II: Core Experience 2 EDUC 480 Pre-Student Teaching Experience III 2 EDUC 417 Student Teaching 16 Educator Preparation Professional Core Coursework: EDUC 203 A Connected World: Technology for Learning, Creating, and Collaborating 1 EDUC 204 Social Foundations of Education in the United States: Secondary 3 EDUC 303 Introduction to Educational Technology 1 EDUC 333 Educational Psychology 3 EDUC 403 Intermediate Educational Technology 1 EDUC 406 Social Justice Education and Teaching: Secondary 3 SP ED 401 Teaching Secondary Students with Exceptionalities in General Education 3 Educator Preparation Pedagogy/Methods Coursework: EDUC 498 Methods of Teaching History/Social Sciences 3 EDUC 426 Principles of Secondary Education 3 Please check departmental information in regards to speciﬁc content coursework requirements. Secondary major in Education Requirements for Mathematics Education Candidates Educator Preparation Orientation Course Requirement: EDUC 219 Orientation to Teacher Education: FCS, History, Math, Science and World Language and Cultures Majors 1 Educator Preparation Field Experiences: EDUC 280J Pre-Student Teaching Experience I: Mathematics Clinic 1 EDUC 380A Pre-Student Teaching Experience II: Core Experience 2 EDUC 480 Pre-Student Teaching Experience III 2 EDUC 417 Student Teaching 16 Educator Preparation Professional Core Coursework: EDUC 203 A Connected World: Technology for Learning, Creating, and Collaborating 1 EDUC 204 Social Foundations of Education in the United States: Secondary 3 EDUC 303 Introduction to Educational Technology 1 EDUC 333 Educational Psychology 3 EDUC 395 Teaching Disciplinary Literacy 3 EDUC 403 Intermediate Educational Technology 1 EDUC 406 Social Justice Education and Teaching: Secondary 3 SP ED 401 Teaching Secondary Students with Exceptionalities in General Education 3 Educator Preparation Pedagogy/Methods Coursework: EDUC 497 Teaching Secondary School Mathematics 3 Please check departmental information in regards to speciﬁc content coursework requirements. Secondary major in Education Requirements for Science Education Candidates (Biology, Chemistry, Earth Science, Physics) Educator Preparation Orientation Course Requirement: EDUC 219 Orientation to Teacher Education: FCS, History, Math, Science and World Language and Cultures Majors 1 Educator Preparation Field Experiences: EDUC 280L Pre-Student Teaching Experience I: Secondary Education 0.5 EDUC 380A Pre-Student Teaching Experience II: Core Experience 2 EDUC 480 Pre-Student Teaching Experience III 2 EDUC 417 Student Teaching 16 Educator Preparation Professional Core Coursework: EDUC 203 A Connected World: Technology for Learning, Creating, and Collaborating 1 EDUC 204 Social Foundations of Education in the United States: Secondary 3 EDUC 303 Introduction to Educational Technology 1 EDUC 333 Educational Psychology 3 EDUC 395 Teaching Disciplinary Literacy 3 EDUC 403 Intermediate Educational Technology 1 EDUC 406 Social Justice Education and Teaching: Secondary 3 SP ED 401 Teaching Secondary Students with Exceptionalities in General Education 3 Educator Preparation Pedagogy/Methods Coursework: EDUC 347 Nature of Science 3 EDUC 418 Secondary Science Methods I 3 EDUC 419 Secondary Science Methods II 3 Please check departmental information in regards to speciﬁc content coursework requirements. Secondary major in Education Requirements for World Languages and Cultures Education Candidates (French, German, Spanish) Educator Preparation Orientation Course Requirement: EDUC 219 Orientation to Teacher Education: FCS, History, Math, Science and World Language and Cultures Majors 1 Educator Preparation Field Experiences: EDUC 280L Pre-Student Teaching Experience I: Secondary Education 0.5 EDUC 380A Pre-Student Teaching Experience II: Core Experience 2 EDUC 480 Pre-Student Teaching Experience III 2 EDUC 417 Student Teaching 16 Educator Preparation Professional Core Coursework: EDUC 203 A Connected World: Technology for Learning, Creating, and Collaborating 1 EDUC 204 Social Foundations of Education in the United States: Secondary 3 EDUC 303 Introduction to Educational Technology 1 EDUC 333 Educational Psychology 3 EDUC 395 Teaching Disciplinary Literacy 3 EDUC 403 Intermediate Educational Technology 1 EDUC 406 Social Justice Education and Teaching: Secondary 3 SP ED 401 Teaching Secondary Students with Exceptionalities in General Education 3 Educator Preparation Pedagogy/Methods Coursework: EDUC 487 Methods in Secondary School World Language Instruction 3 EDUC 426 Principles of Secondary Education 3 Please check departmental information in regards to speciﬁc content coursework requirements. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.