Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Search Catalog University of Pennsylvania Toggle menu Toggle search Programs Courses Pennbook Search Home/ Pennbook/ Student Grievance Procedures Print Options 2022-23 Catalog 2022-23 Catalog Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Programs A-Z Courses A-Z Search Courses Pennbook Student Grievance Procedures Faculty Handbook Student Grievance Procedures Federal law requires the University to designate an employee to coordinate its compliance, including the investigation of complaints with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education amendments of 1972, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. In addition, the University is required to have procedures for the resolution of student and employee grievances alleging violations of these laws. Any student in the University who feels that he or she has been discriminated against by an individual or office acting for the University or that the University is not complying with the requirements of Title VI, Title IX, or the Rehabilitation Act, has a right to register a complaint and seek redress of his or her grievance. The student may take his/her complaint to the following University offices: Office of Affirmative Action & Equal Opportunity Programs The Office of Affirmative Action & Equal Opportunity Programs monitors the University’s equal opportunity/affirmative action policies and programs. The Office also is responsible for coordinating complaints with non-discrimination laws (including investigating complaints and coordinating programs for the disabled). The OAA staff is available to consult with faculty, staff, students, and members of the community who have questions or concerns regarding the application or possible violation of these policies, Title VI or Title IX. The Office is located at 3600 Chestnut Street Sansom Place East Suite 228 Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-6993 In addition to the description of duties given earlier, the Office of Affirmative Action is also responsible for coordinating complaints with non-discrimination laws, including investigating complaints and coordinating programs for the disabled. The OAA staff is available to consult with faculty, staff, students, and members of the community who have questions or concerns regarding the application or possible violation of these policies, Title VI or Title IX. Other Grievance Procedures Academic Grievances Schools and academic departments within the University have established procedures for the resolution of student grievances concerning academic matters. Students should contact the Dean’s Office of the particular school for a copy of the appropriate procedures and for guidance regarding the grievance process. A student who wishes to register a grievance regarding the evaluation of his/her academic work should follow the academic grievance procedure applicable in the school or department in which the academic work was performed. School of Arts and Sciences & Professional and Liberal Education Biomedical Graduate Studies Annenberg School for Communication page 28 School of Design page 62 School of Engineering and Applied Science Part D School of Law School of Nursing School of Social Policy and Practice School of Veterinary Medicine Wharton Doctoral Programs Administrative and Employment Grievances Students with administrative grievances should contact the Office of the Vice Provost for University Life, 3611 Locust Walk, 215-898-6081. Students with grievances related to their appointment as a teaching assistant, research assistant, or graduate assistant should contact their Dean’s Office or the Vice Provost for Education, 215-898-7225. Updated February 13, 2020 Offices & Services Calendar Careers Contact Us Maps Parking Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 898-5000 Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Cancel