Skip to Content Skip to main content Search X Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines ﻿ Search ﻿ Menu Academic Catalog eCourseware umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost’s Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College eCourseware Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Administrative Support President’s Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online ﻿Instagram ﻿Facebook ﻿twitter ﻿Youtube ﻿Linkedn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance…” 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct. University of Memphis May 31, 2022 UofM 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog Select a Catalog Online Catalogs UOFM 2022-2023 UNDERGRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UOFM 2022-2023 GRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog * [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs College and Department Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home COVID-19 Statement About UofM About Catalog Course Descriptions Undergraduate Catalog Archive Academics UofM President’s Message Academic Program Accreditation Academic Regulations Academic Year Calendars Academic Forms Explanation of Course Footnotes Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Minors Degree Type Accelerated Programs Certificate Students Apply Now! Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Transfer Students Military Students Dual Enrollment Student Aid & Scholarships University & Student Business Services (Bursar) Services for Students Parent & Family Involvement Campus Directory Campus Map Notice to Students Graduation from University General Education Requirements Planning General Requirements & Graduation College and Degree Requirements Colleges and Departments University Administration, Faculty and Staff College of Arts and Sciences College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education College of Professional & Liberal Studies Fogelman College of Business & Economics Helen Hardin Honors College Herff College of Engineering Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Loewenberg College of Nursing School of Communication Sciences and Disorders College of Health Sciences School of Public Health UofM Global My Portfolio HELP UofM 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Physics, (Accelerated B.S./M.S.) Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Program objectives for a B.S. in Physics are: (a) knowledge of core principles in classical mechanics, electromagnetism, thermal physics, quantum mechanics, mathematical methods, optics, and modern physics; (b) ability to discriminate between relevant and irrelevant principles and facts in problem solving; (c) an understanding of research methodology in physics; (d) ability to effectively communicate scientific results in both oral and written reports; (e) ability to use computers for data analysis, literature search, scientific writing, and the ability to use other specialized research equipment; (f) ability to collaborate with other students in and out of the laboratory and during problem-solving. University General Education Program (41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Note the following requirements specified for the Physics major: Mathematics MATH 1910 - Calculus I ** Credit Hours: (4) Natural Science CHEM 1110 - General Chemistry I Credit Hours: (3) CHEM 1111 - General Chemistry I Lab Credit Hours: (1) CHEM 1120 - General Chemistry II Credit Hours: (3) CHEM 1121 - General Chemistry II Lab Credit Hours: (1) Electives Electives must be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. Honors Program This program is open to physics majors who maintain an inclusive grade point average of at least 3.25, a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.25 in the major, have achieved junior standing, and have completed PHYS 3010 Students admitted to the honors program must complete 8 hours of upper-division physics honors courses: (1) PHYS 4991 /PHYS 4992 Honors Research in Physics, where the student will conduct original scholarly work under the direction of an honors research advisor; (2) PHYS 4999 Senior Honors Thesis, where the student will write a thesis based upon background reading and the experimental research completed in PHYS 4991 /PHYS 4992 ; (3) PHYS 4911 Senior Honors Seminar, where the student will give a presentation based on the work completed in PHYS 4991 /PHYS 4992 . Those students who complete the physics honors program and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred “With Honors in Physics.” Moreover, the student’s diploma and record at the University of Memphis will reflect this distinction. Accelerated B.S./M.S. Program in Physics This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Science in Physics during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.S./M.S. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Physics and Materials Science. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study which will allow them to complete their B.S. degree while they also begin the coursework toward their M.S. To apply, students must have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Department of Physics and Materials Science department. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in physics. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for the accelerated B.S./M.S. program, which allows them to take graduate courses in physics. To continue in the program past the B.S., students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the M.S. program of the Department of Physics and Materials Science. Only in ABM programs, up to 12 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. However, any graduate coursework will not apply to undergraduate GPA. Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 University of Memphis. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).