Skip to Content Skip to main content Search X Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines ﻿ Search ﻿ Menu Academic Catalog eCourseware umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost’s Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College eCourseware Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Administrative Support President’s Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online ﻿Instagram ﻿Facebook ﻿twitter ﻿Youtube ﻿Linkedn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance…” 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct. University of Memphis May 31, 2022 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog Select a Catalog Online Catalogs UOFM 2022-2023 UNDERGRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UOFM 2022-2023 GRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog * [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs College and Department Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home APPLY NOW! About Admission Regulations Academic Regulations Academic Services Minimum Degree Requirements for Graduate Academic Programs Degree Programs Courses Faculty and Staff Resources Research Resources Expenses University Calendar Catalog Archives My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog For students whose initial enrollment occurs Fall 2018 - Summer 2019, this Catalog is valid through Summer 2027. Individual program requirements described in the Graduate School Issue of the 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog of The University of Memphis are subject to change. Please consult your graduate advisor for changes that may occur before publication of the next issue of this Catalog. The University reserves the right to cancel or alter any part of this Catalog without notice (subject to the following): The course offerings and requirements of the University of Memphis are continually under examination and revision. This Catalog presents the offerings and requirements in effect at the time of publication, but is no guarantee that they will not be changed or revoked. The specific courses or activities constituting the degree requirements for any programs are subject to state contractual terms and do not constitute a contract between the student and the University of Memphis. The University of Memphis reserves the right to make changes as required in course offerings, curricula, academic policies and other rules and regulations affecting students to be effective whenever determined by the institution. These changes will govern current and formerly enrolled students. Enrollment of all students is subject to these conditions. Any fees, charges or costs, and all academic regulations set forth in this Bulletin are subject to change at any time, and all courses, programs, and activities described in this Bulletin are subject to cancellation or termination by the University of Memphis at any time. The University of Memphis provides the opportunity for students to increase their knowledge by providing programs of instruction in the various disciplines and programs through faculty who, in the opinion of the institution, are trained and qualified for teaching at the college level. However, the acquisition of knowledge by any student is contingent upon the student’s desire and ability to learn and the application of appropriate study techniques to any course or program. Thus, the University of Memphis must necessarily limit representation of student preparedness in any field of study to the competency demonstrated at that specific point in time at which appropriate academic measurements were taken to certify course or program completion. The University of Memphis offers equal educational opportunity to all persons without regard to race, religion, sex, creed, color, national origin or disability. The University does not discriminate on these bases in recruitment and admission of students or in the operation of its programs and activities, as specified by federal laws and regulations. The designated coordinators for University compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 are the Vice President for Student Affairs and the Equal Opportunity Compliance Officer. Information in this document will be provided in alternate format upon request. The University of Memphis is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University. It is committed to education of a non-racially identifiable student body. The University of Memphis is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097, telephone number 404.679.4501) to award bachelor’s, first professional, master’s, educational specialist, doctoral degrees, and graduate certificates. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 University of Memphis. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).