Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in College of Veterinary Medicine Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Fourth Year Reinstatement Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Veterinary Medicine Dan Grooms, Dean of Veterinary Medicine Jared A. Danielson, Associate Dean for Academic and Student Affairs vetmed.iastate.edu/ Departments of the College Biomedical Sciences Veterinary Clinical Sciences Veterinary Diagnostic and Production Animal Medicine Veterinary Microbiology and Preventive Medicine Veterinary Pathology Other units of the college include the Lloyd Veterinary Medical Center, Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory, Veterinary Medical Research Institute, Veterinary Education and Technology Services and Office of Curricular and Student Assessment. The college participates in interdisciplinary graduate programs in genetics; molecular, cellular and developmental biology; toxicology; immunobiology; and neuroscience. Objectives of the Curriculum The instructional objective of the College of Veterinary Medicine is to enable students to assume vital roles in society as productive health care providers and biomedical scientists. Such an education provides students with general learning, communication, and problem solving abilities; veterinary medical practice and research skills; and professional and ethical values. The curriculum incorporates basic biomedical and clinical principles, clinical decision making skills, and exceptional clinical experience in small animal medicine and surgery, equine medicine and surgery, food animal medicine and surgery, and production animal medicine. Companion animal medicine and surgery are provided within the regionally recognized referral hospital through the community practice unit and equine field services. The college is located in one of the most intensive livestock producing areas in the United States. Because of this, students engage in extensive food supply veterinary medicine experiences and numerous diagnostic cases. The professional curriculum is a four-year course of study leading to the doctor of veterinary medicine degree. Each of the first three years of the curriculum consists of two semesters while the fourth year has three semesters. Students are admitted into the professional curriculum after completing a minimum of 55 semester credits of required undergraduate coursework. A strong and reputable basic science education during the first two years of the professional curriculum prepares veterinary students for a wide range of clinical experience during the last two years of the educational program. Fourth year students may choose to enhance their education by earning clinical elective credits at approved government agencies, research laboratories, veterinary practices and other university hospitals. Outstanding research programs in infectious diseases, food safety, neuroscience, immunoparasitology, evidence-based medicine, and many other areas provide opportunities for qualified students to participate in research. Concurrent DVM/MS, DVM/PhD, DVM/MPH and DVM/MBA programs are available for qualified students who wish to obtain both veterinary and graduate degrees. Students must have a bachelor’s degree or a minimum of 128 semester credits in undergraduate and professional curricula in order to participate in the concurrent DVM/graduate degree program. Admission to the concurrent degree program is subject to the approval of the deans of the College of Veterinary Medicine and the Graduate College. The college is an important recruiting center for employers seeking veterinarians for private practice; industry; educational institutions; international agencies; federal, state and local governments; the armed forces; departments of public health; zoological gardens; and other related fields of professional activity. Graduates are highly sought after and typically have multiple employment offers upon graduation. Career services and an online job board are available for students. Pre-veterinary Medicine Preparation Admission Requirements The College of Veterinary Medicine seeks students with diverse backgrounds and encourages students to enroll in baccalaureate programs in the college of their choice. While a Bachelor's degree is not required for admissions to the College of Veterinary Medicine, students must have a strong science foundation found in the required pre-veterinary coursework. Veterinarians have varied career options. When deciding on an undergraduate major, the student should consider the area of veterinary medicine which interests them. For example, those who desire a career in clinical practice may wish to pursue a degree in biological science, animal science, agricultural economics, business, social science or humanities. Students with an interest in zoo or wildlife veterinary medicine may want to look at animal ecology, environmental studies or zoology. Future researchers may wish to consider genetics, molecular biology, microbiology, or biochemistry. Students who desire a career in public health (USDA, FDA, etc) or government (legislative/policy) may find benefit in any of the biological sciences or in political science. A degree in education may be valuable to those who envision themselves as educators in a College of Veterinary Medicine. These examples are only suggestions and are but a few of the many possibilities. For the most current information regarding applications and admission to the College of Veterinary Medicine, please refer to the College web site at www.vetmed.iastate.edu/. Applicants for admission to the College of Veterinary Medicine must have attended an accredited college or university and have completed 55 semester credits prior to the end of the spring term of the year in which the applicant seeks to be admitted to the College of Veterinary Medicine. All science requirements should be fulfilled by the time of application or scheduled for completion by the end of the fall term in which the applicant applies. However, if necessary, the applicant may complete up to two required science courses after the fall term providing a transcript with the courses and grades listed is postmarked by July 1 of the year the applicant would enter. There is no maximum number of non-science required courses that may be completed but the deadline of having a transcript with these course grades posted by July 1 also applies. The July 1 deadline for transcripts and grades is firm. Required courses must be completed with a grade of C (2.00) or better. A grade of C- (1.67) does not fulfill the requirement. Credits earned must include the following Iowa State semester course offerings or their equivalents: English Composition 6 cr. One year of composition or writing emphasis courses. May include business or technical writing. Two of the following courses would fulfill the requirement. ENGL 150 Critical Thinking and Communication 3 ENGL 250 Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition 3 ENGL 302 Business Communication 3 ENGL 309 Proposal and Report Writing 3 ENGL 314 Technical Communication 3 Oral Communications 3 cr. May include public speaking, interpersonal communication, group or organizational communication or speaking emphasis courses. One of the courses below will fulfill the requirement. SP CM 212 Fundamentals of Public Speaking 3 AGEDS 311 Presentation and Sales Strategies for Agricultural Audiences 3 SP CM 312 Business and Professional Speaking 3 COMST 214 Professional Communication 3 General Chemistry with Laboratory* 7 cr. One year series for science majors with one semester lab. CHEM 177 & 177L General Chemistry I and Laboratory in General Chemistry I 5 CHEM 178 General Chemistry II 3 Total Credits 8 Organic Chemistry with Laboratory* 4 cr. The first in a two-semester series of Organic Chemistry with lab. The second semester of organic chemistry will not fulfill this requirement. CHEM 331 Organic Chemistry I 3 CHEM 331L Laboratory in Organic Chemistry I 1 Total Credits 4 Biochemistry* 3 cr. One semester (no lab required). One of the courses below will fulfill the requirement. Must be metabolic biochemistry and cannot be biochemistry of proteins and enzymes alone. BBMB 301 Survey of Biochemistry 3 BBMB 316 Principles of Biochemistry 3 BBMB 404 Biochemistry I 3 BBMB 420 Mammalian Biochemistry 3 General Physics with Laboratory* 4 cr. First semester of a two-semester series with lab. Must include mechanics, fluids, heat and thermodynamics, vibrations, waves and sound. The second semester of Physics will not fulfill this requirement. PHYS 131 General Physics I 4 PHYS 131L General Physics I Laboratory 1 PHYS 115 Physics for the Life Sciences 4 PHYS 115L Laboratory in Physics for the Life Sciences 1 PHYS 231 Introduction to Classical Physics I 4 PHYS 231L Introduction to Classical Physics I Laboratory 1 General Biology with Laboratory* 8 cr. Two semester series with lab each semester. If a series is not available a course in organismal biology with lab and a course in cellular biology and lab will fulfill this requirement. In addition, a Bachelor’s degree in Biology fulfills this requirement. BIOL 211 Principles of Biology I 3 BIOL 211L Principles of Biology Laboratory I 1 BIOL 212 Principles of Biology II 3 BIOL 212L Principles of Biology Laboratory II 1 Total Credits 8 Genetics * 3 cr. Must include Mendelian and molecular genetics. A general genetics course is preferred, but animal breeding/livestock improvement courses will be accepted. One of the courses below will fulfill the requirement. BIOL 313 Principles of Genetics 3 GEN 320 Genetics, Agriculture and Biotechnology 3 AN S 352 Genetic Improvement of Domestic Animals 3 Mammalian Anatomy or Physiology* 3 cr. Human anatomy or physiology will also fulfill this requirement (no lab required). Must be an overview of all organ systems. If you take an Anatomy and/or Physiology I course, you must also take the second course, Anatomy and/or Physiology II, in order to fulfill the requirement. One of the courses below will fulfill the requirement. B M S 329 Anatomy and Physiology of Domestic Animals 3 B M S 447 Introduction to Human Gross Anatomy 4 B M S 538 Principles of Physiology 4 AN S 214 Domestic Animal Physiology 3 BIOL 155 Human Biology 3 BIOL 255 Fundamentals of Human Anatomy 3 BIOL 335 Principles of Human and Other Animal Physiology 3 BIOL 351 Comparative Chordate Anatomy 5 Humanities or Social Sciences 6 cr. Electives 8 cr. Total Credits Required 60 cr. Courses above marked with an asterisk (*) are the required science courses. The required science course GPA is calculated from these courses. Credits in the previously specified courses will normally be earned on the traditional four-letter grading system with A as the highest grade and D as the lowest passing grade. All required courses must be completed with a grade of C (2.0) or better. It is generally expected that required courses have been completed within the past eight (8) years. AP or CLEP credits must be documented by original scores submitted to the College of Veterinary Medicine. CLEP credits may be accepted only for arts, humanities and social sciences. Credits in the preceding specified courses will not be accepted if earned under the pass-not pass grading system or similar options. Please see COVID-19 exceptions. Application and Admission Applicants must apply using the Veterinary Medical College Application Service (VMCAS). The VMCAS application may be found online at the VMCAS website. Those applying through VMCAS also need to complete the ISU Supplemental Application found at the College of Veterinary Medicine website. The deadline for filing the VMCAS and Supplemental Application is typically mid-September. A list of courses in progress at the time of submission and/or scheduled for completion by the end of spring term should be entered in the VMCAS application. Undergraduate college credits must average at least 2.50 on a 4.00 marking system for the application to be eligible for review. The preceding scholastic requirements are minimum and do not assure admission even though these requirements have been fulfilled. Admission to the College of Veterinary Medicine is on a competitive and selective basis. GPA, animal, veterinary, research and other employment experiences, essays, recommendations and personal development (leadership, citizenship, volunteerism, etc.) are given consideration in the selection of candidates. Approximately 60 positions are reserved for Iowa residents. The remaining positions are allotted to the following: Professional Program in Veterinary Medicine with the University of Nebraska-Lincoln (~26), contract with the State of North Dakota (~4) and the non-resident applicant pool (~71). The non-resident applicant pool includes international applicants. Consideration is given equally to all applicants without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, religion, disability, or age, political beliefs, or marital or familial status. For further information on these programs and contracts, please visit the College of Veterinary Medicine at https://vetmed.iastate.edu/future-dvm-students. Curriculum in Veterinary Medicine Graduation Requirements To be awarded the degree doctor of veterinary medicine, candidates must have passed all required courses in the curriculum in veterinary medicine, earned a minimum 2.0 grade-point average in the veterinary medicine curriculum, and earned at least 4 elective credits during the VM1-3 years. Candidates must also have given a grand rounds presentation (V C S 495 Grand Rounds Presentations). Required Courses in the Professional Program B M S 330 Principles of Morphology I 6 B M S 331 Principles of Morphology II 4 B M S 333 Biomedical Sciences I 6 B M S 334 Biomedical Sciences II 6 B M S 335 Molecular and Cellular Basis of Disease 1 B M S 336 Veterinary Nutrition 2 B M S 337 Neuroanatomy 3 B M S 339 Clinical Foundations I 1 B M S 345 Case Study I 1 B M S 346 Case Study II 1 B M S 354 General Pharmacology 3 B M S 443 Pharmacology and Therapeutics 3 V C S 311 Veterinarian in Society I R V C S 313 Veterinarian in Society III 1 V C S 314 Veterinarian in Society IV 1 V C S 315 Veterinarian in Society V 1 V C S 339 Clinical Foundations I 1 V C S 385 Grand Rounds R V C S 391 Clinical Imaging 1 V C S 393 Principles of Surgery 3 V C S 394 Principles of Surgery Laboratory 1 V C S 395 Small Animal Surgery 2 V C S 398 Anesthesiology 2 V C S 399 Ophthalmology 1 V C S 436 Small Animal Internal Medicine 3 V C S 440 Introduction to Clinics R V C S 444 Small Animal Medicine 4 V C S 445 Equine Medicine 2 V C S 448 Diagnostic Imaging and Radiobiology 3 V C S 449 Junior Surgery Laboratory 3 VDPAM 312 Introduction to Animal Welfare 1 VDPAM 426 Veterinary Toxicology 3 VDPAM 445 Production Animal Clinical Medicine 3 VDPAM 450 Disturbances of Reproduction 4 V MPM 378 Case Study IV 2 V MPM 380 Veterinary Immunology 2 V MPM 386 Veterinary Microbiology 5 V MPM 387 Veterinary Virology 3 V MPM 388 Public Health and the Role of the Veterinary Profession 3 V MPM 437 Infectious Diseases and Preventive Medicine 3 V PTH 342 Anatomic Pathology I 3 V PTH 372 Anatomic Pathology II 4 V PTH 376 Veterinary Parasitology 4 V PTH 377 Case Study III 2 V PTH 409 Introduction to Veterinary Cytology and Laboratory Techniques 1 V PTH 425 Clinical Pathology 4 Fourth Year The fourth year of the veterinary medical curriculum is designed to be flexible yet provide a broad based clinical education involving all domestic species of animals. All students participate in rotations that are considered fundamental to any species orientation that the student might choose. In addition, students choose one of four options for additional study, including the Small Animal, Equine, Mixed Animal, or Food Animal Options. Students may obtain clinical elective credits by repeating on-campus rotations or participating in approved off-campus preceptorships at government, private or public agencies; other universities; or private veterinary practices. The following rotations are required of all fourth year students in addition to the requirements of the track they choose. A complete listing of track-specific requirements can be found at: http://vetmed.iastate.edu/: V C S 453 Small Animal Medicine I 2 V C S 457 Equine Medicine 2 or V C S 464 Equine Field Services V C S 460 Radiology 2 V C S 463 Primary Care 2 V C S 466 Anesthesiology 2 V C S 468 Intensive Care 4 V C S 495 Grand Rounds Presentations R VDPAM 477 Food Animal and Camelid Medicine and Surgery 2 V PTH 456 Necropsy Laboratory Practicum 1 V PTH 457 Clinical Pathology Laboratory Practicum 1 Reinstatement Any student who voluntarily withdraws from the College of Veterinary Medicine or who is dismissed from the College of Veterinary Medicine, after having successfully completed one or more semesters forfeits his/her standing and must make written application for reinstatement to this college a minimum of 60 days prior to the opening of the semester for which they seek to re-enter. Any student who voluntarily withdraws from the College of Veterinary Medicine prior to completion of one semester must re-apply for admission to the college in the general applicant pool. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.