Skip to main content Academic Catalogs Navigation Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Archived Catalogs Stay on Track at UCF Undergraduate and Graduate Catalogs Skip to Section About the Catalog This Year’s Catalogs & Catalog Archives President’s Message Academic Calendar About the Catalog The current Undergraduate Catalog is published here each July. It is compiled and edited by the Registrar’s Office, in the Division of Student Learning & Academic Success. The Undergraduate Catalog contains a description of the various policies, undergraduate programs, degree requirements, course offerings and related matters intended to be in effect at the University of Central Florida during the 2021-22 academic year. The current Graduate Catalog is published here each July. It is compiled and edited by the College of Graduate Studies. The Graduate Catalog contains a description of the various policies, graduate programs, degree requirements, course offerings and related matters intended to be in effect at the University of Central Florida during the 2021-22 academic year. Any matter described in these catalogs is subject to change. As a result, statements in these catalogs may not be regarded in the nature of binding obligations on the institution or the State of Florida, or as an irrevocable commitment from the university to the reader. Questions about the Undergraduate Catalog? Contact the Registrar's Office at 407-823-3100. Visit registrar.ucf.edu Questions about the Graduate Catalog? Contact the Office of Graduate Studies at 407-823-2766. Visit graduate.ucf.edu ACADEMIC CATALOGS These online catalogs can help you quickly locate and save details about our undergraduate and graduate programs. Whether you are a prospective student or already enrolled, you can easily see what the University of Central Florida has to offer! Current Undergraduate Offerings Visit Catalog Latest Graduate Programs Visit Catalog Prior Years' Catalogs Visit Archives UCF Degree Programs *Fall 2020 433 Undergraduate Programs 385 Graduate Programs 1 Medical Program President's Message Knights, Whether you are just joining UCF or are planning classes for your final semester, we are excited to provide you with opportunities and support to help each of you reach your academic and professional dreams. Even as the ways that we teach and learn change, you can have confidence in the high value of a UCF education and our commitment to providing you with the resources you need to be successful while you are here and after you graduate. At UCF, our motto is "Reach for the Stars." It pushes us to think big and to refuse to be limited by what others say is possible. This mindset has helped UCF become one of the most innovative universities in the country, with a sense of entrepreneurship and optimism that is unique to Knight Nation. Because of this, UCF is an outstanding leading research institution that remains on the rise. We harness our ingenuity in teaching and research and our strong community connections to help you reach new heights — in the classroom, laboratory, studio, field and court — so you can show the brilliance and unwavering confidence that Knights are known for. I hope you take advantage of everything available to you this year to make the most of your college experience and set yourself up for the future. Our job is to remove the barriers to your success so that you are able to unleash your full potential. Best wishes for a great academic year, and in everything ... Charge On! Sincerely, Alexander N. Cartwright, Ph.D. President Academic Calendar Up Next Withdrawal Deadline June 10 Looking Ahead June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 24 Registration for UCF Employees, UCF Employees' Spouses and Dependents June 24 Registration for State Employees, UCFAA Employees, Non-Degree, Transients, and Audits June 24 Registration for Senior Citizen Audits Apply to UCF Class Search Pegasus Path University of Central Florida Facebook Twitter Social YouTube Instagram About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida