Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advising Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog College of Health and Human Development Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) “The mission of the College of Health and Human Development is to prepare students to thrive in a globalized era in their chosen field. We provide education, conduct research and engage diverse communities to advance human health, development well-being.” Interim Dean Cindy Greenberg College of Health and Human Development Associate Dean, Academic Personnel and Resources Katherine E. Bono Associate Dean, Academic Programs and Student Relations Kavin Tsang Dean’s Office Education Classroom Building 606 657-278-3311 College Website hhd.fullerton.edu The College of Health and Human Development is committed to excellent programs, focused on student success and highly engaged in the community. Our student-centered faculty are recognized for outstanding teaching and cutting-edge research. Our state-of-the-art classrooms, laboratories and student success centers are well equipped to support student learning. Our programs meet rigorous national accreditation standards, produce graduates who consistently perform at the highest levels on certification and licensure examinations, and provide experiential learning opportunities that link graduates to meaningful careers. Child and Adolescent Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Child and Adolescent Studies, Adolescent/Youth Development Concentration, B.S. • Child and Adolescent Studies, Early Childhood Development Concentration, B.S. • Child and Adolescent Studies, Elementary School Settings Concentration, B.S. • Child and Adolescent Studies, Family and Community Contexts Concentration, B.S. Non-Degree • Adolescent Development Minor • Child and Adolescent Studies Minor Counseling, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Master of Science • Counseling, Animo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis, M.S. • Counseling, M.S. Human Services, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Human Services, Addiction Studies Concentration, B.S. • Human Services, B.S. • Human Services, Elementary Education Concentration, B.S. • Human Services, Mental Health Concentration, B.S. Non-Degree • Human Services Minor Kinesiology, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Kinesiology, B.S. • Kinesiology, Exercise Science Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Gerokinesiology Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Pre-Allied Health Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Recreation and Physical Activity Promotion Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Sport Studies Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Strength and Conditioning Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Teacher Education Concentration, B.S. Master of Science • Athletic Training, M.S. • Kinesiology, M.S. Non-Degree • Kinesiology Minor • Subject Matter Preparation Program (for Obtaining Single Subject Teaching Credential in Physical Education) Military Science Program Go to information for this department. Programs Non-Degree • Military Science Minor Nursing, School of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Nursing, B.S. Master of Science • Nursing, Nurse Educator Concentration, M.S. • Nursing, Nursing Leadership Concentration, M.S. • Nursing, School Nursing Concentration, M.S. • Nursing, Women’s Health Care Concentration, Nurse-Midwife/Women’s Health Nurse Practitioner Emphasis, M.S. • Nursing, Women’s Health Care Concentration, Women’s Health Care Nurse Practitioner Emphasis, M.S. Doctor of Nursing Practice • Nursing, Doctor of Nursing Practice, DNP • Nursing, Doctor of Nursing Practice, Nurse Anesthesia Concentration, DNP Non-Degree • School Nurse Services (SNS) Credential Public Health, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Public Health, Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Concentration, B.S. • Public Health, General Studies Concentration, B.S. • Public Health, Global Health Concentration, B.S. • Public Health, Health Education and Promotion Concentration, B.S. • Public Health, Public Health Nutrition Concentration, B.S. Master of Public Health • Public Health, M.P.H. Non-Degree • Public Health Minor Social Work, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Master of Social Work • Social Work, Aging Concentration, M.S.W. • Social Work, Child Welfare Concentration, M.S.W. • Social Work, Community Mental Health Concentration, M.S.W. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).