Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Academics Select a section... Classification Degree Planning Communication Proficiency Policy US Diversity & International Perspectives Requirements Academic Grievances/Appeals Attendance, Absences Examinations, Prep Week Scholastic Recognition Graduation Catalog Home > Academics Classification Classification (year in school) is determined by the number of credits completed and reported to the registrar, and is based on credit hours earned, not merely credit hours attempted. The grades F and NP and the marks I and X do not contribute toward credit hours earned and thus are not considered in determining year in school. See Grades for information about the grading system at Iowa State University. Classification in all colleges except Veterinary Medicine is as follows: Sophomore: 30 credit hours earned Junior: 60 credit hours earned Senior: 90 credit hours earned Students who have a bachelor's degree and are working toward another undergraduate degree, licensure, or admission to a specific graduate or professional program, are typically classified as a senior. Transfer students without a degree are classified on the basis of credits accepted by Iowa State University. Veterinary medicine students are promoted from the first- to the second-, third-, and fourth-year classes based upon satisfactory completion of the required courses for each year. To be promoted to the second-year class, students must have a cumulative grade-point average of at least 1.67 for all courses in the first year of the veterinary medicine curriculum. To be promoted to the third- and fourth-year classes, students must have a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.00 for all courses in the professional curriculum. A student, who is attending Iowa State and decides not to work toward an undergraduate degree, will be classified as a special (nondegree) student. Admission requirements and academic standards regulations are the same as regular students. Credits taken as a special (nondegree) student are applicable for undergraduate degree purposes if the student is admitted later as a regular undergraduate. Credits obtained as an undergraduate special student may not, however, be applied toward a graduate degree. Students enrolled in the Intensive English and Orientation Program (IEOP) are classified as special (nondegree) students in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and usually are not permitted to enroll in academic courses until they have satisfied requirements for admission as regular students. Permission to enroll in one academic course may be granted under special circumstances. Degree Planning ISU Degree Audit In addition to being properly registered, students are responsible for knowing the requirements for their degree and planning their schedule to meet those requirements. One way to monitor progress toward a degree is with the ISU degree audit. Students may access their ISU degree audit through AccessPlus. The degree audit shows courses that have been completed, courses in which the student is currently enrolled, and graduation requirements that need to be completed for the student's curriculum. Students should use the degree audit information to help them review progress towards their degrees(s), plan their course of study to complete degree requirements, and select courses for the next term. Graduation evaluators in the Office of the Registrar use the degree audit during the term a student will graduate to determine if the student will meet all degree requirements upon successful completion of the courses on the student's schedule that term. In addition, through AccessPlus, students may request a degree audit for any major available at Iowa State. The audit results will show how their completed and in-progress course work applies toward other majors or options offered at the University. For further information about how completed courses fulfill degree requirements or how other courses will apply toward their degree requirements, students should see their advisor. Catalog in Effect A student may choose to graduate under the catalog in effect at the time of graduation or a catalog for the previous six years, provided it covers a period of the student's enrollment at an accredited college or university. Full requirements of the chosen catalog must be met except that adjustments will be made in instances where courses are no longer available or where programs have been changed. Bachelor's Degree To receive a degree, a student must meet the requirements of the curriculum in which the degree is to be awarded. Verification that the student has met those requirements is made by the dean of the college, who also has the authority to waive a requirement under exceptional circumstances. A minimum of 120-semester credits and a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.00 in all work taken at Iowa State University is required for graduation. A student admitted as a transfer student from another college or university is required to have a 2.25 cumulative grade point average at the time of entrance. A transfer student who has earned an associate's degree is required to have a 2.00 cumulative grade point average at the time of entrance. A student may, however, be admitted with a quality-point deficiency, and will be required to earn sufficient quality-points above a 2.00 at Iowa State to offset the quality-point deficiency at the time of entrance. No more than 65 semester or 97 quarter credits earned at two-year colleges can be applied to a bachelor's degree from Iowa State University. There is no limit to the number of credits that may be transferred from a four-year institution. To qualify for a bachelor's degree, a student must take a minimum of 32 credits in residence at Iowa State University. Also required is that the last 32 credits must be taken in residence, although under special circumstances, with prior written approval of the student's major department, six of the last 32 credits may be transferred and applied toward a degree at Iowa State University. A student who takes work at another college or university after having been enrolled at Iowa State must submit transcripts of all work attempted to the Office of Admissions at Iowa State. This work must average a 2.00 or the deficiency of quality points will be assessed against the student. Failure to submit such transcripts will be grounds for dismissal. In unusual circumstances, the Academic Standards Committees of the respective colleges may review and give further consideration to the records of students who, except for grade-point average, have satisfactorily completed all graduation requirements. If the appropriate college Academic Standards Committee considers that the educational and professional needs of such a student have been satisfactorily met, or can be satisfactorily met by imposing further conditions, the committee may recommend to the dean of the college that the student be graduated or that a supplemental program be accepted in place of the fully unqualified grade point average. The college Academic Standards Committee chairperson reports such exceptional actions to the Faculty Senate Committee on Academic Standards and Admissions. Two Bachelor's Degrees Students may receive two bachelor's degrees if the degree requirements for each major are met, including those for general education requirements, and the total number of semester credits earned is at least 30 more than the requirements of the major requiring the greater number of credits. This rule applies whether or not the degrees are awarded at the same time. Students should have an academic advisor in each major, with one advisor being designated as the registration advisor. Students should request approval to pursue two degrees by completing the Curriculum Change Form. Each advisor will have access to the student's information after this form has been processed. The appropriate department and college must approve each degree program. Students who have earned advanced degrees and wish to earn a second Bachelor's Degree may be eligible for a college waiver of certain basic and general education requirements. Students should contact the department offering the major for advice and appropriate planning. Double Major A double major is a program for a single degree in which all requirements for two or more majors have been met. The majors may be in different colleges or within the same college or department. The diploma and permanent record will designate all majors that are completed at the same time. To declare a double major, students should complete the Curriculum Change Form. This form, available from advisors and classification offices, should be completed at least one term prior to graduation. One major should be designated as primary and the other secondary for purposes of record keeping, but the student's rights and responsibilities are the same in both majors. The advisor of the primary major will serve as the student's registration advisor, but both advisors will have access to the student's information. Degree programs must be approved for each major by the appropriate department and college. One of the majors may subsequently be canceled using the same form. Students in the College of Engineering are able to earn a degree with a second major as long as the second major is within another college, meets all requirements of the additional programs and contains a minimum of 15 additional credits beyond the requirements for a B.S. degree in engineering for each additional area of study. A student with multiple curricula within the College of Engineering is permitted to earn only multiple degrees. All requirements for each curricula must be met plus an additional 30 credits for each curricula being pursued beyond the curriculum which requires the most credits. Students with a primary major in another college who wish to take a second major in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences are not required to meet the Liberal Arts and Sciences General Education requirements. They must, however, meet all requirements for the major, including complementary courses. Students in the B.L.S. curriculum in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences do not have majors. Second Major Completed after the Bachelor's Degree After receiving a bachelor's degree, a person may wish to complete all requirements for another major. Approval of the department of the second major is needed before study for the program is begun. At the completion of the program a notation will be made on the permanent record (transcript), but no change will be made on the diploma received at the time of graduation. A degree program must be approved for the second major by the department and by the dean's office. Changing Major A student's freedom to change their major, and the procedure that should be followed, depend on the student's academic standing and on policies of individual colleges as approved by the provost. If students have never been dismissed and reinstated, they may change their major by consulting first with their advisor. Procedures for changing their major are as follows: If the change involves majors within the same college, they should check with the college office to obtain instructions as to how to make the change. If the change involves majors in different colleges, they should obtain a Curriculum Change Form and their file from their advisor, present these materials to the student services office of their present college, then to the student services office of the college to which they are transferring, and finally to the office of their new major. Students on academic probation (P) may be restricted by rules outlined in the section on Additional Academic Standards Regulations. Students who have been reinstated may not transfer to another college within the university during the first term following reinstatement, and they may not at any time transfer back to the college that originally dismissed them without the permission of the academic standards committee of that college. Undergraduate Minor To declare a minor, students must submit a completed Request for a Minor form to their college office at least one term before graduation. The minor may be from the catalog under which the student is graduating or a later catalog. Requirements for an undergraduate minor are specified by many departments and programs in the university; a record of completion of such requirements appears on a student's transcript. Specific requirements and/or restrictions are available from the department or program offering the minor. An undergraduate minor has the following requirements and understandings: All minors require at least 15 credits, including at least 6 credits taken at Iowa State University in courses numbered 300 or above. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Credits used to meet the minor requirements may also be used to satisfy the credit requirement for graduation and to meet credit requirements in courses numbered 300 or above. Some students may have to exceed the graduation credit requirement set by their college in order to meet the requirements of both the minor and the curriculum/major. Courses taken for a minor may not be taken on a pass-not pass basis. Undergraduate Certificate An undergraduate certificate provides a way to give formal recognition of focused study in a specialized area that is less comprehensive than required for an undergraduate major. The requirements of the certificate program will determine if an associate or baccalaureate degree is required for the award of the certificate. An undergraduate certificate has the following requirements and understandings: A student has received either an associate degree or a baccalaureate degree from any accredited institution or will earn an ISU baccalaureate degree at the same time or before the requirements for the certificate are completed. Admissions Criteria Students earning a certificate with a baccalaureate degree must meet all ISU admission requirements for either freshman (https://www.admissions.iastate.edu/freshman) or transfer students (https://www.admissions.iastate.edu/transfer) Students earning a certificate without an ISU baccalaureate degree apply as a non-degree seeking student and will be asked by Admissions if their intent is to declare a certificate. Students must have earned an associate or baccalaureate degree prior to being admitted to the certificate program. Students should refer to the admissions website (https://www.admissions.iastate.edu/nondegree/undergraduate_requirements) for admission requirements for nondegree undergraduate students. Students must meet any additional admission requirements for the certificate. Requirements for Certificates A minimum of 20 credits, with at least 12 credits taken at ISU which are applied towards the undergraduate certificate requirements. All prerequisite requirements for the certificate must be met as part of fulfilling the requirements for the certificate. At least 9 of the credits taken at Iowa State University must be in courses numbered 300 or above. The certificate must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Credits used to meet the certificate requirements may be used to satisfy the credit requirement for graduation and to meet credit requirements in courses numbered 300 or above. Courses taken for a certificate may not be taken on a pass-not pass basis. A cumulative grade point average of at least 2.00 is required in all courses taken at ISU towards the certificate. A student may not receive both an undergraduate major and a certificate of the same name. Awarding of Certificates The following criteria must be met prior to the award of a certificate: For students earning an ISU baccalaureate degree, a certificate is awarded concurrent with or after the ISU baccalaureate degree. For students that have received a baccalaureate or associate degree from any accredited institution, a certificate is awarded upon completion of the certificate requirements. A notation of a completed certificate will be made on a student's transcript and a printed certificate will be awarded. Communication Proficiency Policy Basic Principles: The faculty of Iowa State University believe that all educated people should be able to communicate effectively in a variety of settings and media, including electronic. Consequently, Iowa State University graduates are expected to develop competence in three interrelated areas of communication: written, oral, and visual. This communication competence can best be achieved through the following five principles: Communication instruction and practice are distributed over the student's entire undergraduate experience, both in and out of the classroom, from the first year through the senior year. Communication instruction and practice are distributed across the curriculum, both in communication courses and in courses in the student's major. Active learning and higher-order thinking are fostered through communication. Faculty across the university share responsibility for the student's progress in communication practices. Both faculty and students engage in ongoing assessment for continuous improvement of the student's communication practices. Iowa State University's communication curriculum, based on these five principles, seeks to enrich the student's understanding of the various subjects studied as well as prepare the student to communicate successfully in professional, civic, and private life. Foundation Courses To ensure that broad communication competence is addressed and developed at the beginning of a university career, all students will earn six credits in the two-course introductory sequence (ENGL 150 Critical Thinking and Communication and ENGL 250 Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition), normally taken in the first and second years. Students will focus on writing and critical reading, with complementary instruction in visual, oral, and electronic communication; they will concentrate on civic and cultural themes; and they will enter work in a communication portfolio to document their current level of proficiency. Communication Proficiency Grade Requirement: At a minimum, students must demonstrate their communication proficiency by earning a grade of C or better in ENGL 250; some majors/degree programs may set higher requirements for communication proficiency. Upper-Level Curricula Continuing development of communication skills will be directed by the student's major department. Using the university's basic principles as a guide, each department will specify a set of intended learning outcomes and design communication experiences by which students in the major can achieve the desired level of communication proficiency. Departments may select from or combine a variety of communication options that best match their faculty, students, and curriculum: designated communication-intensive courses that integrate written, oral, and visual communication into a course in the major; a sequence of courses within the major that incorporates communication tasks of increasing complexity; linked courses—one in communication, one in the major—that integrate readings and assignments; advanced composition course(s) appropriate to the student's major and offering instruction in written, oral, and visual communication; communication-intensive activities within or beyond course work, such as communication portfolios, discipline- or course- specific student tutoring, community service projects, internships, electronic presentations, informational fairs, juried competitions, entrepreneurial projects, newsletters, Web sites. Departments will retain the authority for regularly assessing the degree to which their students achieve the specified learning outcomes and for making curricular improvements based on departmental assessment data. Non-Native Speakers of English: Students admitted to the university who are graduates from non-U.S. high schools and whose first language is not English are required to take the English Placement Test before the beginning of their first semester of enrollment as students at Iowa State. This requirement includes freshmen as well as those who have transferred credit from other institutions. The test is administered by the English Department and is offered before the beginning of each semester. Students whose performance on this placement examination is satisfactory will follow the regular university communication proficiency requirements. Students who have deficiencies will enroll in special English classes, as determined by the test results. U.S. Diversity and International Perspective Requirements One of Iowa State University's goals is to prepare its students to meet the challenges of responsible citizenship and effective professional roles in a culturally diverse global community. To help achieve this goal, all undergraduate students must fulfill graduation requirements in two areas: U.S. Diversity and International Perspectives. The specific standards used to certify students' fulfillment of these requirements vary from major to major, but all require three credits of course work (or the equivalent in some alternative academic experience) for each of the requirements. In most cases, courses used to meet the U.S. Diversity and International Perspectives requirements can also be used to fulfill general education requirements of the student's college or requirements of the student's major. Students should consult with advisors for details of the requirements in particular majors. The focus of the U.S. Diversity requirement is the multicultural society of the United States. Courses or alternative academic work used to meet the requirement address significant manifestations of human diversity and provide students with insights that enhance their understanding of diversity among people in the U.S. List of approved U.S. Diversity Courses Through completion of the U.S. Diversity requirement, students will achieve at least two learning outcomes such as those listed below. Students will be able to: articulate how their personal life experiences and choices fit within the context of the larger mosaic of U.S. society, indicating how they have confronted and critically analyzed their perceptions and assumptions about diversity-related issues. analyze and evaluate the contributions of various underrepresented social groups in shaping the history and culture of the U.S. analyze individual and institutional forms of discrimination based on factors such as race, ethnicity, gender, religion, sexual orientation, class, etc. analyze the perspectives of groups and individuals affected by discrimination analyze how cultural diversity and cooperation among social groups affect U.S. society. The focus of the International Perspectives requirement is the global community. Its objective is to promote students' understanding of cultural diversity and interdependence on a global scale. A period of immersion in a foreign culture is often a particularly effective way of meeting these objectives, so Iowa State University encourages the use of study-abroad experiences as a means of fulfilling the International Perspectives requirement. International students, because they are "studying abroad" from their home country's perspective, are normally deemed to have met the International Perspectives requirement. The International Perspective requirement shall be waived for U.S. military veterans who have completed at least three months of service stationed outside of the United States. List of approved International Perspectives Courses Through completion of the International Perspectives requirement, students will achieve at least two learning outcomes such as those listed below. Students will be able to: analyze the accuracy and relevancy of their own worldviews and anticipate how people from other nations may perceive that worldview. describe and analyze how cultures and societies around the world are formed, are sustained, and evolve. analyze and evaluate the influence of global issues in their own lives. describe the values and perspectives of cultures other than their own and discuss how they influence individuals' perceptions of global issues and/or events. communicate competently in a second language. Academic Grievances and Appeals Students who believe a faculty member (in his or her academic capacity) has behaved unfairly or unprofessionally may have their grievance reviewed through the procedure described below. A student may not initiate an academic grievance more than one year following completion of the course, and may not initiate the grievance of a course grade beyond midterm of the semester following completion of the course. Prior to initiating a formal grievance, a student may wish to discuss the situation informally with the Dean of Students or designee, who can offer advice as to the most effective way to deal with it. Grievances arising out of classroom or other academic situations should be resolved, if at all possible, with the student and the instructor involved. If resolution cannot be reached, or if the grievance involves sexual or racial harassment and the student prefers not to deal directly with the instructor, the student should discuss the grievance with the instructor's department chair and submit it in writing to him or her. The department chair will investigate the grievance, including discussing it with the instructor involved and/or referring it to a departmental grievance committee. The department chair should respond in writing within five class days of receipt of the written notice of the grievance. If the student is not satisfied with the resolution of the grievance proposed by the department chair, the student may appeal within 45 calendar days in writing to the dean of the instructor's college. (In the case of a grievance involving a Graduate College policy or procedure, an appeal of the chair's decision should be directed to the Dean of the Graduate College rather than to the dean of the instructor's college.) The dean will hear the explanations of the department chair and instructor, and should respond to the student in writing within ten class days of receipt of the written notice of the appeal. If the grievance cannot be resolved with the dean, the student may forward within 45 calendar days a written appeal to the provost, who will convene a Committee to Review Student Grievances (see below) to consider the appeal within fifteen calendar class days of receipt of the written notice of the appeal. Within ten calendar days following the convening of the committee, the provost will make a decision with regard to the grievance and will transmit this decision in writing to the grievant, the dean, the department chair, and the instructor. An appeal of the provost's decision may be made within 45 calendar days to the president of the university. The time limit specified at each level may be extended by mutual agreement of all parties concerned. The Committee to Review Student Grievances is composed of faculty members named by the president of the Faculty Senate and students named by the president of the Student Government. The provost may serve as a chairperson for the committee, or may designate another chairperson for a specific grievance hearing. A minimum of two faculty members, two students, and the chairperson shall constitute a quorum for the convening committee. Attendance and Absences Class Attendance In order to attend a given class, a student must be registered for that class for credit or audit. Exceptions to this policy are at the discretion of the instructor of the course. See Index, Validating Enrollment for regulations concerning attendance to validate students' enrollment in a class. Students are expected to attend class meetings as scheduled. Each instructor sets his or her policy with respect to class attendance, and excuses for absence from class are handled between the student and instructor. The instructor is expected to announce his or her policy at the beginning of the course. Additional information regarding discretionary accommodation for disability and religion are available at http://www.hrs.iastate.edu/AAO/eod/reasonaccom.shtml Veteran Attendance In accordance with the requirements of the Servicemembers Improved Transition through Reforms for Ensuring Progress Act (SIT-REP Act, December 31, 2018), the University will not deny access to classes or facilities to a Veteran or eligible dependent due to a late payment from the Veterans Administration. This is only applicable to Veterans or eligible dependents who are receiving educational assistance under Chapter 31 (VR&E) or 33 (Post 9/11 and Fry Scholarship) of title 38, United States Code (U.S.C.). For the purposes of this policy, "Denial of Access" shall be defined as "to prohibit the entry, participation, or attendance to an event or facility otherwise afforded to all registered students." More information about this policy is available at https://catalog.iastate.edu/tuitionfees/#feepaymenttext. Students who receive benefits from the Veterans Administration required by the V.A. to attend class regularly to maintain their V.A. eligibility. If the instructor knows that a student receiving V.A. benefits is not attending class, the instructor is obligated to notify the Office of the Registrar and a notification will be forwarded to the Veterans Administration. More information about veteran benefits is available at http://www.veterans.iastate.edu. Field Trips/Curricular-Related Activities Trips away from campus as part of a course are often appropriate educational experiences. They may not, however, take place during the first or last week of the semester, nor may they extend over more than two consecutive class days (Monday -Friday); these regulations may be waived only by special permission of the dean of the college in which the course is offered. Students should consult with instructors whose classes will be missed. If a mutually satisfactory agreement between thee instructors and the student cannot be reached, the student cannot be required to attend the curricular-related activity or be penalized by the instructor for missing the curricular-related activity. Special fees are often charged to cover the costs of field trips. Field trip fees are noted in the Schedule of Classes. Excusable Absences for Non-Curricular Reasons Students who miss class for non-curricular reasons are responsible for completing all assigned course requirements in a timely manner. Instructors should provide timely opportunities for students to make-up or replace missed scheduled examinations and/or assignments resulting from an excusable absence. While instructors are free to change the format of make-up examinations or assignments, students will be evaluated by the same standards as other members of the class. In all cases, the person responsible for the event or activity should provide participants with a letter explaining the proposed absence and its duration including travel times for off-campus events and activities. Students must provide this documentation to instructors at least 10 days in advance of the activity or event, except when such notice is not possible. Course instructors retain final authority regarding student absences and how they impact course grades and the acceptability of a student’s work toward passing their course. If a student must miss, for any reason, a portion of a course that, in the considered opinion of the course instructor, is critical to the student's ability to meet the course objectives, the instructor must recommend alternative actions to the student, which may include dropping the class. Extra-Curricular Activities as a Representative of the University Students may seek to or be asked to participate as an Iowa State University representative in non-credit events (competitions, conferences, presentations, programs, and performances) scheduled by academic or athletic units of the university at times that conflict with scheduled classes. Instructors shall excuse students who miss class while representing Iowa State University in official department-or university-sponsored activities, including: academic or professional conferences and workshops intercollegiate athletic, academic, and judging competitions musical, theatrical, dance and other artistic performances presentations or programs given to external audiences Other Extra-Curricular Activities Instructors will determine whether other absences not officially sponsored by a unit of the University (e.g., conference attendance, job interviews), will be treated as excused. Military Service Instructors shall excuse absences due to performing required National Guard or other United States military service obligations (other than annual training). When a student is called to active duty for more than two weeks, instructors should meet with the student and the student’s advisor to discuss the situation and academic options. University procedures are in place for such situations and should be followed. Court Appearances Instructors shall excuse absences due to officially mandated court appearances including jury duty. Examinations and Evaluation Evaluation Procedures It is university policy that the instructor shall inform the students at the beginning of each course of the evaluation procedures planned for use in the course. Retention of Records Records of all graded work must be retained by the instructors until midterm of the semester following completion of a course or until all pending appeals and incompletes are resolved, whichever is later. Instructors leaving the university must file records of all graded work with their department office before departure. Examinations Examinations are one of the most common ways instructors assess student performance. In order that examinations can be a useful part of the educational process, the following policies have been instituted: One purpose of examinations is to help students' learning. Therefore, examinations should be evaluated as soon as possible after they are given and the results should be made available to the students in a timely way to enhance learning. All tests and examinations administered between the beginning of the term and final examination week shall be held during a regularly scheduled lecture or laboratory class period for that course. A department may obtain approval to administer a separately scheduled examination if all of the following criteria are met: The course is multi-sectioned. A common departmentally developed examination will be administered to all students in all sections at the same time. The test scores will be used as a basis for a uniform grading procedure for all sections of the course. Requests to hold separately scheduled examinations must be made to the registrar and approved by the provost in time to be announced in the Schedule of Classes to allow students to plan in advance. Only under unusual circumstances will a course be approved for separately scheduled examinations if the deadline is past to include notification in the Schedule of Classes. Whenever a separately scheduled examination is administered, a regular class meeting during that week shall be omitted. Students who are unable to take a separately scheduled examination at the scheduled time indicated in the Schedule of Classes, because of a course conflict or other legitimate reason must notify the instructor in advance and must be given the opportunity to be examined at another time mutually convenient for the student and the instructor. The instructor shall determine whether to administer the same examination or an alternate examination, or use an alternate assessment procedure. At the end of the semester, a week is set aside for final examinations or other term evaluations, with a two-hour period normally scheduled for each course. The following policies govern the responsibilities of students and faculty members during this week: Final exams may not be given at a time other than that for which the exam is scheduled by the registrar. An instructor may not give a final exam prior to final exam week nor change the time of offering of the final examination as it appears in the final exam schedule. Permission to change the time for which an exam is scheduled may be given only by the dean of the college. If the instructor elects not to give a final exam in a course of two or more credits, the class is required to meet at the scheduled final exam period for other educational activity such as a review of the course or feedback on previous exams. Final exam periods are determined according to the regularly scheduled meeting time of the class. However, certain courses are assigned special group exam times so that several sections of the same course may be tested together. The criteria for establishing special group exams are similar to those listed for separately scheduled exams listed in number 2 above. If this results in conflicting group examination periods, students should inform the instructor in charge of the first of the two conflicting courses as listed on the final exam schedule within the special groups in question; that instructor is responsible for arranging a special examination or making some other adjustment. Evening courses with lectures scheduled at 6:00 p.m. or later should give their examinations during finals week from 7:00-9:00 p.m. on the day the class normally meets. If this exam conflicts with an evening group exam, the instructor responsible for the latter must arrange a special examination for any students who have a conflict. If unusual circumstances involve the need for students to change the time of their final examination, they must obtain the approval of the instructor of the course. If a student has three examinations scheduled on the same calendar day and wishes to change one to another day, the instructor of the course having the smallest number of students is responsible for arranging an alternate examination time for the student unless make-up exam times are available in one of the other courses. All faculty members and teaching assistants with instructional or grading responsibilities are considered to be on duty throughout the entire final examination week and are expected to be available to students during that week for discussion of any matters pertaining to the final examination and final grade or to other aspects of the course. Prep Week For each Fall and Spring semester, the last full week of classes before final examinations is designated as Prep Week. The intent of this policy is to establish a one-week period of substantial and predictable study time for undergraduate students. During the Prep Week period, regular lectures are expected to continue, including the introduction of new content, as deemed appropriate by the instructor. The restrictions established by this Prep Week policy are: Due dates for mandatory graded submissions of any kind that fall within Prep Week must be listed on the syllabus provided at the start of the course. Mandatory final examinations may not be given during the Prep Week period except for laboratory courses or courses that meet weekly and for which there is no contact during the normal final examination week. Registered ISU Student Organizations may not hold any meetings, functions, or sponsored events during the Prep Week period. Any exception to these restrictions must be authorized in advance by Office of the Dean of Students. Scholastic Recognition The university recognizes those students who are doing exceptionally well in several ways, including the following. 1. Dean's List. Each semester the university issues a dean's list made up of those students who have carried at least 12 credit hours of graded or S-F courses with a 3.50 grade-point average or above for the semester. Courses taken on a P-NP basis do not count as part of the 12-credit hour requirement. No dean's list is issued for summer school. The list can be viewed from the Office of the Registrar website. 2. Top 2 Percent. Each spring semester, undergraduate students in the top 2% of their class (freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior) within their college, based on cumulative grade point average, are recognized. In addition to a congratulatory letter from the university president, a notation of the accomplishment is recorded on the student's permanent record. 3. Graduation with Distinction. Undergraduates who have a cumulative grade point average of 3.50 or higher (based on a 4.0 scale) are eligible to graduate "with distinction" provided they have completed the following criteria for their degree. The student's distinction will be based upon their cumulative grade point average after all degree requirements have been satisfied. These students are recognized as follows: Summa Cum Laude: cumulative grade point average of 3.90 or higher. Magna Cum Laude: cumulative grade point average of 3.70 to 3.89. Cum Laude: cumulative grade point average of 3.50 to 3.69. The recognition appears on the student's official transcript and diploma. Candidates for a bachelor's degree may graduate "with distinction" provided they have completed 60 semester credits of coursework at Iowa State University at the time of graduation, including a minimum of 50 graded credits. Candidates for the bachelor of liberal studies degree may graduate "with distinction" provided that they have (a) completed 45 semester credits of coursework at the three Iowa Regent universities at the time of graduation, and (b) earned at least a 3.50 cumulative grade point average at ISU. The graduation with distinction recognition will be based on their combined grade point average for coursework taken at the three Iowa Regent universities. Candidates for the bachelor of science in nursing degree may graduate "with distinction" provided that they have completed 32 semester credits of coursework at ISU at the time of graduation. Honors Program. Students who are full members of the University Honors Program prior to Fall Semester 2011 must have a cumulative grade point average of 3.35 or higher at the beginning of their final term. Students becoming full members during Fall Semester 2011 or later need a cumulative grade point average of 3.5 at the beginning of their final term. In addition to meeting the appropriate grade point requirement, students will have completed an approved honors program of study and an honors project prior to graduation. This recognition appears on the student's permanent record and diploma, and in the commencement program. Graduation Seniors must file a graduation application with the Graduation Office, 210 Enrollment Services Center. Students will be notified of their graduation status approximately mid semester of their graduation term. For graduation application instructions and deadlines, go to the Graduation and Commencement website. Iowa State University commencement ceremonies are held at the end of fall and spring semesters. Undergraduate students expected to graduate at the end of summer semester are invited to participate in the spring ceremony preceding their graduation term or the fall ceremony following their graduation term. In addition to the formal University commencement ceremony, the undergraduate colleges host graduation activities take place at the end of fall and spring semesters. For more information see www.registrar.iastate.edu/graduation/ Verification of satisfactory final grades will be completed approximately two weeks after the end of the semester and diplomas will be mailed to all successful degree candidates. Students must ensure the following before they can graduate: Registration for the term has been completed and the date of graduation is correct on the degree audit printout. Sufficient credits, acceptable toward graduation, have been earned to meet the minimum requirements for their curriculum. (Some examples of credit not acceptable toward graduation are: elective credits beyond those allowed in a curriculum, credits earned in passing the same course more than once, more than four credits of Athletics 101, and credit in two courses for which the catalog states that only one may count toward graduation.) They have achieved a set of communication competencies established by the department as appropriate for the major. A cumulative grade point average of at least 2.00 was earned in all work taken at Iowa State; and student has met all special grade point average requirements established by their college, department, or program in specified courses. Students admitted from another college or university with a quality-point deficiency, must have earned sufficient quality points above a 2.00 at Iowa State to offset their transfer grade point deficiency. Students who have taken work at another college or university prior to or after having been a student at Iowa State, must have submitted a transcript of all such college study attempted to the Office of Admissions. This work must average 2.00 or the deficiency of quality points will be assessed against the student. Failure to submit such a transcript is grounds for dismissal. Incompletes in courses required for graduation have been removed by midterm of the term of graduation. At least 32 credits have been earned in residence at Iowa State University, and the final 32 credits were taken at Iowa State. (Six of the last 32 credits may be transferred to Iowa State, with prior permission of their major department.) Iowa State University must receive an official transcript of all transfer work by midterm of the term of graduation. Outstanding financial obligations owed the university have been paid in full. Students who owe an outstanding obligation to the university will have a hold placed on their records and they will not receive their transcripts. If students have questions about this policy, they should contact the graduation area of the Office of the Registrar. Posthumous Degrees and Certificates of Attendance If a deceased student was very close to earning their degree at the time of their passing (e.g., within 18 credits for an undergraduate degree), the degree can be awarded posthumously. In the case of a student pursuing a graduate degree that requires the completion of a research project and the writing of a thesis or dissertation, the project must be substantially completed and a draft version of the thesis or dissertation must be passed upon by the Program of Study Committee. Inquiries relative to the possibility of a posthumous degree for a deceased student should be referred to the Dean of the student's college. If the Dean supports awarding the posthumous degree, the recommendation must be forwarded to the Provost for consideration and final decision. In some cases the department and/or college may wish to recognize the attendance and/or contributions of a deceased student who is not close to graduating by presenting a posthumous Certificate of Attendance to the family of the deceased student. The request to present a posthumous Certificate of Attendance should be referred to the Dean of the student's college for approval and recommendation to the Provost for consideration and final decision. Certificates of Attendance do not require a minimum period of attendance, and academic degree requirements are not relevant. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.