Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Psychology, Clinical, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (60 units) The Master of Science program combines training in scientific and applied areas of clinical psychology. It is based on the scientist-practitioner model. It prepares students for professional work in a variety of settings and for doctoral training in academic and professional programs in clinical psychology. The M.S. program provides supervised research and clinical fieldwork experience. It prepares the student for the Marriage, Family Therapy (MFT) and Licensed Professional Clinical Counselor (LPCC) licenses. The M.S. Program accepts full-time students only. Part-time study is not possible. Students must complete coursework in the prescribed sequence. The program involves intensive fieldwork experience in clinical settings, emphasizing careful supervision, which includes weekly meetings with Psychology Department faculty and off-campus fieldwork supervisors. Admission to Graduate Standing - Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. Applicants are rarely admitted with less than a 3.0 overall grade-point average. In addition, applicants who meet the following requirements may be considered for classified graduate standing upon development of an approved study plan: a 3.0 grade-point average in psychology; the following courses, or equivalent; Lower Division PSYC 101 - Introductory Psychology (3) PSYC 201 - Introduction to Statistics in Psychology (3) PSYC 202 - Research Methods in Psychology (3) Upper Division PSYC 341 - Abnormal Psychology (3) PSYC 461 - Psychological Testing and Assessment (3) with a “B-” (2.7) or better (completed prior to admission or within the first semester) PSYC 465 - Advanced Psychological Statistics (3) with a “B-” (2.7) or better (completed prior to admission or within the first year) satisfactory performance on both the General and Advanced Psychology tests of the Graduate Record Examination; three satisfactory letters of recommendation; meet the university’s Writing Proficiency Requirement; previous paid or volunteer work in a mental health setting, ideally supervised by a licensed clinician and may include an internship or field placement class; empirical research (outside of coursework) supervised by a professor. This may include independent study, honors thesis, etc.; and completion of a selection interview. New students are admitted to the Master of Science program in the fall only. Those admitted will be selected in the spring from the most qualified applicants at the sole discretion of the M.S. Program Graduate Studies Committee. An interview of the finalists is required. In addition to the university application, a departmental application form, obtainable at psychology.fullerton.edu/academics/ms_prog.asp, must be completed. University applications must be submitted online. The application deadline for submitting all materials, including GRE scores, is March 1. Incomplete applications will not be considered. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified It may be possible for applicants who have minimal deficiencies in the prerequisite requirements detailed above, but who are otherwise highly qualified, to be admitted with conditionally classified graduate standing. Provisions must be made for removal of deficiencies prior to the granting of classified standing. For further information, consult the graduate program adviser. Study Plan The Master of Science in Psychology requires approved graduate work, including the completion and acceptance by the department of a written thesis that has been defended orally. Students, in consultation with their program adviser, shall develop a study plan that will be submitted to the M.S. Program Graduate Studies Committee for approval. To be advanced to candidacy, students must receive a grade of “B-” (2.7) or better on all study plan courses and maintain a 3.0 grade point average overall. Core Courses (12 units) PSYC 501 - Professional and Legal Issues (3) PSYC 510 - Research Design (3) PSYC 520T - Seminar: Advanced Topics in Psychological Research (3) PSYC 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) Clinical Courses (30 units) PSYC 535 - Addictions Counseling (3) PSYC 545 - Advanced Psychopathology (3) PSYC 547 - Theories of Psychological Intervention (3) PSYC 548 - Psychotherapy Techniques (3) PSYC 549 - Marriage, Family and Child Therapy (3) PSYC 560 - Child and Adolescent Treatment (3) PSYC 561 - Clinical Psychology Assessment (3) PSYC 569 - Cross-Cultural Psychology (3) PSYC 594A - Fieldwork (3) PSYC 594B - Fieldwork (3) Electives (12 units) Elective coursework must be approved by the Graduate Program Coordinator. Thesis (6 units) PSYC 598 - Thesis Research (3-6) Additional Information Successfully completing coursework is not sufficient to permit continuation in the program. In addition, faculty judgment must be satisfied with respect to the student’s effectiveness and professional and ethical behavior in dealing with clients. Continuation in the program is contingent upon satisfactory performance in all aspects of the program as judged by the Graduate Studies Committee. Total (60 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).