Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Theatre Arts, Directing Concentration, M.F.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Master of Fine Arts in Theatre Arts (60 UNITS) This degree is for students who desire a professionally oriented education and training in design and technical production, acting and directing. Based on a student’s previous undergraduate or professional experience, substitutions or revisions in the study plan might be appropriate. Average length of time to complete the program is three years. At the end of each semester, M.F.A. candidates shall be evaluated by a faculty committee. The committee, by recommendation to the Associate Vice President for Academic Programs, has the authority to retain, dismiss or place candidates on probation. To be retained in the M.F.A. Acting program, students must prepare an acting demonstration (jury) at the end of each semester. The performance faculty will assess each student at this time and determine if the student warrants retention or dismissal from the program based on a set of predetermined criteria. In addition to the acting jury, each student will be assessed on professionalism, collegiality and progress in coursework and departmental productions. Application Deadlines Applications for the Directing and Acting Concentrations are accepted in the fall semester only in odd-numbered years (i.e., Fall 2009, 2011, etc.) for admission in even-numbered years (i.e. Fall 2010, 2012, etc.) Applications for the Design/Technical Production Concentration are accepted every fall semester. The deadline for completing online applications is March 1 for the following fall semester; mailed applications also need to be postmarked by March 1. This deadline may change based upon enrollment projections. Call the Theatre and Dance Department (657-278-3628) to satisfy additional requirements for consideration, including auditions for actors, interviews for directors and design portfolios for design/production students. Admission to Graduate Standing - Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants must meet the following for admission to the program and classified standing: B.A., B.F.A. or M.A. from an accredited college or university with a major in theatre; or a degree in a related field and extensive work in technical design and production, acting or directing; completion of an oral interview and satisfactory review of the student’s portfolio or audition; acceptance by the faculty; minimum GPA of 3.0 in all upper-division undergraduate work in theatre. A minimum GPA of 2.75 for the last half of the undergraduate program is also required; completion of any additional prerequisites which may be required by the student’s individual committee prior to classification; selection of a graduate adviser and committee. Total committee membership should be three or four faculty members, including the adviser; submission of a formal M.F.A. study program approved by the individual committee, the department graduate adviser and the dean of graduate studies; and meet the Graduate Writing Requirement. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified Students who do not meet certain prerequisites may be considered for admission in conditionally classified graduate standing. Consult the graduate program adviser. Directing Concentration Course Requirements (60 units) THTR 470A - Advanced Directing I (3) THTR 470B - Advanced Directing II (3) THTR 500 - Introduction to Graduate Study in Theatre (3) THTR 563 - Acting Studio (3) THTR 565 - Dramatic Textual Analysis (3) THTR 575 - Seminar in Theatre History (3) THTR 577 - Graduate Seminar: Costume Design (3) THTR 578 - Graduate Seminar: Scene Design (3) THTR 582A - Camera Techniques for the Actor and Director (3) THTR 582B - Camera Techniques for the Actor and Director (3) THTR 586 - Graduate Seminar: Lighting Design (3) THTR 588A - Graduate Projects in Design and Technical Theatre (3) THTR 588B - Graduate Projects in Design and Technical Theatre (3) (must repeat once for credit) THTR 597 - Project (1-3) (must repeat once for credit) THTR 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) (must repeat once for credit) 3 units of adviser-approved electives M.F.A. Projects in Directing The M.F.A. in Directing Program requires the completion of three creative projects that have been approved by the individual’s committee and are of sufficient challenge and complexity. These projects shall be mounted and presented by the Department of Theatre and Dance as a portion of its production program. The program shall culminate in a project book submitted by the M.F.A. candidate to the individual’s committee. The project book will clearly and objectively articulate the process of formulating the final main stage project from initial concept to critical reaction, utilizing experiences and material discovered through classroom participation and the development of the production. Total (60 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).