Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Art, Crafts (including Jewelry/Metalsmithing and Woodworking) Concentration, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Master of Arts in Art (30 UNITS) This program provides a balance of study and practice for those who wish a career in the visual arts, or who want to prepare for further graduate work in the field. The program offers the following areas of concentration: art history; ceramics; crafts (including wood, jewelry/metalsmithing); creative photography; drawing and painting (including printmaking); exhibition design; glass; graphic design; illustration; and sculpture. Application Deadlines The Art Department has a supplemental application process required for all prospective graduate students. See fullerton.edu/arts/art for further information. Admission Requirements Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants must meet the following: Classified Standing Baccalaureate degree in art with the same concentration as the graduate degree objective from an accredited institution, or 24 upper-division units in art, 12 of which must be in the concentration completed with a “B” (3.0) or better in all courses. Applicants are advised that most upper-division courses require lower-division prerequisites; pass the semianual comprehensive portfolio review. The comprehensive portfolio review is an evaluation of the candidate by a committee comprising faculty teaching in the area of concentration. The committee reviews the student’s creative work, statement of purpose, academic and other relevant qualifications. Procedures, dates and appointment times are available through the Art Department Graduate Office. If the student’s portfolio is not adequate, the applicant may still be recommended for conditionally classified standing by the faculty comprehensive review committee. However, the comprehensive portfolio review must be repeated; form a graduate committee; and develop an approved study plan. Note: A reading knowledge of a foreign language is required before advancement to candidacy in the Art History program. Conditionally Classified Standing The same requirement as 1, above, plus: Studio program - Participation in comprehensive portfolio review with a recommendation by the committee of conditional acceptance. Art History program - Satisfactory review of research papers by art history faculty Enrollment is allowed in graduate-level courses with the exception of ART 500A , ART 500B ; ART 511 ; ART 512 ; ART 597 and ART 598 Passing the comprehensive review will be required for classified standing Study Plan The study plan requires approval by the student’s graduate committee, 15 units must be 500-level courses. The plan must be completed with “C” (2.0) or better, a “B” (3.0) average, and “B” (3.0) or better in all courses in the area of concentration. The 30 units are distributed as follows: Core courses (9 units) Studio Program ART 500A - Graduate Seminar in Major Field (3) * ART 500B - Graduate Seminar in Major Field (3) * Art History Program ART 511 - Seminar on the Content and Method of Art History (3) * ART 512 - Seminar on Selected Topics in Art History (3) * 400-level course in art history, theory, analysis or criticism on the recommendation of the major adviser. Concentration (12 units) 500-and/or 400-level courses in an area of concentration (minimum of six units at 500-level) Additional Coursework (3-6 units) Courses in the area of concentration or approved electives Project/Thesis Every graduate student is required to demonstrate writing ability commensurate with the baccalaureate degree. Two graduate seminars are certified to fulfill this university requirement. The Department of Art requires the studio candidate for the Master of Arts in Art to exhibit the project in one of the department’s graduate galleries. The art history candidate is required to submit a written thesis based on a specific topic of research. For further information, consult the graduate program adviser and read the University Graduate Regulations section of this catalog. ART 597 - Project (3-6) or ART 598 - Thesis (3) Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).