Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Human Development and Family Studies Department Select a section... Undergraduate Curricula Undergraduate Minors Graduate Graduate Minors Graduate Certificates Courses Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Human Sciences > Human Development and Family Studies The Department of Human Development and Family Studies offers courses that focus on the interactions among individuals, families, their resources, and their environments throughout the life span. The department offers work for the Bachelor of Science degree in five curricula: Early Childhood Education, Family and Consumer Sciences Education and Studies, Financial Counseling and Planning, Human Development and Family Studies, and an affiliated program: Early Childcare Education and Programming (a distance education program offered in collaboration with six other universities). Students graduating in Human Development and Family Studies will 1. Communicate with clear purpose, workable organization and effective style in written, oral, visual and electronic (WOVE) formats to foster collaboration, provide information and advance knowledge related to child, adult, family, and community services. 2. Consistently and realistically analyze and evaluate one’s own knowledge, abilities and actions in comparison to professional standards and create action plans to enhance personal and professional efficacy related to working with children, adults, families and communities. 3. Understand content related to working with children, adults, families, and communities within a chosen program. Use critical thinking skills to evaluate and utilize evidence-based practices. Use logical and ethical reasoning to make decisions and solve problems. 4. Understand the diverse needs of children, adults, and families. Ensure equitable access of children, adults, and families to appropriate environments that support healthy living. Engage children, adults, and families with socially responsible and respectful behavior. Communication Proficiency requirement: A student must achieve a grade of C or higher in ENGL 150, Critical Thinking and Communication, and ENGL 250, Written, Oral, Visual, and Electronic Composition. A student achieving a grade of C– or lower in 150 and/or 250 must either repeat the course(s), earning a minimum grade of C, or, in consultation with the advisor and the coordinator of freshman English, complete another appropriate English writing course with a minimum grade of C. The Human Development and Family Studies curriculum leads to work in helping professions with employment opportunities in public and private agencies. Graduates of the program are prepared for employment in agencies and organizations serving children, youth, families, and adults in the areas of education/prevention, treatment, and administration. This flexible program provides a broad emphasis in theory, research, and application in child, adult and family services including attention to community issues and public policy. Students in Human Development and Family Studies may choose coursework that leads to becoming a Certified Family Life Educator (CFLE), a program that has been approved by the National Council on Family Relations. These courses provide the basic education for students interested in working with families, including adolescents, parents, or adults working to strengthen relationships. The student takes courses that support the development of knowledge and skills in family life content areas selected by the National Council on Family Relations. The certification is a voluntary credential that requires the individual to complete a degree in an approved program and to have at least two years of work experience in family life education settings. Iowa State University does not grant the Certified Family Life Educator credential. The certification is granted only by the National Council on Family Relations. See https://hdfs.hs.iastate.edu/future-students/find-your-major/certified-family-life-educator/ and/or http://www.ncfr.org/cfle-certification . The curriculum in Early Childhood Education – Unified prepares graduates to teach young children and work with their families. This curriculum has been approved by the Iowa Department of Education and meets requirements for candidates to seek teacher licensure in early childhood education – unified, which permits individuals to teach general and special education for children from birth through third grade. Graduates may be employed by either public or private agencies or schools to teach in early childhood classrooms (preschool through third grade) or in home-based programs. The program is an interdepartmental major administered by the Department of Human Development and Family Studies and the School of Education. For more information about the program, see https://hdfs.hs.iastate.edu/find-your-major/early-childhood-education/. Students who enroll in the early childhood education – unified program must apply to and be accepted into the teacher education program prior to enrolling in advanced courses. Family and Consumer Sciences Education and Studies offers a curriculum for the Bachelor of Science degree. (http://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofhumansciences/familyandconsumerscienceseducationandstudies) The curriculum in Family and Consumer Sciences Education and Studies (FCEDS) prepares graduates with a broad understanding of individual and family well-being. Graduates apply knowledge and research in family and consumer sciences content in global professional settings. They work in an integrative fashion to improve well-being by addressing and acting on complex problems confronting individuals, families, and communities. The study of Family and Consumer Sciences Education incorporates the following 16 content areas: Career, Community and Family Connections; Consumer and Family Resources; Consumer Services; Education and Early Childhood; Facilities Management and Maintenance; Family; Family and Community Services; Food Production and Services; Food Science, Dietetics, and Nutrition; Hospitality, Tourism and Recreation; Housing and Interior Design; Human Development; Interpersonal Relationship; Nutrition and Wellness; Parenting; and Textiles, Fashion and Apparel. Students in the program choose one of three options, Teacher Licensure, Communications, or Professional Studies. Students in Family and Consumer Sciences Education and Studies may choose coursework that leads to becoming a Certified Family Life Educator (CFLE), a program that has been approved by the National Council on Family Relations. These courses provide the basic education for students interested in working with families, including adolescents, parents, or adults working to strengthen relationships. The student takes courses that support the development of knowledge and skills in family life content areas selected by the National Council on Family Relations. The certification is a voluntary credential that requires the individual to complete a degree in an approved program and to have at least two years of work experience in family life education settings. Iowa State University does not grant the Certified Family Life Educator credential. The certification is granted only by the National Council on Family Relations. See https://hdfs.hs.iastate.edu/future-students/find-your-major/certified-family-life-educator/ and/or http://www.ncfr.org/cfle-certification. Graduates may also choose from one of several nationally recognized professional certifications available from the American Association of Family and Consumer Sciences (AAFCS) Council for Certification. This program measures competencies of FCS professionals using high-quality, rigorous assessments. Certifications that are currently available are (http://www.aafcs.org/home): CFCS: Certified in Family and Consumer Sciences; CFCS-HDFS: Certified in Human Development and Family Studies; CFCS-HNFS: Certified in Hospitality, Nutrition, and Food Science; and CPFFE: Certified Personal and Family Finance Educator. There is also an opportunity to take courses that will allow you to be recommended for a family and consumer sciences endorsement or teacher licensure as a post baccalaureate student. The Financial Counseling and Planning (FCP) curriculum prepares students for careers in family financial services. Financial Counseling and Planning is a growing career field and appeals to students who want to work with individuals and families to help them meet their financial goals and improve their financial capability to better meet financial challenges. Coursework provides students with the family resource management and interpersonal skills needed to help families remain financially secure. Based on career goals, students select a path that leads to fulfilling the education requirements for the leading designations and certifications in financial counseling and planning. Graduates of the program are prepared for employment in personal banking, financial services, insurance, financial counseling and planning, and human service organizations. Laboratory and practicum opportunities exist in the Iowa State University Financial Counseling Clinic and with program partners in the financial services industry. A field work experience helps students apply their studies and experience the profession in real-world settings. Financial Counseling and Planning majors are also prepared to enter graduate programs in family financial planning, financial education, economics, finance, and law. Juniors and seniors in Financial Counseling and Planning who are interested in graduate study may apply for concurrent enrollment in the Graduate College to simultaneously pursue both a B.S. in Financial Counseling and Planning and a M.S. in Human Development and Family Studies or a B.S. in Financial Counseling and Planning and a Graduate Certificate in Family Financial Planning. Under concurrent enrollment, students simultaneously take undergraduate and graduate courses and may be eligible for assistantships. See Graduate Study for more information (https://hdfs.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/). The Financial Counseling and Planning major is registered with Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards Inc. as a CFP Board-registered Program. ISU courses satisfy CFP Board's education requirement, allowing an individual to sit for the CFP® Certification Examination. Iowa State University does not certify individuals to use the CFP® CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER™ title. CFP certification is granted only by Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards Inc. to those persons who, in addition to completing an educational requirement such as this CFP Board-Registered Program, have met its ethics, experience and examination requirements (CFP Board of Standards website https://www.cfp.net/). Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards Inc. owns the certification marks CFP®, CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER™ and the federally registered CFP (with flame logo), which it awards to individuals who successfully complete initial and ongoing certification requirements. FCP majors also satisfy the education requirements for the Accredited Financial Counselor (AFC®) designation offered through the Association for Financial Counseling and Planning Education (AFCPE). Affiliated Programs The Early Childcare Education and Programming (E C P) curriculum, offered by the Great Plains Interactive Distance Education Alliance (GPIDEA), is designed to prepare graduates to work in a variety of early care and education programs in local communities and on military installations. Some of these programs are childcare centers and homes, infant/toddler and preschool programs, Head Start programs, and before and after-school programs for children ages birth to eight. This is an online program offered through a collaboration of seven universities as part of GPIDEA where the program is referred to as Early Care and Education for a Mobile Society. For more information see https://www.gpidea.org/program/early-care-and-education-in-a-mobile-society. The E C P curriculum is designed to provide content for the final two years of a student’s program; the content is focused specifically on topics directly relevant to the major. Students will complete a total of 120 credits for the major, 51 of which are specific to the E C P curriculum. These 51 credit hours are comprised of 12 core courses and 3 practica; the final practicum will be a 6-credit capstone experience. Students must complete 30 credits of college work, a lifespan development course, and have a 2.5 GPA to be admitted to E C P. If students prefer to be admitted to ISU before being admitted to the E C P major, they can enroll as Pre ECP (P ECP) students until they are eligible for the E C P major. For more information about the program at Iowa State, see https://online.hs.iastate.edu/early-childcare-programming. Curricula: Early Childhood Education — Unified Family and Consumer Sciences Education and Studies Financial Counseling and Planning Human Development and Family Studies Affiliated Program: Early Childcare Education and Programming (GPIDEA program) Minors The department offers minors in Human Development and Family Studies and Financial Counseling and Planning. Minors consist of at least 15 credits including 6 credits taken at Iowa State University in courses numbered 300 or above. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. The Human Development and Family Studies minor may be earned by completing 15 credits HD FS 102 Individual and Family Development, Health, and Well-being 3 One of the following: 3 HD FS 223 Child Development and Health HD FS 226 Development and Guidance in Middle Childhood HD FS 227 Adolescence and Emerging Adulthood HD FS 234 Adult Development HD FS 249 Parenting and Family Diversity Issues HD FS 270 Family Communications and Relationships HD FS 377 Aging and the Family Three of the following: 9 HD FS 276 Human Sexuality HD FS 360 Housing and Services for Families and Children HD FS 367 Abuse and Illness in Families HD FS 373 Death as a Part of Living HD FS 387 Applying Evidence-Based Practices in Human Services HD FS 395 Children, Families, and Public Policy HD FS 449 Program Evaluation and Proposal Writing HD FS 479 Family Interaction Dynamics Total Credits 15 The Education Services in Family and Consumer Sciences minor may be earned by completing 15 credits HD FS 102 Individual and Family Development, Health, and Well-being 3 FCEDS 206 Professional Roles in Family and Consumer Sciences 2 FCEDS 306 Educational Principles for Family and Consumer Sciences 4 FCEDS 413 Planning and Assessment for Family and Consumer Sciences 3 One of the following: 3 FCEDS 418 Foundations of Career and Technical Education in Family and Consumer Sciences HD FS 341 Household Finance and Policy HD FS 360 Housing and Services for Families and Children HD FS 367 Abuse and Illness in Families HD FS 373 Death as a Part of Living HD FS 395 Children, Families, and Public Policy The Financial Counseling and Planning minor may be earned by completing 15 credits HD FS 283 Personal and Family Finance 3 Twelve credits from the following: 12 HD FS 239 Consumer Issues HD FS 341 Household Finance and Policy HD FS 378 Retirement Planning and Employee Benefits HD FS 383 Fundamentals of Financial Planning HD FS 384 Family Insurance Planning HD FS 482 Family Savings and Investments HD FS 484 Estate Planning for Families HD FS 485 Capstone: Family Financial Planning HD FS 489 Financial Counseling HD FS 489L Financial Counseling Laboratory Total Credits 15 Graduate Study The department offers work for the Master of Science (thesis or non-thesis options) and Doctor of Philosophy degrees with the major in Human Development and Family Studies. Minors are also available for students taking major work in other departments. Graduates of M.S. and Ph.D. programs in the department will understand and apply relevant theories to educational, research, and/or intervention or prevention programs. It is intended that they will produce and disseminate research results and provide leadership in human development and family studies professions. Graduate study in Human Development and Family Studies at Iowa State University is multidisciplinary and focuses on research and practice in several content areas such as adolescent/youth development, adult development and aging, family studies and policy, family economic well-being and financial planning, infant and child development, health and well-being; and lifespan development. Prerequisite to work in the major is the completion of a related undergraduate program with basic courses and/or experiences in areas such as child/human development, community and regional planning, economics, education, family studies, psychology, or sociology. Additional coursework or prerequisites (e.g., basic statistics) may be required depending on the undergraduate program and program of study. Students may be admitted to our doctoral program with either a bachelor's (M.S./Ph.D. Track, 5 years) or a master's degree (Ph.D. Track only, 3 years). Students admitted to the Ph.D. Track without a prior master's degree complete requirements for a thesis-based master's degree as part of their doctoral program of study. All students take a core set of courses; the program of study is then completed with a selection of courses that meet the individual needs of the student. The variety of and flexibility in the coursework allows a student to tailor a program to specific academic interests. The graduate programs are based on a theory, research, and application interactive paradigm with all three areas integrated into content and method courses. The department offers a graduate minor in Human Development and Family Studies. For more detailed information about the minor, see the Graduate Minors tab. The department also offers four Graduate Certificates available to HD FS majors as well as students in other departments and professionals in the field. The department also participates in several Master of Family and Consumer Sciences (MFCS) degree programs (http://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofhumansciences/familyandconsumersciences/). Admission to the youth (YTH), family financial planning (FFP) and gerontology (GERON) specialization programs require submission of the Graduate College application form, transcripts, 2 letters of recommendation, resume and a goal statement. Students in a MFCS program select one of the options listed below. Master of Family and Consumer Sciences - Human Development and Family Studies (MFCS-HDFS). The Master of Family and Consumer Sciences degree specialization track in Human Development and Family Studies (HDFS) provides students with the opportunity to enhance their background knowledge and skills for working with children and families (37 credits). Master of Family and Consumer Sciences - Youth Development (MFCS-YD). This is an entirely online degree focusing on the skills to serve today's young people. The degree uses a strengths-based curriculum that supports you to grow socially, emotionally, and cognitively. There are also two youth development related certificates available for students (see Graduate Certificates tab for details) (36 credits). Master of Family and Consumer Sciences - Family Financial Planning Program (MFCS-FFP). This is a master's degree program offered entirely online, designed to prepare individuals to work in the financial planning field (36 credits). Completion of course work in the master's degree or a graduate certificate meets the educational requirements to sit for the Certified Financial Planner (CFP) Board of Standards Certification Examination. The department offers a Financial Counseling and Planning (FCP) concurrent degree program that allows students to obtain a B.S. in FCP and an M.S. in HD FS or a B.S. in FCP and a Graduate Certificate in Family Financial Planning in 5 years. Application for admission to the Graduate College should be made near the end of the junior year. Under concurrent enrollment, students simultaneously take undergraduate and graduate courses and may be eligible for assistantships. Students interested in these programs should contact the department for details. Finally, the department collaborates with the interdepartmental Gerontology program; students may declare a minor in Gerontology. The Master of Family and Consumer Sciences - Gerontology program (MFCS-GERON) and the Graduate Gerontology Certificate program are designed to prepare professionals who work directly with older people or are involved in education and research related to older adults. Professionals offering direct services often are involved in health promotion programs, directing inter-generational activities, managing senior centers or retirement communities, counseling older people and their families, and helping people plan for retirement. Professionals involved in education and research may evaluate community-based services, teach others about the aging process, develop policies and programs to serve the needs of older adults, and work with business and industry on issues related to an aging work force. Graduate Minors The department offers a graduate minor in Human Development and Family Studies. To earn this minor, students in a Master’s program must take 9 credits in HD FS graduate courses (500, 600 level) with a limit of 3 credits in seminar or workshop credit (credits in 591 or 691 not allowed). To earn a minor in HD FS students in a Doctoral program must take 12 credits in HD FS graduate courses (500, 600 level) with a limit of 3 credits in seminar or workshop credit (credits in 591 or 691 not allowed). A graduate faculty member from the minor program must serve on the student’s POS Committee. HD FS Certificates The department offers four Graduate Certificates available to HD FS majors as well as students in other departments and professionals in the field. The certificates emphasize application and relevance to growing diversity and demands on the work force. The four certificate areas are: Developmental and Family Sciences Advanced Research Design and Methods (15 credits) Family Well-Being in Diverse Society (12 credits) Infant and Early Childhood Mental Health (12 credits, online) Life-Span Development (12 credits, online) For more information about courses for the certificates, go to https://hdfs.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-students/graduate-programs/graduate-certificates/ Youth Development Certificates The department also collaborates to offer two certificates related to youth development through the MFCS program. Both certificates are designed to prepare individuals who work directly with youth or are involved in education and research related to youth. For more information, go to http://www.online.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-programs/masters/mfcs-youth-development/. Youth Development Specialist Certificate (13 credits) Youth Program Management and Evaluation Certificate (13 credits) Family Financial Planning Certificates The MFCS – Family Financial Planning (FFP) program also offers two certificates listed below. More information can be found at http://www.online.hs.iastate.edu/graduate-programs/masters/mfcs-ffp/. FFP certificate. Master of Family and Consumer Sciences with Family Financial Planning (FFP) specialization graduate certificate program (18 credits) FHC certificate. Master of Family and Consumer Sciences Financial and Housing Counseling (FHC) specialization graduate certificate program (18 credits) Expand all courses Courses Courses primarily for undergraduates: HD FS 102: Individual and Family Development, Health, and Well-being (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.SS. Overview of life-span developmental tasks (physical, cognitive, language, social, emotional) examined from various theoretical perspectives. Discussion of topics related to family diversity, individual/family health and well-being and reciprocal relationships as affected by external factors. HD FS 110: Freshman Learning Community Orientation (1-0) Cr. 1. F. Prereq: Membership in HD FS Learning Community Introduction to the Department of Human Development and Family Studies including academic requirements and opportunities, strategies for transitioning to college, learning and study strategies, reading and reflection, and career awareness. HD FS 111: New Transfer Student Seminar (1-0) Cr. 1. F.S. Introduction to HD FS curricula and faculty for students in CH FS, FCEDS or F C P. Department and University policies and procedures, degree audits, and registration. Exploration of campus resources and strategies for student success. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 183: Personal Finance in Early Adulthood (1-0) Cr. 1. F.S.SS. Introduction to basic concepts and budgeting practices for management of resources and prevention of financial problems commonly associated with college, including credit and student loans. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 208: Early Childhood Education Teacher Orientation Cr. 1. F.S. Prereq: classification as ECE major Overview of early childhood education (birth-grade 3) teacher licensure requirements. Program planning and university procedures. Required of all students majoring in early childhood education. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 218: Professional Orientation and Service Learning (2-0) Cr. 2. F.S. Prereq: Credit or concurrent enrollment in HD FS 102. For child, adult and family services majors. Ethics, professional development, and career exploration in child, adult and family services. Visits to and service learning with programs that serve children, adults and families with diverse needs. Participation in service learning project required. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 223: Child Development and Health (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Typical and atypical development of children prenatal through middle childhood. Examination of healthy development and potential impact of health issues in children. Discussion of influence of the family and society on development. Either HD FS 223 or HD FS 224, but not both, may be applied toward graduation. HD FS 224: Development in Young Children: Birth through Age 8 (3-1) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 102 Learning, growth, and development (typical and atypical) of children from birth through age eight. Explores importance of family, programs, and a diverse society. Strategies for observing, recording, and interpreting children's cognitive, communication, motor, social, and emotional development. Practicum. Either HD FS 223 or HD FS 224, but not both, may be applied toward graduation. HD FS 226: Development and Guidance in Middle Childhood (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: HD FS 102 or PSYCH 230 Physical, cognitive, socioemotional, and identity development from 5 to 12 years of age. Development within the contexts of family, school, peers, and society. Guidance of children in family and group settings. HD FS 227: Adolescence and Emerging Adulthood (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 102 or PSYCH 230 Physical, cognitive, and socioemotional development of adolescents and emerging adults in the context of family, relationships, and culture. HD FS 234: Adult Development (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: HD FS 102 or PSYCH 230 Introductory exploration of the health, individual and social factors associated with adult development including younger adulthood, middle age and older adulthood. Information is presented from a life-span developmental framework. HD FS 239: Consumer Issues (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Introduction to factors affecting consumer decisions of individuals and families, including housing, healthcare, and personal finances. Emphasis on accessibility and affordability, community contexts for families; and consumer protection, legislation and regulation, and consumer fraud. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement HD FS 240: Literature for Children (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Evaluation of literature for children, including an emphasis on diversity and inclusion; cultural competence. Roles of literature in the overall development of children. Literature selection and use in the home and educational settings. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement HD FS 249: Parenting and Family Diversity Issues (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Evidence-based, best-practice approaches to child-rearing, guidance, adult-child relationships, and parenting education programs. Theoretical perspectives related to caregiving processes across the lifespan. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement HD FS 270: Family Communications and Relationships (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.Alt. SS., offered odd-numbered years. Family communication and its functions to develop, maintain, enrich and limit family relationships. Family theories related to communication and ethical considerations when working with families. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement HD FS 276: Human Sexuality (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.SS. Behavioral, biological, and psychological aspects of human sexuality within the social context of family, culture, and society. Role of sexuality in human development. Critical analysis of media and research. Communication and decision-making skills relating to sexuality issues and relationships. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement HD FS 283: Personal and Family Finance (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Introduction to basic principles of personal and family finance. Budgeting, record keeping, checking and savings accounts, consumer credit, insurance, investments, and taxes. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement HD FS 317: Field Experiences Cr. 1-6. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: Permission of instructor. Consult department office for procedure. Supervised field experience in human development and family studies programs. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 317B: Field Experiences: Human Development and Family Studies Cr. 1-6. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: 9 credits in HD FS. Consult department office for procedure. Supervised field experience in human development and family studies programs. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 317G: Field Experiences: Family Finance Programs Cr. 1-6. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Consult department office for procedure. Supervised field experience in human development and family studies programs. HD FS 317H: Field Experiences: Honors Cr. 1-6. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: 9 credits in HD FS Consult department office for procedure. Supervised field experience in human development and family studies programs. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 340: Assessment and Curriculum: Ages Birth through 2 Years (3-3) Cr. 4. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 224; admission to Educator Preparation program Assessment strategies for infants and toddlers, including those with special needs. Curricula, learning environments, teaching strategies, health and nutritional practices, and schedules that are developmentally, individually, and culturally appropriate. Using assessment to plan, implement, and evaluate activities to promote physical, motor, cognitive, communication, and social emotional development. Practicum. HD FS 341: Household Finance and Policy (3-0) Cr. 3. F. The social, economic, and governmental contexts of financial decision-making at the household level. HD FS 342: Guidance and Group Management in Early Childhood (2-2) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 224 Guiding prosocial development, self-regulation, and task engagement of children birth to age 8. Focus is on promoting prosocial behaviors through supportive relationships and environments within diverse home, center, or school settings. Functional behavior assessment and ongoing progress monitoring for targeted and intensive interventions. Practicum. HD FS 343: Assessment and Curriculum: Ages 3 through 6 Years (3-3) Cr. 4. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 224; HD FS 240; admission to Educator Preparation program Assessment strategies for preschool and kindergarten children, including those with special needs. Learning environments, schedules, activities, nutritional practices, and teaching strategies that are developmentally, individually, and culturally appropriate. Using assessment to plan, implement, and evaluate activities to promote physical motor, cognitive, communication, and social emotional development. Practicum. HD FS 344: Programming for Children in Early Care and Education (3-3) Cr. 4. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 224 Programming in inclusive child care centers and family child care homes, including those with special needs, aged birth through 8 years. Developing, implementing, and evaluating learning environments; activities and materials; behavioral guidance and classroom management practices; health and nutritional practices; and schedules to ensure developmental, individual, and cultural appropriateness. Monitoring children's development and behavior to promote physical, motor, cognitive, communication, and social emotional development. Learning to collaborate effectively with parents and staff. Practicum. HD FS 345: Adapting Programming in Inclusive Settings (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 224 and SP ED 250; or permission of instructor Adapting instruction, materials, and equipment to meet developmental needs of young children birth through age 8 with diverse learning needs and multiple disabilities in inclusive settings. Addressing individualized education programs; special health care needs, challenging behavior, and positioning and handling techniques. HD FS 360: Housing and Services for Families and Children (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: 6 credits in social sciences Approaches to and assessment of housing and services that assist those with special needs including those with disabilities, low-income, children at risk, single-parents, and the homeless. Emphasis on community settings; e.g., residential facilities, group housing, shelters and transitional housing. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement HD FS 367: Abuse and Illness in Families (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.Alt. SS., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: 3 credits in social sciences Causes and consequences of family stressors including physical, sexual, and emotional abuse; substance abuse; and mental and physical illness across the life span. Interplay between victims, offenders, and the treatment system. HD FS 369: Research Methods in Human Development and Family Studies (3-1) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 102 or PSYCH 230, 9 hours in HD FS; junior or senior classification. Understanding and evaluating research. Use of primary and secondary data to identify and study problems related to human development and family issues. An introduction to statistical concepts and data analysis. Computer laboratory experience. HD FS 373: Death as a Part of Living (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.Alt. SS., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 102 Consideration of death in the life span of the individual and the family with opportunity for exploration of personal and societal attitudes. HD FS 377: Aging and the Family (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. F.Alt. SS., offered odd-numbered years. Interchanges of older adults and their families. Emphasis on role changes, social interaction, and independence as influenced by health, finances, life styles, and community support. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement HD FS 378: Retirement Planning and Employee Benefits (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: 3 credits in Economics or Personal Finance Financial needs analysis for retirement, characteristics of employer-sponsored and individual retirement plans, tax implications of retirement plans, Social Security funding and benefits, strategies for meeting varying retirement needs in a diverse society, financial counseling and planning practice, and overview of employee benefits. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement HD FS 383: Fundamentals of Financial Planning (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: HD FS 283 Fundamental principles of the financial planning process, client/planner interactions, time value of money applications as well as analyses of ethics review, financial statements, cash flow and debt management, education planning, retirement planning, tax planning, and estate planning needs of families. HD FS 384: Family Insurance Planning Cr. 3. S. Prereq: HD FS 283 Strategies for managing family financial risk with insurance. Emphasis on communication and planning process and the use of risk mitigation and insurance within families. Risk analysis and management within the comprehensive family financial planning process. HD FS 387: Applying Evidence-Based Practices in Human Services (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 224, 226, 227, 234, or PSYCH 230 Practicing skills required to work with individuals and families in assessment, engagement, and intervention. Applying strategies including motivational interviewing and trauma informed care. HD FS 395: Children, Families, and Public Policy (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.Alt. SS., offered odd-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 369 or equivalent Public policy and public service programs as they affect children and families. Examination of how individuals and groups influence policy. Investigation of current issues and programs influencing the well-being and welfare of children and families. HD FS 416: Human Development and Family Studies Seminar Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: 8 credits in human development and family studies Intensive study of a selected topic in human development and family studies. HD FS 417: Supervised Student Teaching Cr. 8. Repeatable. Prereq: Reservation required HD FS 417C: Supervised Student Teaching: Early Childhood Special Education Programs. Cr. 8. Repeatable. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 455, HD FS 456, GPA 2.5 or above, and admission to Educator Preparation program. Teaching experience with preschool children with disabilities. HD FS 418: Professional Practice Reflection/Discussion Cr. 0.5-2. Repeatable. F.S. Discussion of professional practice experience. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 418A: Professional Practice Reflection/Discussion: Teaching (0.5-0) Cr. 0.5. F.S. Prereq: Taken concurrently with HD FS 417 Discussion of HD FS 417 student teaching field experience. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 418B: Professional Practice Reflection/Discussion: Internships (2-0) Cr. 2. F.S. Prereq: Junior or senior classification Process and development of skills necessary for professional preparation and practice including career planning, resume writing, and interviewing. Strategies for successful career management. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 449: Program Evaluation and Proposal Writing (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: Junior or senior classification Theory and practice of program evaluation and proposal writing in human services including needs assessment, outcome development and measurement, and proposal components. Assessment of programs' success in meeting goals. HD FS 455: Curriculum and Interventions: Ages 3 through 6 Years (3-3) Cr. 4. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 343, HD FS 345, SP ED 405 and SP ED 458 Program models and methods leading to development and organization of appropriate curricula in preschool and kindergarten programs for young children with diverse learning needs. Government regulations and professional standards for child programming. Teaming with parents, colleagues, and paraprofessionals to plan, implement, and evaluate developmentally and culturally appropriate individualized education plans in inclusive settings. Practicum. HD FS 456: Working with Families in Early Intervention (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 340 or HD FS 344, or permission of instructor Applying family systems theory and family centered principles in early intervention. Understanding the impact of disability on families and young children. Utilizing strategies for delivering family-centered interventions and service coordination in home-based and natural environments. Building trusting relationships, teaming with families and interdisciplinary colleagues to create, implement, and evaluate Individualized Family Service Plans (IFSPs) for children birth to age three. Understanding foundations of theory and policy and empowering families through effective supports and services. Experiences with families. HD FS 479: Family Interaction Dynamics (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 102 or equivalent, HD FS 369 or equivalent, 9 hours in social sciences; and junior or senior classification Exploration of social and cultural contexts influence on family dynamics and interactions. Discussion and evaluation of how economic, social and political forces impact families from marginalized groups in the U.S. and from various regions around the world. Outcomes for families examined through the frames of race, class and gender inequality. Students will examine their own social and cultural contexts. Training and instruction on applying academic knowledge to policy and program intervention settings. HD FS 482: Family Savings and Investments (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: HD FS 383, ECON 101 or equivalent, and STAT 101 or equivalent Management of family financial resources; emphasis on savings and the investment planning process; issues facing financial planners who manage family assets. Identification of investment options including common stocks, fixed income securities, convertible securities, and related choices. HD FS 484: Estate Planning for Families (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: HD FS 283 Study of estate planning focusing on efficient conservation and transfer of wealth, consistent with client’s goals. Legal, tax, financial and non-financial aspects of estate planning process; trusts, wills, probate, advanced directives, charitable giving, wealth transfers and related taxes. HD FS 485: Capstone: Family Financial Planning (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: HD FS 341, HD FS 378, HD FS 383, HD FS 482, and HD FS 384 or FIN 361 Development and refinement of competencies required by personal financial planners to work with individuals and families in meeting financial objectives. Utilization of skills obtained in financial planning emphasis to complete one or more financial planning narratives. HD FS 486: Administration of Human Services Programs (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S. Prereq: HD FS 369, junior or senior classification, and 3 credits in HD FS at 300 level or above Examination of purpose, policies, staffing, operations, and clientele of organizations serving children, adults and families with diverse needs. Management/leadership principles and techniques. Introduction to financial management. Administrators/supervisors roles in employee management as well as development of client-oriented programs, fundraising, goal setting, strategic planning, and advocacy. HD FS 489: Financial Counseling (Dual-listed with HD FS 589). (2-0) Cr. 2. F. Prereq: HD FS 283 for 489, graduate classification for 589 Personal, social/psychological and legal climates affecting family financial decisions. A life cycle approach to financial decision making. Development of financial counseling and planning skills to assist families and individuals to become self-sufficient in family financial management. HD FS 489L: Financial Counseling Laboratory (Dual-listed with HD FS 589L). (0-2) Cr. 1. Repeatable, maximum of 2 credits. F. Prereq: HD FS 283 for 489L, graduate classification for 589L Hands-on financial counseling experience using preventative, remedial, and productive strategies in one-on-one and/or group situations. Students work with clients to develop diverse and inclusive decision-making and problem-solving methods to achieve goals or to remove barriers. HD FS 490: Independent Study Cr. arr. Repeatable. Prereq: 6 credits in human development and family studies Consult department office for procedure. HD FS 490H: Independent Study: Honors Cr. arr. Repeatable. Prereq: 6 credits in human development and family studies Consult department office for procedure. HD FS 490I: Independent Study: Human Development and Family Studies Cr. arr. Repeatable. Prereq: 6 credits in HD FS Consult department office for procedure. HD FS 491: Internship Cr. 4-9. Repeatable, maximum of 9 credits. F.S.SS. Prereq: HD FS 418B, permission of instructor, senior classification, and minimum 2.0 GPA. Supervised work experience related to the student's curriculum. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 493: Workshop (Dual-listed with HD FS 593). Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: Senior classification Workshop in HD FS. HD FS 499: Research Cr. arr. Repeatable, maximum of 6 credits. F.S.SS. Prereq: Consult department office for procedures. Supervised research experience. Courses primarily for graduate students, open to qualified undergraduates: HD FS 501: Graduate Studies, Research, and Ethics in HD FS (2-0) Cr. 2. F. Prereq: Admission to HD FS Graduate program Overview of graduate study, research, ethics, and professional development in the field of human development and family studies. Curriculum, programs of study, portfolios, faculty research interests, dissemination of research, career planning, and teaching discussed. HD FS 502: Professional Development in Human Development and Family Studies (2-0) Cr. 2. Alt. S., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: graduate classification; HD FS 501 Overview of professional skills, portfolio building, preparation for academic and nonacademic jobs, leadership fundamentals and project management training, time management, work balance issues, and professional ethics. Opportunities for graduate students to work on their professional development tailored to individual needs of students. Develop an individual professional portfolio. HD FS 503: Introduction to Research Design (4-0) Cr. 4. F. Prereq: Permission of instructor Basic research skills including developing research questions, posing testable hypotheses, determining appropriate data collection and analyses, and identifying the benefits and limitations of various sampling strategies. Measurement theory, observational assessments, survey research, experimental and quasi-experimental designs, analysis of secondary data, and qualitative research methods. HD FS 504: Qualitative Research Methods (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: 9 credits of social sciences or permission of instructor Introduction to qualitative research methodology. Application of fieldwork methods, analysis, interpretation, and writing through individual qualitative research projects. HD FS 505: Application of Quantitative Research Methods (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: HD FS 503 or permission of instructor Descriptive and inferential statistics, hypothesis testing, scales of measurement, comparisons of proportions, correlations between variables, the t distribution, analysis of variance, and multiple regression. HD FS 510: Theories of Human Development (3-0) Cr. 3. F.SS. Prereq: 9 credits of social sciences or permission of instructor Theoretical approaches and current research in child, adolescent, and adult development. Individual life span perspectives. Implications for research, policy and practice. (Summer course offering is on-line). HD FS 511: Family Theory (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: 9 credits in social sciences or permission of instructor Theoretical approaches and current research in family development. Review the nature and value of theory to the study of the family and evaluate the use of theory in empirical research. Implications for research, policy and practice. HD FS 530: Perspectives in Gerontology (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Overview of current aging issues including theory and research, critical social and political issues in aging, the interdisciplinary focus of gerontology, career opportunities, and aging in the future. HD FS 534: Adult Development (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Exploration of the biological, psychological and social factors associated with aging. Although the focus is on the later years, information is presented from a life-span developmental framework. Empirical studies are reviewed and their strengths, limitations and implications for normative and optimal functioning are discussed. HD FS 538: Developmental Disabilities (Cross-listed with PSYCH). (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. F., offered odd-numbered years. Prereq: 9 credits in human development and family studies or psychology or permission of instructor Theories, research, and current issues regarding the intersection of development and disabilities. Investigation of interventions with individuals and families. (on-line course offering via Distance Education). HD FS 541: Housing and Real Estate in Family Financial Planning (Cross-listed with FFP). (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. SS., offered even-numbered years. The role of housing and real estate in the family financial planning process, including taxation, mortgages, financial calculations, legal concerns, and ethical issues related to home ownership and real estate investments. Emphasis on emerging issues in the context of housing and real estate. HD FS 545: Economics, Public Policy, and Aging (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Policy development in the context of the economic status of the older adult population. Retirement planning and the retirement decisions; social security and public transfer programs; intra-family transfers to/from the aged; private pensions; financing medical care; prospects and issues for the future. HD FS 555: Current Issues and Research in Early Childhood Services (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. F., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: 9 credits in social sciences or permission of instructor Analysis of contemporary and historical early childhood/early intervention/early childhood special education model programs and services. Examination of relationships among service systems and implementation, program quality, teacher effectiveness, and outcomes for children with and without disabilities. (on-line course offering via Distance Education). HD FS 563: Environments for the Aging (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: HD FS 360 or 3 credits in housing, architecture, interior design, rehabilitation, psychology, or human development and family studies or permission of instructor Emphasis on independent living within residential settings including specialized shelter, supportive services and housing management. Application of criteria appropriate for accessibility and functional performance of activities; universal design principles. Creative project provides service learning opportunities. Meets U.S. Diversity Requirement HD FS 566: Family Policy (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. F., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: 6 credits in social sciences or permission of instructor An introduction to policy for family researchers and practitioners. Examination of relevant policies through a family lens via discussion of theory and student interests in current and enduring family policies and programs. Descriptions of work roles in family policy and the interaction of family researchers and policymakers. HD FS 567: Family Stress, Abuse, and Illness (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. F., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: 9 credits in social sciences or permission of instructor Explores research related to family stress within romantic, parent-child, and sibling relationships. Examines contemporary theory and research on the nature, causes, and consequences of family stressors. These stressors include, but are not limited to economic distress; physical and emotional abuse; substance abuse; and mental and physical illness across the life span. (on-line course offering via Distance Education). HD FS 568: Individual and Family Assessment (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 510 or permission of instructor Use of interviews, observational assessments, direct tests with individuals and families for research and intervention. Opportunities to practice assessments. HD FS 575: Cross-cultural Perspectives about Families and Children (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: 6 credits in social sciences or permission of instructor Review of current research regarding family diversity including an examination of cultural and structural influences on the development and well-being of families and children. Discussion of the impact on human rights and social justice. (on-line course offering via Distance Education). HD FS 577: Aging in the Family Setting (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Prereq: 9 credits in social sciences or permission of instructor Theories and research related to personal and family adjustments in later life affecting older persons and their intergenerational relationships. Related issues including demographics also are examined through the use of current literature. HD FS 579: Family Well-being Across the Lifespan (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered odd-numbered years. Prereq: 9 credits in social sciences or permission of instructor Review of current research to provide a theoretical and practical understanding of the economic, social, and psychological factors that influence interpersonal relationships and individual well-being within the institution of the family system. Economic and policy effects considered.(on-line course offering via Distance Education). HD FS 581: International Study in Human Development and Family Studies Cr. 1-12. Repeatable, maximum of 12 credits. F.S.SS. Prereq: Permission by application Limited enrollment. Supervised international study experiences in Human Development and Family Studies. Countries vary. HD FS 581A: International Study in HD FS: Practicum Cr. 1-12. Repeatable, maximum of 12 credits. F.S.SS. Prereq: Permission by application Limited enrollment. Supervised international study experiences in Human Development and Family Studies. Countries vary. HD FS 581B: International Study in HD FS: Exchange Cr. 1-12. Repeatable, maximum of 12 credits. F.S.SS. Prereq: Permission by application Limited enrollment. Supervised international study experiences in Human Development and Family Studies. Countries vary. HD FS 581C: International Study in HD FS: Group Study Cr. 1-12. Repeatable, maximum of 12 credits. F.S.SS. Prereq: Permission by application Limited enrollment. Supervised international study experiences in Human Development and Family Studies. Countries vary. HD FS 583: Investing for the Family's Future (Cross-listed with FFP). (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Evaluation of investment markets for the household. Analysis of how families choose where to put their savings. Emphasis is on using the family's overall financial and economic goals to help inform investment choices. HD FS 584: Program Evaluation and Research Methods in Gerontology (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. S. Overview of program evaluation, research methods, and grant writing in gerontology. Includes application of quantitative and qualitative methods in professional settings. HD FS 585: Program Evaluation (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered odd-numbered years. Prereq: 6 credits in graduate level social sciences or permission of instructor Theoretical and practical issues related to design and implementation of program evaluation in social sciences. Includes theory, design, implementation, analysis and proposal writing to assist programs to be successful in meeting program goals. HD FS 588: Family, Income, and the Economy (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. F., offered odd-numbered years. Prereq: 9 credits in social sciences or permission of instructor Analysis of family income, wealth, and economic well-being. Emphasis on effects of family behavior and public policies on the adequacy and security of income across the family life cycle. Implications of resource allocation within the family for adult and child well-being. HD FS 589: Financial Counseling (Dual-listed with HD FS 489). (2-0) Cr. 2. F. Prereq: HD FS 283 for 489, graduate classification for 589 Personal, social/psychological and legal climates affecting family financial decisions. A life cycle approach to financial decision making. Development of financial counseling and planning skills to assist families and individuals to become self-sufficient in family financial management. HD FS 589L: Financial Counseling Laboratory (Dual-listed with HD FS 489L). (0-2) Cr. 1. Repeatable, maximum of 2 credits. F. Prereq: HD FS 283 for 489L, graduate classification for 589L Hands-on financial counseling experience using preventative, remedial, and productive strategies in one-on-one and/or group situations. Students work with clients to develop diverse and inclusive decision-making and problem-solving methods to achieve goals or to remove barriers. HD FS 590: Special Topics Cr. arr. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor Consult department office on procedure for filing a written plan of study. HD FS 590I: Special Topics: Human Development and Family Studies Cr. arr. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor Consult department office on procedure for filing a written plan of study. HD FS 590R: Special Topics Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: Permission of instructor Consult department office on procedure for filing a written plan of study. HD FS 591: Internship Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: 10 graduate credits Supervised experience in an area of human development and family studies. HD FS 591I: Internship: Human Development and Family Studies Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: 10 graduate credits Supervised experience in an area of human development and family studies. HD FS 593: Workshop (Dual-listed with HD FS 493). Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: Senior classification Workshop in HD FS. HD FS 594: Professional Seminar in Gerontology (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. SS. An integrative experience for gerontology students designed to be taken near the end of the degree program. By applying knowledge gained in earlier coursework, students will strengthen skills in ethical decision-making behavior, applying these skills in gerontology-related areas such as advocacy, professionalism, family and workplace issues. Students from a variety of professions will bring their unique perspectives to bear on topics of common interest. HD FS 599: Creative Component Cr. arr. F.S.SS. Prereq: 9 graduate credits in HD FS Nonthesis creative component (e.g., a special report, capstone course, integrated field experience, annotated bibliography, research project, design, or other creative endeavor). Courses for graduate students: HD FS 603: Advanced Quantitative Methods (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: HD FS 503, HD FS 505; STAT 402 or STAT 404 or permission of instructor Methodological and analytical issues in research in human development and family studies. Advanced research design and measurement, selection of statistical techniques, and issues in the interpretation of findings. HD FS 604: Advanced Qualitative Methods (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 504 or permission of instructor Research methodologies including phenomenology, grounded theory, ethnography, and case studies. Methods of data collection and analysis procedures. Issues of ethics and interpretation of findings. (on-line course offering via Distance Education). HD FS 605: Multi-level Modeling (Cross-listed with PSYCH). (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered odd-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 503 and HD FS 505 or STAT 404 or permission of instructor Rationale for and interpretation of random coefficient models. Strategies for the analysis of multi-level and panel data including models for random intercepts, random slopes, and growth curves. HD FS 606: Advanced Structural Equation and Longitudinal Modeling (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 603 or STAT 404 or permission of instructor Rationale for and interpretation of advanced structural equation modeling for the analysis of longitudinal data. Emphasis will be placed on developing a working familiarity with some of the common statistical procedures, coupled with their application through the use of statistical software. HD FS 607: Mixed Methods (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered odd-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 503, HD FS 504,HD FS 505, or permission of instructor Foundations of mixed methods research, controversies, and philosophical concerns. Rationale for and interpretation of mixed methods designs. Research design, sampling, data collection, data analysis, results, and interpretation. (on-line course offering via Distance Education). HD FS 608: Grant Writing for Research (3-0) Cr. 3. F. Prereq: HD FS 503, HD FS 505, and HD FS 504 or permission of instructor Understand how to identify funding sources as well as the fundamental components of a federal research grant proposal such as the abstract or summary, background and significance, specific aims/goals and objectives, project design and methods, sustainability, assessment, broader impacts, dissemination, budget, budget justification, and cover letter. HD FS 616: Seminar Cr. arr. May be repeated. F.S.SS. HD FS 631: Child Health and Development (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. F., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 510 or permission of instructor Young children’s cognitive, physical, communication, and social-emotional health and development will be examined. Both typical and atypical trajectories will be explored. Research on current trends in the field will be emphasized.(on-line course offering via Distance Education). HD FS 632: Behavioral Interventions in Early Childhood (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered odd-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 510 or permission of instructor Issues related to behavioral development and needs of children ages 3-8. Design and implementation of group and individual behavioral interventions. Discussion of coaching strategies to improve intervention implementation. (on-line course offering via Distance Education). HD FS 633: Infant Mental Health (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 510 or permission of instructor Examination of the individual, interpersonal, and familial factors that influence infant (birth through age 3) mental health. Analysis of the risk and protective factors that influence these systems and their potential effects on social-emotional development. Current issues relating to effective programs for improving parent-infant interactions and additional supports available to families.(on-line course offering via Distance Education). HD FS 634: Adolescent and Emerging Adult Health and Development (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 510 or permission of instructor Theory and research on biopsychosocial, cognitive, physical and sexual health and development from early adolescence to emerging adulthood. Contexts of development including families, peers, schools, neighborhoods, romantic relationships, economics and public policies are considered.(on-line course offering via Distance Education). HD FS 635: Adult Development, Aging, and Health (Cross-listed with GERON). (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. F., offered odd-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 510 or permission of instructor Review of the impact of the growing older adult population as well as individual development and aging on individuals, families, and society. Exploration of theoretical perspectives applied to adult development and aging and distinction of normative and non-normative changes in adulthood. Discussion of methods to assess development across adulthood and consideration of the role of individual and environmental factors impacting efforts to optimize adult development. HD FS 640: Biomarkers and Family Research (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered odd-numbered years. Prereq: HD FS 510 or permission of instructor. Research on the biological underpinnings of human development and the biobehavioral health of the family. Exposure to interdisciplinary research and practice on biomarkers in the family, with particular emphasis on health-and well being-related measures. Application of biomarker collection, measurement, analysis and dissemination. HD FS 690: Advanced Topics Cr. arr. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor and enrollment in Ph.D. program HD FS 690I: Advanced Topics: Human Development and Family Studies Cr. arr. Repeatable. Prereq: Permission of instructor and enrollment in Ph.D. program HD FS 691: Internship Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: Permission of instructor Supervised practice and experience in the following specified areas. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 691A: Internship: College Teaching Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: Permission of instructor Supervised practice and experience in college-level teaching. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 691B: Internship: Research Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: Permission of instructor Supervised practice and experience in conducting research. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 691D: Internship: Professional Experience Cr. arr. Repeatable. F.S.SS. Prereq: Permission of instructor Supervised practice and experience in relevant professional experiences. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 699: Research Cr. arr. Repeatable. Thesis and dissertation research. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. HD FS 699I: Research: Human Development and Family Studies Cr. arr. Repeatable. Thesis and dissertation research. Offered on a satisfactory-fail basis only. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.