Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Counseling, Animo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (63 UNITS) The Ánimo Emphasis focuses on clinical issues related to Latinx and Spanish-speaking clients, including acculturation theory and process, immigration background/history, cultural value systems, intergenerational family conflict, ethnic identity models, similarities and differences among Latinx sub-groups, and the intersection of various other diversity dimensions (gender, religion, sexual orientation, disability, social class, etc.). The curriculum is grounded in Council for Accreditation for Counseling and Related-Educational Programs (CACREP) standards and American Counseling Association nationally-approved professional competencies. Admission Requirements The Department of Counseling welcomes applicants from diverse academic, social and cultural backgrounds. Preparation for the counseling profession is rigorous and multifaceted, necessitating the student’s development in interpersonal, self-reflective and academic realms. Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, admission to the program is based upon indicators of the applicant’s potential for becoming an effective counseling practitioner including, but not limited to grade point average (GPA), letters of reference, personal statement and departmental interview. A minimum GPA of 3.0 for the four undergraduate prerequisite behavioral science courses (or equivalent) is required. The prerequisites are as follows: (1) Counseling Theories (a course that surveys the major theoretical frameworks in counseling and psychotherapy); (2) Abnormal Psychology or Psychopathology; (3) Human Development or Developmental Psychology; and (4) Research Methods or Statistics. At least two of the four prerequisite courses must be completed prior to the time of entrance into the program. Admission is not based on any single factor, but on a composite assessment of all factors and is at the sole discretion of the Counseling Department’s Admissions Committee. For further information, including deadlines and the admissions process, please visit our website: hhd.fullerton.edu/counsel. Classification and Advancement to Practicum All students begin the program as conditionally classified students. During the first semester of graduate coursework, students meet with the New Student Adviser to write their study plans. After the study plan has been approved by the Office of Graduate Studies, students are considered classified. Each student undergoes a comprehensive evaluation in the semester prior to his or her first Practicum (COUN 530A ). This evaluation determines advancement to practicum. Advancement to practicum requires: 3.0 GPA for graduate courses; “B” (3.0) or better in COUN 526 ; and successfully passing the faculty’s ongoing assessment of the student’s aptitude and suitability for the counseling profession, progress in skill development, interpersonal and cultural sensitivity, readiness to see clients and ethical and professional conduct. A student may be: (a) advanced to practicum; (b) required to postpone practicum and complete remedial steps required by the faculty; or (c) disqualified from the program. Students in practicum (COUN 530A , COUN 590 , COUN 584A or COUN 591 ) and who are seeing clients at their agency site are designated as Trainees by the BBS. Probation and Disqualification Students may be placed on academic or administrative-academic probation. Students may also be disqualified for a variety of reasons. See the “Graduate Regulations” section of the catalog for university policies and the Student Handbook for departmental policies on our website: http://hhd.fullerton.edu/counsel. Required Courses COUN 500 - The Counseling Profession (3) COUN 502 - Career and Lifestyle Development (3) COUN 511B - Pre-Practicum for Animo Emphasis (3) COUN 518 - Human Development and Functioning (3) COUN 520 - Modes of Individual Counseling (3) COUN 521 - Research in Counseling (3) (first half of final research project) COUN 522B - Diagnosis and Treatment Planning for Ánimo Emphasis (3) COUN 524 - Child and Adolescent Counseling (3) COUN 525 - Psychopharmacology for Counselors (3) COUN 526 - Professional, Ethical and Legal Issues in Counseling (3) COUN 527B - Systems of Family Counseling for Ánimo Emphasis (3) COUN 528 - Groups: Process and Practice (3) COUN 530B - Practicum for Animo Emphasis (3) COUN 535 - Addictions Counseling (3) COUN 538 - Crisis Intervention and Trauma Treatment (3) COUN 560 - Appraisal in Counseling (3) COUN 562 - Counseling Couples (3) COUN 584B - Advanced Practicum for Animo Emphasis (3) COUN 590 - Advanced Counseling Techniques (1-3) COUN 597 - Project (3) (second half of research project) Total (63 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).