Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Cyber Security Minor Select a section... Overview Objectives and Learning Outcomes Requirements Contact Information Doug Jacobson ISU Information Assurance Center iac.iastate.edu/undergraduate-minor-in-cyber-security/ dougj@iastate.edu 515-294-8307 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Engineering > Cyber Security Minor The minor is intended for students studying computer engineering, computer science, software engineering, or management information systems with the goal of enabling them to work in cyber security. The minor consists of a series of lab based courses that are designed to provide students with both the technical background and the hands-on experiences along with the theoretical background to allow them to compete for jobs in cyber security. Objectives The minor in cyber security is designed to prepare students with the technical skills for entry into cybersecurity positions in industry or government agencies. A few years after graduation, students completing the cyber security minor should be: Contributing to their communities and society in the area of cyber security technology and applications and demonstrating an understanding of contemporary security issues, both technological and societal. Advancing in their careers through application of their knowledge of cyber security Working effectively as team members and demonstrating ethics and responsible behavior Applying cyber security methods and concepts to the general area of their BS degree Continuing their professional development through life-long learning Learning Outcomes After earning the minor in cyber security students will Demonstrate the ability to apply knowledge of cyber security concepts, tools and technologies to computer systems. Understand cyber security risks, threats and countermeasures and apply this understanding to develop cyber defense strategies. Demonstrate the ability to design cyber security systems to meet organizational needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, and ethical expectations. Demonstrate the ability to function on teams. The minor requires 15 credits, including at least 6 credits in courses numbered 300 or above taken at Iowa State University. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Below is the list of courses used in the minor. Core CYB E 230 Cyber Security Fundamentals 3 CYB E 231 Cyber Security Concepts and Tools 3 CYB E 331 Application of Cryptographic Concepts to Cyber Security 3 Plus one of the following (3-4 cr.) 3 CPR E 308 Operating Systems: Principles and Practice COM S 252 Linux Operating System Essentials COM S 352 Introduction to Operating Systems One Elective Course 1 3 Total Credits 15 1. From department approved lists. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.