Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Non-destructive Evaluation Minor Select a section... Contact Information Dr. Leonard Bond Professor engineering.iastate.edu/engineering-minors/nondestructive-evaluation-nde/ bondlj@iastate.edu ndeminor@iastate.edu Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Engineering > Non-destructive Evaluation Minor Minor supervised by an interdisciplinary faculty committee, administered by Aerospace Engineering. The NDE minor is a unique opportunity for engineering students to acquire a multidisciplinary engineering qualification in the rapidly evolving field of Nondestructive Evaluation. Undergraduate Study Students interested in completing the NDE engineering minor must be enrolled in the College of Engineering at Iowa State University. They must submit the “Request for Minor” form and complete the minimum prescribed 16 credit-hours of course work defined below. Acceptance is based on approval by the administering department, Aerospace Engineering. A combined average grade of C or higher is required in courses applied to the minor. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. The course requirements for the undergraduate minor in NDE are: MAT E/E M 362 Principles of Nondestructive Testing 3 MAT E/E M 362L Nondestructive Testing Laboratory 1 At least one of the following NDE specific courses 3-4 C E 449 Structural Health Monitoring M S E/E M 550 Nondestructive Evaluation MAT E 488 Eddy Current Nondestructive Evaluation E M 480 Ultrasonic Nondestructive Evaluation AER E 429X Penetrating Radiation Methods in Nondestructive Evaluation Independent Study courses on NDE projects from other engineering disciplines will need to be approved by the NDE Minor Coordinator AER E 490J Aerospace Engineering Independent Study: Non-destructive Evaluation (Research Topic related to NDE for any 490) or E E 490 Independent Study or M E 490 Independent Study or MAT E 490 Independent Study Up to three of the following or additional NDE specific courses from the list above 9-12 AER E 321 Flight Structures Analysis AER E 421 Advanced Flight Structures AER E 423 Composite Flight Structures E E 418 High Speed System Engineering Measurement and Testing E E 224 Signals and Systems I CPR E 418 High Speed System Engineering Measurement and Testing I E 348 Solidification Processes I E 361 Statistical Quality Assurance STAT 231 Probability and Statistical Inference for Engineers STAT 305 Engineering Statistics STAT 322 Probabilistic Methods for Electrical Engineers AER E 422 Vibrations and Aeroelasticity AER E 426 Design of Aerospace Structures E M 424 Intermediate Mechanics of Materials E M 425 Introduction to the Finite Element Method M E 417 Advanced Machine Design M E 418 Mechanical Considerations in Robotics MAT E 418 Mechanical Behavior of Materials MAT E 443 Physical Metallurgy of Ferrous Alloys MAT E 444 Corrosion and Failure Analysis Total Credits 16-20 Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.