Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Spanish, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) The Master of Arts in Spanish is a practical program in that Spanish is the second-most spoken language in the U.S., and the need for bilingual professionals will continue to grow in today’s interactive world. Career opportunities are available for those who plan to teach or work in a number of fields, including international business, travel and diplomacy, as well as for those who want to pursue doctoral studies. The degree also provides an opportunity to those who simply want to expand their knowledge through advanced academic training. The program also offers the Concentration in Chicana/Chicano Studies within the Master of Arts in Spanish. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. Candidates will need a B.A. with a minimum GPA of 3.0 in Spanish, consisting of at least 24 units (or equivalent) of upper-division studies. A candidate presenting a bachelor of arts that has fewer than 24 upper-division units in the language, or whose background is otherwise inadequate, will be required to take additional courses with a minimum GPA of 3.0 to build a full undergraduate major before beginning the graduate program. The student must demonstrate proficiency in English, passing MLNG 301 or equivalent with a “C” (2.0) or better. Satisfactory evaluation of language proficiency by committee is also required. Adaptations of certain admission requirements may be made for promising foreign students. Graduate Standing - Classified A student who meets the requirements for conditionally classified graduate standing is eligible for classified graduate standing upon the development of an approved study plan, which should be done in consultation with the graduate adviser prior to the completion of nine graduate units. Study Plan The study plan requires at least 18 units of 500-level courses, distributed as follows: Required Core Courses (6 units) SPAN 500 - Graduate Seminar: Advanced Structure and Style (3) SPAN 530 - Graduate Seminar: Historical Linguistics (3) Graduate Seminars in Literature (12 units) Peninsular Literature (6 units) SPAN 556 - Graduate Seminar: Spanish Poetry (3) SPAN 571 - Graduate Seminar: Spanish Prose and Narrative Fiction (3) SPAN 575 - Graduate Seminar: Spanish Drama (3) Spanish-American Literature (6 units) SPAN 557 - Graduate Seminar: Spanish-American Poetry (3) SPAN 567 - Graduate Seminar: Spanish-American Novel (3) SPAN 576T - Graduate Seminar: Hispanic Topics (3) Other Electives (12 units) Choose from 400-level (SPAN 430 or higher) or 500-level courses (up to 6 of the 12 units may be taken in a related field with the approval of the adviser) Chicana/Chicano Studies Concentration (12 units) The Chicana/Chicano Studies Concentration is for students seeking to pursue a graduate-level education in the field, and prepares those who intend to pursue careers related to the Chicana and Chicano community. Students will deepen their understanding and analysis of Chicana and Chicano cultural production, literary production and linguistic characteristics. Required Courses (9 units) CHIC 450 - Seminar in Contemporary Chicana/o Issues (3) CHIC 500 - Chicana/Chicano Studies Paradigms and Traditions (3) SPAN 468 - Spanish/English Bilingualism and Language Contact (3) Electives (3 units) SPAN 416 - Contemporary Spanish-American Culture (3) SPAN 440 - Spanish-American Literature to Modernismo (3) SPAN 441 - Spanish-American Literature Since Modernismo (3) SPAN 466 - Spanish Phonology and Dialectology (3) SPAN 467 - Spanish Morphology and Syntax (3) SPAN 485T - Senior Seminar: Topics in Spanish-American Literature (3) Comprehensive Exams All students are required to complete a reading list. Upon completion of all requirements, a final evaluation by comprehensive written examination must be completed successfully to demonstrate mastery of the fields. The examination consists of three separate tests: Linguistics, Peninsular Literature and Spanish American Literature. A student who fails one or more of the tests that comprise the written examination will have the option of retaking the failed test(s) only once within two years of the first attempt. If a student fails one test on the second attempt, but has passed the other two tests, the graduate committee may administer a supplemental oral examination in the deficient area if it deems it appropriate. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).