Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Louisville.edu Search Catalog Go Donate Campuses Academic Catalogs | 2022-2023 Undergraduate About the University of Louisville Admission Campus Maps Academic Support Student Resources Financial Information University-Wide Academic Policies Academic Unit Information Programs of Study Majors Minors Undergraduate Certificates Accelerated Programs Graduate Programs and Professional Study Faculty Undergraduate Courses A-Z Undergraduate Catalog Archive Graduate Professional Home/ Undergraduate Print Options Undergraduate Catalog 2022-2023 This catalog is applicable to students who enroll at the University of Louisville beginning Summer 2022 through Spring 2023. The University catalog is the official source for all degree program and academic requirements as well as institutional policies and procedures. It is the document of authority for all students. The program requirements listed in the catalog supersede any information which may be contained in the bulletin of any school or department. « View previous versions Revised May 2021. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award associate, bachelor, master, specialist, doctoral, and first-professional degrees (DMD, JD, MD). Questions about the accreditation of the University of Louisville may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC's website (sacscoc.org). The University of Louisville reserves the right to change programs of study, academic policies, academic requirements, fees, course information, procedures for the confirmation of degrees, or the announced academic calendar and related deadlines without prior notice. The provisions of this publication do not constitute an express or implied contract between the University of Louisville and any member of the student body, faculty, or general public. The University of Louisville is an equal-opportunity institution and does not discriminate against persons because of race, religion, sex, age, handicap, color, citizenship or national origin. If responses from the unit staff are unsatisfactory, inquiries or complaints about illegal discrimination including sexual harassment or handicap access can be made to Employee Relations and Compliance by calling (502) 852–6538. The Redbook is the official statement of the organizational structure, the rules of governance and procedures, and university-wide policies of the University of Louisville. If there is any conflict between the policies, procedures or other statements contained within this catalog, The Redbook shall govern. A copy of "The Redbook" is available electronically. Additional policies and information covering students can be found in the Student Handbook. Admissions criteria for many of the colleges and schools are reviewed periodically. Students should contact their anticipated unit or the Office of Admissions for information on the requirements in effect at the time of admission. Students should check with their academic advisor concerning the Cardinal Core or General Education Requirements in effect at the time of their admission. © University of Louisville Contact The University of Louisville is committed to and will provide equality of educational and employment opportunity for all persons regardless of race, sex, age, color, national origin, ethnicity, creed, religion, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity and expression, marital status, pregnancy or veteran status. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, the University of Louisville reserves the right to change programs of study, academic policies, academic requirements, fees, course information, procedures for the confirmation of degrees, or the announced academic calendar and related deadlines without prior notice. Copyright © 2022-2023, University of Louisville. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Cancel