Skip to Content Skip to main content Search X Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines ﻿ Search ﻿ Menu Academic Catalog eCourseware umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost’s Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College eCourseware Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Administrative Support President’s Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online ﻿Instagram ﻿Facebook ﻿twitter ﻿Youtube ﻿Linkedn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance…” 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct. University of Memphis May 31, 2022 UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog Select a Catalog Online Catalogs UOFM 2022-2023 UNDERGRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UOFM 2022-2023 GRADUATE CATALOG [Editing in Process] UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog * [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] UofM 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs College and Department Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home About Graduate School About Graduate Catalog APPLY NOW! Courses Degree Programs Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s Programs Academic Regulations Academic Services Admission Regulations Minimum Graduate Degree Requirements Expenses Faculty and Staff Resources Research Resources University Calendar Catalog Archives My Portfolio HELP UofM 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Computer Science, (PhD) Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Return to: Degree Programs PhD Degree Admission Requirements GRE scores are required and are an important factor for admission. All prerequisites must be satisfied. Students with up to two unsatisfied prerequisites may be granted admission; however, students will be required to remove such deficiencies. Three letters of recommendation. An undergraduate degree in an appropriate discipline with a minimum GPA of 2.5 (on a 4.0 scale) or equivalent preparation. A score of at least 550 on the paper-based TOEFL, or 79 on the internet-based TOEFL, or 6 on IELTS (for students whose native language is not English). A statement of purpose. Prerequisites One year (8 credit hours) of calculus and one semester (3 credit hours) of linear algebra (Students without the calculus and/or linear algebra prerequisites will be considered on an individual basis and, if admitted, must correct the deficiencies within the first semester.) Satisfactory completion of the following courses (or their equivalents): COMP 1900 - CS1:Intro Comp Science, COMP 2150 - CS2: OOP and Data Structures, COMP 2700 - Discrete Structures, COMP 3410 - Computer Org/Architecture. (None of these courses may be used to fulfill degree requirements.) Program Requirements Coursework Requirements Graduate Credit Requirement: Students must complete at least 72 credit hours of graduate coursework in total. Core Requirement: Students must complete the following Core Courses: COMP 7012 - Fndtns/Software Engr , COMP 7212 - Operating/Distrib Sys , COMP 7612 - Foundations of Computing , COMP 7712 - Algorithms/Prob Solv . Students must complete the Core Courses within the first 36 hours of credit in the program, unless an extension is approved by the student’s advisor. Students must obtain a grade of B or better in each of the Core Courses. 8000-Level Requirement: At least 12 credit hours must be completed in courses at the 8000 level, other than COMP 8901 . Dissertation Requirement: Students must complete at least 9 credit hours of Dissertation (COMP 9000 ). Coursework Limitations Coursework used to satisfy the degree requirements is also subject to the following restrictions: Dissertation Credit Limit: At most 18 hours of Dissertation (COMP 9000 ) are allowed. Independent Studies Credit Limit: At most 21 credit hours of Independent Studies (COMP 7901 /COMP 8901 ) are allowed. 6000-Level Credit Limit: At most 6 credit hours of 6000-level courses are allowed. Excluded Courses: None of the following courses are allowed:COMP 6001 , COMP 6005 , COMP 6014 , COMP 6030 , COMP 6040 , COMP 6270 , COMP 6601 , COMP 7960 /COMP 8960 Approved Master’s Degree Holders of a master’s degree in computer science may, during the first semester in the program, petition the department to have their degree accepted as an Approved Master’s Degree. For an Approved Master’s Degree, the department designates up to 33 credits as Approved Master’s Degree Credits. The Graduate Credit Requirement for a student with an Approved Master’s Degree is reduced by the number of Approved Master’s Degree Credits. However, for students with an Approved Master’s Degree, coursework used to satisfy the degree requirements is also subject to the following restrictions: (1) only course credits at the 8000 level or above are allowed, and (2) at most 18 credit hours of Independent Studies (COMP 8901 ) are allowed. Transfer Credits Students who are requesting credit transfer from another graduate program must submit an application during the student’s first semester in the program. The application will be evaluated by the student’s advisor and the Graduate Coordinator to determine the number of credits that can be transferred towards completion of the degree requirements. The number of credit hours transferred is limited by the Graduate School. Examinations Qualifying Examination: Satisfactory completion of the Core Requirement is deemed as passing the qualifying examination. Comprehensive Examination: Given and evaluated by a committee composed of departmental and university representatives upon presentation of a dissertation proposal. Dissertation and Final Examination: Given and evaluated by a committee composed of departmental and university representatives upon completion of a dissertation. Dissertations must follow the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide. Return to: Degree Programs Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 University of Memphis. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).