Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Finance Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plan Undergraduate Minor Graduate Programs Graduate Certificate Contact Information Union Pacific Undergraduate Programs Office 1200 Gerdin Business Building ivybusiness.iastate.edu undergrad@iastate.edu 515-294-8300 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Business > Finance Finance is a broad program of study designed to provide a descriptive, behavioral, and analytical background of financial management to enable students to qualify for opportunities in financial services, insurance, brokerage, government, real estate, and financial management of business enterprises. Finance is also an excellent area for those who wish to become more knowledgeable as consumers, particularly in the fields of investments, insurance, and real estate. Areas of study in the field of finance include corporate financial management, investments, portfolio management, insurance, real estate, banking, and risk management. Upper-level courses include a review of contemporary literature in the field, case studies, and financial problem analysis integrating finance courses previously taken. Undergraduate Major in Finance For undergraduate curriculum in business, major in finance. The Department of Finance offers a major in finance. Students will complete the general education requirements (including business foundation courses), supporting courses/major prerequisites, business core requirements for the bachelor of science (B.S.) degree, and 21 additional credits in the major. The instructional objective of the Finance program is to provide a well-rounded professional education in finance. Such an education should provide the student with: a mastery of basic financial concepts and methods of analysis an understanding of financial operations in a global setting and of the role of financial institutions in the economy an ability to effectively communicate and work with others as the finance member of a team an ability to demonstrate leadership capabilities in financial analysis and portfolio management. For more information on the undergraduate major in Finance, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/finance/ Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, undergraduate students majoring in Finance will: Be effective communicators Be effective collaborators Be problem solvers Understand business concepts Recognize ethical and legal responsibilities to organizations Curriculum: In addition to the basic business degree requirements (https://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofbusiness/#curriculuminbusinesstext), finance majors must also complete: Required Courses (6 credits): FIN 310 Corporate Finance * 3 FIN 320 Investments 3 Elective Courses (12 credits): Select four courses from the following (at least two must be 400-level): FIN 330 Financial Markets and Institutions 3 FIN 334X Introduction to Financial Technologies and Cryptocurrencies 3 FIN 361 Personal Risk Management and Insurance 3 FIN 371 Real Estate Principles 3 FIN 415 Business Financing Decisions 3 FIN 424 Financial Futures and Options 3 FIN 425 Security Analysis and Portfolio Management 3 FIN 426X Quantitative Investment Analysis 3 FIN 427 Fixed Income Securities 3 FIN 428 Advanced Fixed Income Analysis and Portfolio Management 3 FIN 431 Small Business Finance Decisions 3 FIN 435 Venture Capital, Private Equity, and Mergers and Acquisitions 3 FIN 445 Bank Management Decisions 3 FIN 450 Analytical Methods in Finance 3 FIN 455 Predictive Analytics in Finance 3 FIN 456 Financial Modeling 3 FIN 462 Corporate Risk Management and Insurance 3 FIN 464 Risk Management Derivatives 3 FIN 472 Real Estate Finance 3 FIN 474 Real Estate Investment 3 FIN 480 International Finance 3 FIN 491 International Study Course in Global Capital Markets 3 FIN 492X Case Studies in Strategic Financial Decision-Making 3 Additional Elective Courses (3 credits): Select one course from the following: ACCT 383 Intermediate Managerial Accounting 3 ACCT 386 Intermediate Financial Accounting I 3 ACCT 387 Intermediate Financial Accounting II 3 or any additional 400+ level Finance course. Total Credits: 21 * STAT 326 Introduction to Business Statistics II is highly recommended to be taken as a prerequisite. NOTE: Finance majors must take STAT 326 Introduction to Business Statistics II as part of the supporting courses. The X designation after a course number indicates this is an experimental course offered by the Department. Although in an experimental phase, these courses are open for registration just the same as permanent courses listed in the course catalog and count as elective choices in the major. Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minors taken outside the Ivy College of Business. Finance, B.S. Sample 4-Year Plan (Your plan may differ) Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits BUSAD 102 or 103 1 ECON 102 3 ECON 101 3 STAT 226 3 COM S 113 3 US Diversity# 3 ENGL 150 3 ACCT 284 3 MATH 150 3 SP CM 212 or 312 3 LIB 160 1 BUSAD 203 1 14 16 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits ACCT 285 3 Core Business Course 3 FIN 301 3 PHIL 230 3 MATH 151 3 STAT 326 3 ENGL 250 3 HUM/SOC SCI 3 Natural Science 3 Global/International Perspective@ 3 15 15 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits ACCT 215 3 FIN 320 3 FIN 310 3 FIN Electives 6 Core Business Courses 6 Core Business Course 3 General Elective 3 HUM/SOC SCI 3 15 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits FIN Electives 6 FIN Elective 3 Core Business Courses 6 MGMT 478* 3 HUM/SOC SCI 3 Global/International Perspective@ 3 ENGL 302 3 General Electives 5 18 14 Total Credits: 122 @ Courses in these requirements may also be used as Global Perspective. # US Diversity courses may be used to satisfy HUM/SOC SCI. * Requires completion of all core courses except MGMT 372 plus senior standing. Students must be admitted to the professional program in business to major in finance. The requirements to enter the professional program are: 1. Completion of at least 30 credits, Foundation Courses, ENGL 150, and all ENGL 101/99 courses if required. 2. A minimum GPA of 2.50 either cumulative or in the Foundation Courses. Early admission is allowed for Honors-eligible students. (See your advisor for specific information) Graduation Requirements: 1. Grade of “C” or higher in at least 30 credits of Core and Major courses. 2. 42 credits of 300+ level courses from a four-year institution. 3. 50% of required Business courses must be earned at ISU. 4. At least 32 credits and the LAST 32 credits must be earned at ISU (exceptions for study abroad and internship may be requested). 5. 122 Credits minimum and a Cumulative GPA of at least 2.00 with no quality point deficiencies. 6. A grade of C or better in ENGL 250 required, and also in one other required ENGL course. 7. All 300-level and higher business credits must be earned at a four-year college. 8. Multiple business majors must have at least 15 distinct credits in each of the major requirements; when applicable, one course can be shared between business majors; see your advisor regarding multiple business degree requirements. Undergraduate Minor in Finance The Department of Finance also offers a finance minor for non-finance majors in the Ivy College of Business. The minor requires 15 credits from an approved list of courses, including at least 6 credits in courses numbered 300 or above taken at Iowa State University with a grade of C or higher. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Students with declared majors have priority over students with declared minors in courses with space constraints. Required Course (3 credits): FIN 301 Principles of Finance 3 Elective Courses (12 credits): Select twelve credit hours from 300 or 400 level Finance courses Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minors taken outside the Ivy College of Business. For more information on the undergraduate minor in Finance, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/zminors-and-certificates/ Graduate Programs Master of Finance (MFIN) The Finance Department offers a Master of Finance (MFIN) degree. The MFIN is a non-thesis, non-creative component curriculum designed to provide students with in-depth coverage of finance topics and a strong quantitative skill set. Students will learn financial analysis and valuation, advanced regression techniques and programming approaches for data analysis, time series analysis and forecasting, optimization techniques, modelling of financial and risk variables, simulation techniques, and tools for effective risk management. The 30 credit program requires 18 core credits. Another 12 credits of electives are required, six of which must be in finance courses. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, master of finance (MFIN) students will: Be critical thinkers in finance Have a broad understanding of financial concepts Have strong problem solving and decision-making skills Have a strong background in ethical development For more information about the MFIN program, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/mfin/ Master of Real Estate Development (MRED) The Finance Department also offers a Master of Real Estate Development (MRED) degree. Jointly created with the College of Design, and with significant input and engagement from industry leaders, the MRED is a 30-credit non-thesis, non-creative component program. The MRED program offers academic training, networking opportunities and collaboration with leading academics and practitioners to solve real world problems. Areas of study include real estate market analysis, finance, investments, leadership and negotiation, fundamentals of the build environment, construction science and urban planning. The curriculum is offered in a convenient format of distance learning and brief campus residencies, making it ideal for the full-time working professional. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, master of real estate development (MRED) students will: Be knowledgeable in various aspects of real estate Be critical thinkers in real estate Be innovators in real estate Be leaders in real estate For more information about the MRED program, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/masters-mred/ Master of Business Administration (MBA) The Department of Finance also participates in the full-time and part-time Master of Business Administration (MBA) program as well as the PhD in Business and Technology program. The MBA is a 48-credit, non-thesis, non-creative component curriculum. Thirty of the 48 credits are core courses and the remaining 18 are graduate electives. Within the MBA program, students may develop an area of specialization in Finance. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, MBA students will: Demonstrate effective communication skills Effectively lead and work in diverse teams Critically solve business problems Integrate ethical and global perspectives in decision making For more information about the MBA program with a specialization in Finance, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/mba-full-time-details/ Ph.D. in Business and Technology The PhD in Business and Technology with a Finance (FIN) specialization is a 56-credit (minimum) curriculum designed to train students to teach at the university level, to do research that is publishable in top academic journals, and to analyze questions that are important to government agencies and the private sector. Successful students develop close working relationships with the ISU finance faculty, both in the classroom and on co-authored research. We strive for our students to publish their first research study before finishing the program, and to obtain jobs at research-oriented universities in the U.S. and abroad. We emphasize rigorous training and hands-on experience. Five semesters of coursework include a firm grounding in economic theory, thorough training in statistics and econometrics, and an immersion in the most important research studies in corporate finance, investments, and financial institutions. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, PhD students will be able to: Understand and advance knowledge Create knowledge through original research Teach effectively in an institution of higher education For more information about the PhD program with a specialization in Finance, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/phd/phdfinance/ Graduate Certificate The graduate certificate in finance provides training in investment valuation and the skills necessary to value an entire company through analysis of expected cash flows based on financial statements, growth characteristics, and risk. The certificate is for graduate students and recent graduates seeking job opportunities as investors or professional money managers, who deal with efficient asset allocation in a portfolio setting, investment performance measurement, and performance evaluation. The certificate is available on campus in Ames. For more information about the graduate certificate in Finance, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/finance-graduate-certificate/ Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.