Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Computing Applications Certificate Select a section... Overview Requirements Contact Information Computer Science Advising Center 1200 Communications Building cca.iastate.edu/ csadvising@iastate.edu Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Computing Applications Certificate The Certificate in Computing Applications is a cross-disciplinary course of study in the Colleges of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Engineering, and Business. It is designed for undergraduates not already enrolled in majors in Computer Science, Software Engineering, or Computer Engineering who wish to enhance their degree and employment possibilities by adding expertise in computing applications. The certificate program focuses on teaching students the essential skills required to develop and use computing applications in their subject domains. This certificate program will help students to be successful in today's workplace, ensuring they have the basic knowledge of programming languages and computer systems needed to enhance their employment opportunities. The certificate program is offered jointly among the three colleges and their respective departments housing the majors of computer science, computer engineering, software engineering, and management information systems. The program consists of 9 credit hours selected from the core and 12 credits hours in electives. Enrollment in the certificate Students should fill the form at https://www.registrar.iastate.edu/sites/default/files/uploads/forms/Curriculum%20Change%20Form%201%2021.pdf and bring it to Computer Science Advising Center, 1200 Communications Building. Requirements 21 required credits. Courses applied to the certificate may not be taken on a pass not-pass basis. At least 9 of the credits taken at Iowa State University must be in courses numbered 300 or above. A minimum of 9 credits used for the certificate may not be used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement for the baccalaureate degree except to satisfy the total credit requirement for graduation and to meet credit requirements in courses numbered 300 or above. A student may not receive both an undergraduate major and a certificate of the same name. For students earning an Iowa State University baccalaureate degree, a certificate is awarded concurrent with or after the Iowa State University baccalaureate degree. A certificate is not awarded until baccalaureate requirements are finished. After receiving a baccalaureate degree from any accredited institution, a student may enroll at Iowa State University to earn a certificate. A cumulative grade point average of at least 2.00 is required in courses taken at ISU for a certificate. A notation of completed certificate will be made on the transcript. Part I - Core 9-10 Credits Students will complete either Sequence 1 or Sequence 2 SEQUENCE 1 9-10 Credits COM S 107 Windows Application Programming 3-4 or COM S 127 Introduction to Computer Programming or COM S 207 Fundamentals of Computer Programming COM S 106 Introduction to Web Programming 3 or COM S 113 Introduction to Spreadsheets and Databases COM S 252 Linux Operating System Essentials 3 or DS 201 Introduction to Data Science SEQUENCE 2 10 Credits COM S 227 Object-oriented Programming 4 COM S 228 Introduction to Data Structures 3 COM S 252 Linux Operating System Essentials 3 or DS 201 Introduction to Data Science Part II - Electives 12 Credits Designated Electives for the Certificate Students will choose one elective course from the following list of courses and are responsible for satisfying the course pre-requisites of the elective selected. CPR E 230 Cyber Security Fundamentals BCBIO 322 Introduction to Bioinformatics and Computational Biology L A 211 Digital Design Methods for Landscape Architecture C R P 251 Fundamentals of Geographic Information Systems STAT 301 Intermediate Statistical Concepts and Methods PSYCH 301 Research Design and Methodology SOC 302 Research Methods for the Social Sciences ECON 207 Applied Economic Optimization Any course at 300 level or above in Computer Science (COM S), Computer Engineering (CPR E), Management Information Systems (MIS), or Software Engineering (S E) The remaining 9 credits of electives are intended to allow students to develop further computing applications expertise especially within their major. These 9 elective credits can be advanced courses in their major, courses on the above electives list, or any other coursework approved by the Computer Science Advisor on the “request for undergraduate certificate.” At least 9 of the 12 elective credits must be in courses numbered 300 or above and taken at Iowa State University. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.