Skip to Content Catalog Home Institution Home Yale University Menu Search Bulletin School of Public Health 2021–2022 Print/Download Options Bulletin Archive Yale University Publications / School of Public Health Catalog Navigation Academic and Grading Calendars The President and Fellows of Yale University The Officers of Yale University School of Public Health Administration and Faculty Mission History of the Yale School of Public Health Master of Public Health Traditional Two-Year M.P.H. Program Advanced Professional M.P.H. Program B.A.-B.S./M.P.H. Select Program Accelerated M.B.A./M.P.H. Program in Health Care Management Executive M.P.H. Program International Dual-Degree Programs Joint-Degree Programs with Other Yale Schools Master of Science in Public Health Doctoral Degree Course Descriptions Tuition, Expenses, and Financial Aid Academic Policies Administrative Policies Yale University Resources and Services YSPH Resources for Students Medical Center Resources and Programs Student Organizations and Committees Appendix I: YSPH Practice Requirement Guidelines Appendix II: Thesis Guidelines The Work of Yale University Campus Map Yale University Policy Statements Publication Data A Message from the Dean On behalf of the faculty, staff, and your student peers, I welcome you warmly to the Yale School of Public Health (YSPH). Our school is one of the first to be established in the United States more than a century ago, and among the first to be accredited. While the science and practice of health promotion and disease prevention have evolved, people in the United States and around the world are still faced with last century’s basic public health challenges, such as access to clean water and health care, safe communities, and emerging infectious diseases, such as the historic and devastating COVID-19 pandemic. Addressing health inequalities grounded in systemic racism, homophobia, marginalization of certain immigrants, and unequal access to prevention, screening, and health care is a priority for the YSPH. Serious, growing, and often neglected challenges include the health consequences of global warming, population pressures, refugee health, mental health, and epidemics of addiction, obesity/diabetes, gun injury and violence, and COVID-19. You have chosen the public health field to make the world a healthier place to live for current and future generations. Your reasons to join Yale vary, but you will all share a world-class education, both in-person and online. Explore the YSPH programs, centers, and institutes in innovative social entrepreneurship, global health, public health modeling, child and environmental health, climate change and health, U.S. health justice, and many others. Challenge our faculty and staff with your ideas and your questions. Strive for excellence in your work and your contributions. Join us in promoting social justice, health equity, diversity, and sustainability. Public health is inherently interdisciplinary. Yale University is a laboratory for innovation in your studies and projects. You often can fulfill requirements with a graduate-level course of interest to you that is nested in another Yale school (e.g., Environment, Law, Management, Medicine, Nursing, and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences). We encourage your exploration of Yale’s academic opportunities and its interdisciplinary centers. Our local and global internships, often nurtured through our alumni, offer an incredible array of opportunities. We want to help you bridge boundaries and support your experience in both physical and virtual classrooms and in the field. The faculty, staff, and administrative leaders are here for you. Sten H. Vermund Dean, Yale School of Public Health Anna M.R. Lauder Professor of Public Health (Epidemiology of Microbial Diseases) Professor of Pediatrics, Yale School of Medicine Yale Accessibility at Yale Privacy policy Copyright ©2021 Yale University All rights reserved Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this page The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download 2021-22 YSPH PDF All pages in YSPH Catalog. Cancel