Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Religious Studies Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plan Undergraduate Minor Graduate Programs Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Religious Studies The Religious Studies major (27 credits) and minor (15 credits) offer Iowa State University students the opportunity to expand their knowledge about diverse religions in the United States and the world. The major and minor allow students to design their own unique program of study by taking courses that spark their interest. Religious Studies teaches students to explore religion objectively, critically, and empathetically. It equips students to apply academic theories and methods to understand how religions shape and are shaped by history, politics, culture, society, and human psychology. As their religious literacy increases, students will develop their own ideas about the nature of religion, life’s big questions, and the wide range of human ideas, practices, and motivations. The major in Religious Studies provides both breadth and depth. The program’s 200-level courses introduce students to the academic study of religion, providing a foundation that students build on throughout their undergraduate career. In 300-level courses, students closely investigate particular traditions, topics, or themes. In the 400-level capstone class, students reflect on the knowledge and skills they have learned in order to produce a research project that contributes to the field of Religious Studies. Throughout their undergraduate career, students have opportunities to connect their program of study to their own professional and personal goals. The Religious Studies program provides students skills relevant to building a career based on their interests and passions. Contrary to popular myths, employers in today’s modern workplace value college graduates with liberal arts degrees. In Religious Studies, these include the “hard skills” of writing, reading, and conducting organized research. Students also gain so-called “soft skills.” These include communication strategies, learning to adapt to new environments, and the capacity to work with and understand people from diverse backgrounds. The flexibility of these skills opens up a wide range of career paths. Religious Studies graduates pursue careers in non-profits, community organizations, and people-focused industries. They apply to graduate and professional schools in areas such as law, education, and ministry. A Religious Studies degree doesn’t just help students get a job. It helps them advance and grow, both professionally and personally, well into their lives. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, students should be able to: Describe religious diversity in the United States and around the world, including diversity within traditions. Identify key beliefs, doctrines, practices, and expressions of multiple religions. Explain how religion has shaped and been shaped by human history, culture, and society, drawing on historical, cultural, and textual analyses. Distinguish between confessional and academic understandings of religion. Assess data produced by and about religious communities in an objective, critical, and empathetic manner. Create and convey original insights using effective reading, research, writing, and conversation skills. Religious Studies - Undergraduate Study Students pursuing a major in religious studies must complete a minimum of 27 credits, including the requirements below. Students may also choose to do a senior thesis under the supervision of a religious studies faculty advisor. This option may earn 3-6 credits toward the completion of the major. One of the following introductory survey courses 3 RELIG 205 World Religions RELIG 210 Religion in America Five of the following 300+ level courses 15 RELIG 322 The New Testament RELIG 328 Native American Religions RELIG 332 Catholicism RELIG 334 Africana Religions RELIG 336 Religion and Gender RELIG 339 Goddess Religions RELIG 340 Magic, Witchcraft, and Religion RELIG 348 Psychology of Religion RELIG 349 Cognitive Science of Religion RELIG 350 Philosophy of Religion RELIG 352 Religions of India RELIG 358 Islam RELIG 359 The Quran RELIG 367 Christianity in the Roman Empire RELIG 368 Religions of Ancient Greece and Rome RELIG 370 Religion and Politics RELIG 380 Catholic Social Thought RELIG 475 Seminar: Issues in the Study of Religion RELIG 490 Independent Study RELIG 490H Independent Study: Honors RELIG 491 Senior Thesis RELIG 494 Special Studies in Religious Research Languages Capstone Course 3 RELIG 485 Theory and Method in Religious Studies Minimum of 6 credits of elective Religious Studies courses 6 Total Credits 27 Students in all ISU majors must complete a three-credit course in U.S. diversity and a three-credit course in international perspectives. Check (http://www.registrar.iastate.edu/courses/div-ip-guide.html) for a list of approved courses. Discuss with your advisor how the two courses that you select can be applied to your graduation plan. According to the university-wide Communication Proficiency Grade Requirement, students must demonstrate their communication proficiency by earning a grade of C or better in ENGL 250. LAS majors require a minimum of 120 credits, including a minimum of 45 credits at the 300/400 level. Students must also complete the LAS College requirements, including the world language requirement. Religious Studies, B.A. Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits ENGL 150 3 Religion Choice 300+ 3 LIB 160 1 World Language/Elective 4 RELIG 205 or 210 3 Humanities Choice 3 World Language/Elective 4 Social Science Choice 3 Humanities Choice 3 Elective 3 Math Choice 3 17 16 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits Religion Choice 300+ 3 Religion Choice 300+ 3 ENGL 250 3 Natural Science Choice1 4 Humanities Choice 3 Social Science Choice 3 Natural Science Choice1 4 Humanities Choice 3 Social Science Choice 3 Elective 3 16 16 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits Religion Choice 300+ 3 Religion Choice 300+ 3 Religion Choice 300+ 3 RELIG 485 (offered odd-numbered years) 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 4 Elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 16 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits Religion Choice 300+ 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 4 Elective 3 13 12 1 Laboratory science recommended. The program offers a minor that may be earned by completing a total of 15 credits in religious studies including either RELIG 205 World Religions or RELIG 210 Religion in America. Nine hours must be in courses at the 300 level or above (no more than 3 hours of seminar and no more than 3 hours of independent study). The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college or university requirement. Religious Studies - Graduate Study Religious studies may be one of the three areas used for the interdisciplinary graduate studies master's degree. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.