Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Louisville.edu Search Catalog Go Donate Campuses Academic Catalogs | 2022-2023 Undergraduate Graduate Professional Dentistry Bulletin Law School Handbook Medical Bulletin Home/ Professional Print Options Professional School Catalogs/Bulletins Professional Degrees The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award associate, bachelor, master, specialist, doctoral, and first-professional degrees (DMD, JD, MD). Academic catalog information for the professional degree programs is maintained by the academic unit that offers the degree. These catalogs/bulletins can be accessed using the links below. For class offerings for a specific term, refer to the Schedule of Classes. Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) offered through the School of Dentistry University of Louisville School of Dentistry (ULSOD) Bulletin Juris Doctor (JD) offered through the Brandeis School of Law University of Louisville Brandeis School of Law Student Handbook (link to Brandeis School of Law website) Doctor of Medicine (MD) offered through the School of Medicine University of Louisville School of Medicine (ULSOM) Bulletin The University of Louisville is committed to and will provide equality of educational and employment opportunity for all persons regardless of race, sex, age, color, national origin, ethnicity, creed, religion, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity and expression, marital status, pregnancy or veteran status. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, the University of Louisville reserves the right to change programs of study, academic policies, academic requirements, fees, course information, procedures for the confirmation of degrees, or the announced academic calendar and related deadlines without prior notice. Copyright © 2022-2023, University of Louisville. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Cancel