Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Cyber-Physical Systems Minor Select a section... Overview Requirements Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Engineering > Cyber-Physical Systems Minor Cyber-Physical Systems Minor With the fourth industrial revolution upon us, physical systems are being designed to have a cyber component, that enables remote access, monitoring and control. In these systems, ubiquitous sensing, and advanced data management capability are taking us from automation to autonomy via a deep interconnection between the cyber and physical entities. Cyber-physical systems (CPS) are becoming abundant in many application sectors including manufacturing, energy, health care, transportation and agriculture. Safety-, time- and life-critical systems are relying on CPS concepts to become more efficient, robust, resilient, flexible and scalable. As CPS applications become more pervasive, the engineering education system needs to produce a next generation CPS workforce who can design, produce, and maintain these systems. With this motivation and encouraged by the demand from the industry stakeholders of ISU College of Engineering, this CPS minor will focus on sensing, advanced information processing (data analytics and machine learning), and controls aspects of Cyber-Physical Systems. Specific CPS application sectors such as energy/power systems, manufacturing, biomedical devices, autonomous systems, transportation, and agriculture will be in focus. Cyber-Physical Systems minor is only open to College of Engineering majors. The minor requires 15 credits, including at least 6 credits in courses numbered 300 or above taken at Iowa State University. The minor must include 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. Required courses: M E 280X Design and Analysis of Cyber-Physical Systems 3 CPR E 287X Cyber-Physical Systems 3 AER E 364X Cyber-Physical Systems Application 3 Elective courses: 6 M E 370 Engineering Measurements M E 411 Automatic Controls M E 418 Mechanical Considerations in Robotics M E 421 System Dynamics and Control M E 456 Machine Vision M E 475 Modeling and Simulation E E 324 Signals and Systems II E E 333 Electronic Systems Design E E 425 Machine learning: A Signal Processing Perspective E E 476 Control System Simulation CPR E 230 Cyber Security Fundamentals CPR E 388 Embedded Systems II: Mobile Platforms CPR E 414 Introduction to Software Systems for Big Data Analytics CPR E 419 Software Tools for Large Scale Data Analysis CPR E 421 Software Analysis and Verification for Safety and Security CPR E 458 Real Time Systems CPR E 488 Embedded Systems Design A B E 403 Modeling, Simulation, and Controls for Agricultural and Biological Systems A B E 404 Instrumentation for Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering A B E 410 Electronic Systems Integration for Agricultural Machinery I E 413 Stochastic Modeling, Analysis and Simulation I E 432 Industrial Automation I E 487 Big Data Analytics and Optimization AER E 365X Avioonics and Controls Laboratory AER E 407 Applied Formal Methods AER E 433 Spacecraft Dynamics and Control AER E 463 Introduction to Multidisciplinary Design Optimization AER E 464 Spacecraft Systems C E 449 Structural Health Monitoring C E 553 Traffic Engineering C E 556 Transportation Data Analysis Total Credits 15 Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.