Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Nursing, RN to BSN Pathway, B.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (120 UNITS) Bachelor of Science in Nursing The baccalaureate curriculum offers pre-licensure students and registered nurses with an associate degree in nursing (or its equivalent) an upper-division program leading to a Bachelor of Science degree with a major in nursing. The 120 units consist of a specific combination of prerequisites, general education, nursing and elective courses. Graduates are eligible for certification as public health nurses in the State of California. Once accepted into the program, students are required to have a clear criminal background check and other requirements. RN to BSN Pathway Admission Requirements Admission criteria for the RN to BS in Nursing pathway are posted on the School of Nursing website: nursing.fullerton.edu. Admission Procedures Students are accepted into the nursing program in the fall and spring semesters. For current admission deadlines, see the Admissions website at nursing.fullerton.edu. Submit a university application (available at calstate.edu/apply) and an official transcript of all previous college work to the Office of Admissions and Records Submit a nursing application online to the School of Nursing Check the School of Nursing website for application deadlines and required documents Once accepted into the program, students must submit all required current documents as listed on the School of Nursing website Requirements for the Degree (26 units) NURS 305 - Professional Nursing (3) NURS 310 - Nursing Research/Evidence-Based Practice (3) NURS 340 - Health Assessment (2) NURS 340L - Health Assessment Lab (1) NURS 345 - Pathophysiology (3) NURS 402 - Population Health Nursing (3) NURS 402L - Population Health Nursing Lab (2) NURS 452 - Leadership/Management in Professional Nursing (6) NURS 470 - Art and Science of Nursing (3) Additional Requirements Nine additional units of CSUF upper-division general electives are required to complete upper-division, in-residence units. A three-unit statistics course, with multivariate, inferential, parametric content, is a prerequisite. All students must complete the university upper-division baccalaureate writing requirement. NURS 305 meets the upper-division writing course requirement. National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX) (15 units) Per Executive Order 1084 System-wide Nursing Policy, the RN-BSN curriculum must include Credit for Demonstration of Prior Learning of Pre-licensure Nursing Content. Total (120 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).