Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search World Film Studies Minor Select a section... Overview Requirements Contact Information Olga Mesropova Associate Professor language.iastate.edu olgames@iastate.edu 515-294-7884 Stacey Weber-Feve Associate Professor sweber@iastate.edu 515-294-0315 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > World Film Studies Minor World Film Studies The World Film Studies undergraduate minor is an interdisciplinary, cross-cultural program in the department of World Languages and Cultures that provides coursework in the history, theory, and aesthetics of world cinemas. Upon completion of the World Film Studies minor students will 1) demonstrate solid skills of formal film analysis and knowledge of the essential theoretical concepts of cinema studies; 2) become familiar with prominent film directors, influential cinematic works, and cinematic traditions across the world; 3) gain an understanding of the evolution of cinema as an art form; understand the relations between cinema and other arts; 4) acquire knowledge and understanding of cinema as a mode of cultural expression and communication; develop new perspectives on U.S. culture and cinema through comparison with other world cultures and cinemas. A student seeking an undergraduate minor in World Film Studies must successfully complete a minimum of 15 credits, which must include W F S 278 Introduction to Global Film or ENGL 237 Survey of Film History and 12 credits selected from the following list of electives. Of these, at least 6 credits must be from courses taught in the department of World Languages and Cultures. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college or university requirement. Courses taught in WLC (at least 6 credits) CHIN 378 Chinese Film and Society 3 FRNCH 326 Studies in French or Francophone Film 3 FRNCH 378 French and/or Francophone Film Studies in English 3 GER 378 German Film and Media Studies 3-4 RUS 378 Russian Film Studies in English 3 SPAN 326 Studies in Hispanic Art or Film 3 SPAN 378 Hispanic Film Studies in English 3 Courses outside of WLC (up to 6 credits) ENGL 315 Creative Writing: Screenplays 3 ENGL 335 Studies in Film 3 ENGL 450 Seminar in Literary Genres 3 JL MC 307 Digital Video Production 3 AM IN 205 American Indians in the Movies 3 Curricular note: no more than 6 credits of each repeatable course (FRNCH 326 and FRNCH 378) may be applied to the minor. Both WLC 278 and ENG 237 (6 credits max) may count toward the minor. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.