Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Business Analytics Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plan Undergraduate Minor Graduate Programs Graduate Certificate Contact Information Union Pacific Undergraduate Programs Office 1200 Gerdin Business Building ivybusiness.iastate.edu undergrad@iastate.edu 515-294-8300 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Business > Business Analytics We live in a day where we are overwhelmed with data. Today's companies are data-rich and information-poor (DRIP). Business analytics is the transformation of data into insights for better decision making. This transformation is iterative and multi-disciplinary. Business analytics falls at the intersection of technology, statistics, and business. Students studying business analytics will gain the knowledge and skills necessary to understand and apply quantitative modeling techniques, design cross-functional solutions using standard and advanced business analytics technologies and software, evaluate data mining methods, communicate solutions using data visualizations, develop team and project management skills in a big data context, and effectively communicate analytical findings both orally and in writing. Undergraduate Major in Business Analytics For undergraduate curriculum in business, major in Business Analytics. The Department of Information Systems and Business Analytics offers a major in Business Analytics. Students will complete the general education requirements (including business foundation courses), business core requirements for the bachelor of science (B.S.) degree, and 21 additional credits in the major. The instructional objective of the business analytics major is to prepare students to realize the opportunities presented by data. This includes bringing structure to data, finding compelling patterns in data, communicating the stories buried in data, and advising decision-makers at all levels on the implications for processes and decisions through a data-driven approach. For more information on the undergraduate major in Business Analytics, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/business-a/ Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, undergraduate students majoring in Business Analytics will: Be effective communicators Be effective collaborators Be problem solvers Understand business concepts Recognize ethical and legal responsibilities to organizations Degree Requirements In addition to the basic business degree requirements (https://catalog.iastate.edu/collegeofbusiness/#curriculuminbusinesstext), Business Analytics majors must also complete: Required Courses (12 credits): DS 201 Introduction to Data Science 3 MIS 320 Database Management Systems * 3 or ACCT 384 Accounting Information Systems and Analytics MIS 436 Introduction to Business Analytics # 3 MIS 446 Advanced Business Analytics # 3 Elective Courses (9 credits): Select three courses from the following list: ACCT 484 Advanced Accounting Information Systems 3 FIN 426X Quantitative Investment Analysis 3 FIN 450 Analytical Methods in Finance 3 MGMT 473 Advanced Human Resource Management I 3 MIS 307 Intermediate Business Programming 3 MIS 315 Business Data Streams and Issues 3 MIS 368 Marketing Analytics 3 MIS 410X Blockchain and Cryptocurrency 3 MIS 441X Cybersecurity Analytics 3 MKT 361 Social Media Marketing Strategy 3 MKT 367 Consultative Problem Solving 3 MKT 445 Customer Relationship Management 3 SCM 430 Supply Chain Analytics 3 SCM 460 Decision Tools for Logistics and Operations Management 3 * If both MIS 320 and ACCT 384 are taken, one will count for 3 elective credits in the major. # STAT 326 is a prerequisite for these courses. NOTE: Business Analytics majors must take STAT 326 Introduction to Business Statistics II as part of the supporting courses. The X designation after a course number indicates this is an experimental course offered by the Department. Although in an experimental phase, these courses are open for registration just the same as permanent courses listed in the course catalog and count as elective choices in the major. Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minors taken outside the Ivy College of Business. Business Analytics, B.S. Sample 4-Year Plan (Your plan may differ) Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits BUSAD 102 or 103 1 ECON 102 3 ECON 101 3 STAT 226 3 COM S 113 3 PHIL 230 3 ENGL 150 3 ACCT 284 3 MATH 150 3 Global/International Perspective@ 3 LIB 160 1 BUSAD 203 1 14 16 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits ACCT 285 3 MIS 301 3 ACCT 301 (1 cr if taking ACCT 384) STAT 326 3 DS 201 3 SP CM 212 or 312 3 MATH 151 3 Natural Science 3 ENGL 250 3 Business Core Course 3 HUM SOC/SCI 3 15 15 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits MIS 320 or ACCT 384 3 MIS 436 3 Business Core Courses 6 Business Core Courses 6 ACCT 215 3 Global/International Perspective@ 3 US Diversity# 3 ENGL 302 3 General Electives (only 1 cr if ACCT 301 taken) 2 17 15 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits MIS 446 3 Business Analytics Elective 3 Business Core Course 3 MGMT 478* 3 Business Analytics Electives 6 General Electives 9 HUM/SOC SCI 3 15 15 Total Credits: 122 @ Courses in these requirements may also be used as Global Perspective. # US Diversity courses may be used to satisfy HUM/SOC SCI. * Requires completion of all core courses except MGMT 372 plus senior standing. Students must be admitted to the professional program in business to major in Business Analytics. The requirements to enter the professional program are: 1. Completion of at least 30 credits, Foundation Courses, ENGL 150, and all ENGL 101/99 courses if required. 2. A minimum GPA of 2.50 either cumulative or in the Foundation Courses. Early admission is allowed for Honors-eligible students. (See your advisor for specific information) Graduation Requirements: 1. Grade of “C” or higher in at least 30 credits of Core and Major courses. 2. 42 credits of 300+ level courses from a four-year institution. 3. 50% of required Business courses must be earned at ISU. 4. At least 32 credits and the LAST 32 credits must be earned at ISU (exceptions for study abroad and internship may be requested). 5. 122 Credits minimum and a Cumulative GPA of at least 2.00 with no quality point deficiencies. 6. A grade of C or better in ENGL 250 required, and also in one other required ENGL course. 7. All 300-level and higher business credits must be earned at a four-year college. 8. Multiple business majors must have at least 15 distinct credits in each of the major requirements; when applicable, one course can be shared between business majors; see your advisor regarding multiple business degree requirements. Undergraduate Minor in Business Analytics The Department of Information Systems and Business Analytics also offers a minor for non-Business Analytics majors in the Ivy College of Business. The minor requires 15 credits from an approved list of courses, including at least 6 credits in courses numbered 300 or above taken at Iowa State University with a grade of C or higher. The minor must include at least nine credits that are not used to satisfy any other department, college, or university requirement. Students with declared majors have priority over students with declared minors in courses with space constraints. Required Courses (9 credits): DS 201 Introduction to Data Science 3 MIS 320 Database Management Systems * 3 or ACCT 384 Accounting Information Systems and Analytics MIS 436 Introduction to Business Analytics # 3 Elective Courses (6 credits): Choose at least two 3-credit courses from the list below ACCT 484 Advanced Accounting Information Systems 3 FIN 450 Analytical Methods in Finance 3 MGMT 473 Advanced Human Resource Management I 3 MIS 307 Intermediate Business Programming 3 MIS 315 Business Data Streams and Issues 3 MIS 410X Blockchain and Cryptocurrency 3 MIS 441X Cybersecurity Analytics 3 MIS 446 Advanced Business Analytics # 3 MIS 368 Marketing Analytics 3 MKT 361 Social Media Marketing Strategy 3 MKT 367 Consultative Problem Solving 3 MKT 445 Customer Relationship Management 3 SCM 430 Supply Chain Analytics 3 SCM 460 Decision Tools for Logistics and Operations Management 3 * If both MIS 320 and ACCT 384 are taken, one will count for 3 elective credits in the minor. # STAT 326 is a prerequisite for these courses. Students are limited to three business majors/degrees/minors within the Ivy College of Business. This limit is on business majors/degrees/minors only, and does not apply to multiple majors/degrees/minors taken outside the Ivy College of Business. The X designation after a course number indicates this is an experimental course offered by the Department. Although in an experimental phase, these courses are open for registration just the same as permanent courses listed in the course catalog and count as elective choices in the major. For more information on the undergraduate minor in Business Analytics, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/zminors-and-certificates/ Graduate Programs Master of Business Analytics (MoBA) The master of business analytics (MoBA) is an interdisciplinary program that addresses the challenges of dealing with data analytics and business intelligence in the "Big Data" environment. The goal is to develop managers who will master analytics in ways that lead to increased profits for their company. This blended program offers both online and face-to-face education in a comprehensive approach that draws from Business, Computer Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Statistics, and Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering. It provides a foundation in data analytics project management, statistical and predictive modeling, consumer sentiment analysis, knowledge discovery, analytical reporting, segmentation analysis and data visualization. The program requires 30 credits of graduate level courses over a 21 month period. Students start the program with a one-week on-campus initiation class. Students then revisit campus once during the middle and once at the end of the program, while taking online classes during the rest of the time. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, master of business analytics (MoBA) students will: Be analytics modelers Be problem solvers in analytics Be evaluators of analytics Be critical thinkers in analytics Be collaborators in big data and analytics Be effective communicators For more information about the Master of Business Analytics program, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/mban/ Masters in Healthcare Analytics and Operations (MHAO) Students graduating from the Masters in Healthcare Analytics and Operations program will apply data and appropriate models to analyze operations and supply chains to develop and present actionable insights leading to better outcomes in the healthcare industry. Healthcare analytics uses historical and current data to predict trends and optimize operations, bringing benefits to patients, medical professionals, and healthcare supply chain partners. For more information about the Master of Healthcare Analytics and Operations program, please visit: https://www.ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/master-of-healthcare-analytics-and-operations/ Master of Business Administration (MBA) The Department of Information Systems and Business Analytics participates in the full-time and part-time Master of Business Administration (MBA) program. The MBA is a 48-credit, non-thesis, non-creative component curriculum. Thirty of the 48 credits are core courses and the remaining 18 are graduate electives. Within the MBA program, students may develop an area of specialization in Business Analytics. Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation, MBA students will: Demonstrate effective communication skills Effectively lead and work in diverse teams Critically solve business problems Integrate ethical and global perspectives in decision making For more information about the MBA program with a specialization in Business Analytics, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/degree/mba/ Graduate Certificate The graduate certificate in business analytics will address the challenges of dealing with issues of "big data" and its analysis to extract actionable insights, equips business professionals with the basic analytic concepts and techniques necessary in various areas of business such as marketing, supply chain, operations, forensics, and risk management. Students will have a foundation in data management, business analytics, modeling, and communicating through data visualization. The certificate is for working professionals as well as students enrolled in graduate programs who are employed or seeking a career as business analysts, analytic systems designers, and data scientists to help improve business performance. The certificate is available online, on campus in Ames and at Capital Square in Des Moines. For more information about the graduate certificate in business analytics, please visit: https://ivybusiness.iastate.edu/ba-certificate/ Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.