Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Environmental Studies, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Master of Science in Environmental Studies (36 UNITS) Application Deadlines The program only admits students in the fall semester of each year. The deadline for completing online applications is July 1 of the year in which a student seeks to begin the program, though application review will begin March 1 and continue until all open slots in the program are filled (csumentor.edu). Mailed applications must be postmarked by the same deadline. However, deadlines may change based upon enrollment projections. Check the university graduate studies website for current information: fullerton.edu/graduate. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, the program requires a grade-point average of 3.0 in the last 60 units of coursework attempted and two letters of recommendation, at least one of which must come from a college or university. Because the program accepts students as a cohort, the size of the cohort will limit the number of applicants accepted. Applicants’ interests much match those of the faculty advisers. Students must indicate potential advisers in their letters of intent (review faculty adviser interests at: hss.fullerton.edu/evnstud/) and should contact potential advisers prior to submitting applications. Prerequisites for admission differ, depending on the selected track. Environment and Society Track One undergraduate course in ecology; one course in quantitative methods. Environmental Sciences and Technology Track Nine upper-division units in the natural and/or physical sciences, mathematics and/or engineering. Students without these prerequisites may be admitted provisionally, but must take these courses during their first year. In addition, students must be assigned an adviser upon entry. Additional requisites may be established at the discretion of the adviser. Graduate Standing - Classified After completing no more than nine semester units of adviser approved coursework and developing an approved study plan, the student must apply for classified standing. Study Plan Core Courses (9 units) ENST 500 - Environmental Issues and Approaches (3) ENST 510 - Environmental Evaluation and Protection (3) ENST 520 - Environmental Research and Analysis (3) Electives (9-15 units), chose from: ENST 595T - Selected Topics in Environmental Problems (3) ENST 596 - Internship in Environmental Studies (3) ENST 599 - Independent Graduate Research (1-3) Cross-Disciplinary Electives (9-15 units) Courses outside Environmental Studies are chosen with prior approval of the faculty adviser and graduate program adviser. The graduate program adviser will maintain a list of acceptable electives. No more than 12 units can be taken from the undergraduate major department. Planning Requirement A three-unit planning course must be included, either from environmental studies electives or cross-disciplinary electives. Culminating Experience (0-3 units) All Environmental Studies students are required to complete a thesis, project or comprehensive exam. For the thesis or project options, students must register in ENST 597 or ENST 598 . Students may only register for the course once. If they do not complete their project or thesis within this semester, they will be assigned a grade of RP for the course until a letter grade can be assigned. Students choosing the comprehensive exam must take an additional section of ENST 595T . Since students are required to maintain continuous enrollment, they must register in GRAD 700, either through University Extended Education (UEE) or CSUF. Students may only enroll in GRAD 700 through UEE for one semester if they are working on a project, and for two semesters if they are working on a thesis. Additional Information For further information, consult the graduate program coordinator or graduate adviser. Total (36 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).