Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Educational Leadership, Ed.D. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership Admissions Requirements Minimum requirements for admission include: An earned baccalaureate degree and master’s degree from accredited institutions of higher education with a GPA in upper division and graduate study of 3.0 or above Sufficient preparation and experience pertinent to educational leadership to benefit from the program Submission of Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores on the three GRE tests, taken within the last five years Demonstrated educational leadership potential and skills, including successful experience in school, postsecondary, community and/or policy leadership Demonstrated academic excellence, problem-solving ability and an interest in critically assessing and bringing about improvements within current educational policies and practices Three confidential recommendation forms attesting to the leadership ability and scholarship of the candidate A written statement of purpose reflecting understanding of the challenges facing the public schools or community colleges/institutions of higher education in California Professional resume Examples of professional writing Response to a writing prompt administered on-campus prior to the interview Interview with the Admissions Committee Meeting the minimum requirements qualifies an individual for consideration, but does not guarantee admission to the Program. Admission will be granted on a competitive basis. The Ed.D. in Educational Leadership will not include a foreign language requirement. Specializations Two specializations focus on developing leaders in education: Community College Leadership PreK-12 Educational Leadership Program of Study The program includes two summers and two complete academic years of coursework, followed by a period during which the candidate undertakes the dissertation. Classes will be held in the late afternoons and evenings, and on weekends to accommodate the schedules of working professionals. All candidates are required to be enrolled at CSUF for a minimum of six terms. The courses offered throughout the program are expected to be taken by individuals who also hold full-time positions. Their full-time employment is viewed as an asset and as providing important opportunities to apply theoretical and empirical material covered in their coursework. The program of study distributed over 12 months will facilitate: (a) integration of graduate studies and practice; (b) periods of intensive study among candidates; and (c) opportunities to work with faculty from CSUF. Dissertation All students in the CSUF Ed.D. program will complete a rigorous research-based dissertation that integrates theory and research in the study of an educational problem of practice. The dissertation will include the results of the candidate’s independent research and will typically focus on examination of: (a) an educational problem of practice; (b) a practice or program; or (c) an educational policy or reform. Most dissertations will be studies undertaken in the local context, having the potential to contribute to solutions of local educational problems. Dissertations will utilize a range of qualitative, quantitative and mixed-methods research methodologies. The dissertation will present the results of the candidate’s independent investigation in a manner that contributes both to professional knowledge in education and to the improvement of educational practice. Examples might include studies examining reforms in curriculum and instruction, professional development, applications of technology and investigations of access, equity and inclusion in schools and community colleges. Each Ed.D. student’s dissertation must conform to the CSU regulations and specifications with regard to format and method of preparation. Defense of Dissertation During a final oral examination the candidate defends the dissertation. The dissertation defense will address the theoretical and conceptual background, relevant literature, data collection techniques, data analysis strategies and results and implications concerning the question(s) studied. Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).