Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Information Systems, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Master of Science in Information Systems (30 UNITS) Concentrations in the M.S. in Information Systems are Business Analytics, Decision Sciences and IS Management. For students with an undergraduate degree in business administration, the curriculum may be completed in one to two-and-a-half years, depending on the number of courses taken per semester. Students with a bachelor’s degree in a field other than business administration are eligible to apply; however, such students will be required to complete additional courses or demonstrate proficiency as described under the Curriculum requirements below. Cal State Fullerton is the only university in Orange County accredited by the AACSB International at the undergraduate and graduate level for both accounting and business administration. Most graduate courses in the Mihaylo College of Business Administration and Economics (MCBE) require “classified MCBE status” and are open only to students with classified standing in the M.S. in Information Systems, M.S. in Information Technology, M.S. in Taxation, M.A. in Economics, and MBA or M.S. in Accountancy programs. Admission Requirements Admission is competitive. Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants will be evaluated based on the following: Satisfactory grade point average (GPA) and a satisfactory score on the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) or Graduate Record Exam (GRE). Preferential admission will be given to applicants who have an overall GMAT or GRE score in the 50th percentile or above, and who have a GPA of at least 3.0 A bachelor’s degree with a major in business administration, equivalent to the degree as offered at CSUF. The degree must include calculus equivalent to passing MATH 135 with a “C” (2.0) or better. Students with a bachelor’s degree in a field other than business administration are eligible to apply. However such students will be required to complete additional courses or demonstrate proficiency as described under the Curriculum requirements below. Courses in the major that are more than seven years old must be evaluated/validated for currency For international students, a minimum score of 570 on the TOEFL exam or 88 on the internet based test (IBT) is required, or a minimum score of 7 on IELTS is required Recommendation from the ISDS Admission Committee based upon a review of the above requirements, the student’s “Statement of Purpose” and prior work experience. Additional coursework may be required of conditionally admitted students who holistically satisfy the criteria but are weak in one of the above areas Study Plan An overall 3.0 (B) GPA is required in study plan courses and all applicable coursework. Any study plan course with a grade lower than “C” (2.0) must be repeated with at a “C” (2.0) or better. Business Foundation Courses Students admitted with a bachelor’s degree in a field other than business administration will be required to complete the following foundation courses. The foundation course requirements can be waived if students have previously completed equivalent courses. Required Courses (6 units) ISDS 309 - Introduction to Programming (3) MATH 135 - Business Calculus (3) Electives (6 units) ACCT 510 - Financial Accounting (3) ECON 515 - Microeconomic Perspective for Managers (3) or MGMT 339 - Managing Operations (3) FIN 320 - Financial Management I (3) MGMT 518 - Legal and Ethical Environment of Business (3) or MKTG 351 - Principles of Marketing (3) MKTG 353 - Marketing Information Technology (3) Program Courses At least 21 of the 30 units required for the Master of Science in Information Systems degree must be at the 500 level. Core Courses (15 units) ISDS 415 - Principles of Business Intelligence (3) ISDS 513 - Statistical Analysis (3) or ISDS 540 - Statistics for Data Science (3) * ISDS 514 - Decision Models for Business and Economics (3) * or ISDS 558 - Advanced Software Development with Web Applications (3) * ISDS 551 - Info Resources and IT Project Management (3) ISDS 555 - Business Databases: Design & Processing (3) Capstone Course (3 units) Students must complete the capstone course with a “B” (3.0) or better. ISDS 576 - Business Modeling and Simulation (3) * ISDS 577 - Seminar in Information Systems Implementation (3) * Additional Information * Students must obtain department approval to enroll in these courses Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).