Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Economics, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30-33 UNITS) The master’s degree in economics provides preparation for professional careers in private industry and government, and provides a foundation for further graduate work at the doctoral level. Students have the option of writing a thesis (the thesis track is 30 units) or taking a comprehensive exam (the comprehensive exam track is 33 units) to earn their degrees. Most graduate courses in Mihaylo College of Business and Economics require classified “MCBE status” and are open only to students with classified standing in the M.A. in Economics, MBA, M.S. in Accountancy, M.S. in Information Systems or M.S. in Taxation programs. Admission Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, admission to the program will be based on the following: a GPA of at least 3.0 in the following courses or their equivalents (corresponding CSUF courses are in parenthesis): Business Calculus (MATH 135 ), Principles of Microeconomics (ECON 201 ), Principles of Macroeconomics (ECON 202 ), Intermediate Microeconomics (ECON 310 or ECON 315 ), Intermediate Macroeconomics (ECON 320 ), Probability and Statistics (ISDS 361A or ECON 340 ), and one advanced undergraduate elective in economics; for international students, a minimum TOEFL score of 550 (80 iBT) or an IELTS of 7.0; Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores (the GRE score is valid only if the examination was taken no more than five years prior to the date that the application is submitted), at least two academic letters of recommendation, a resume and a statement of purpose not to exceed 750 words; A GPA of 2.75 (on a 4.0 scale) or better is required in the last 60 units. An applicant who does not meet one or more of the requirements above may still be considered for admission, depending on the evaluation of the entire application file (the students must, however, have a GPA of 2.5 in the last 60 semester units at the time of admission). If admitted, an applicant with one or more deficiencies may be asked to take specified deficiency courses and exams. Students admitted with deficiencies are called “conditionally classified” students. Conditionally classified students can take a limited number of courses at the graduate level, subject to the approval of the graduate adviser of the department. Students are expected to advance promptly to classified standing. Classified students are eligible to take graduate courses for which they are qualified. Study Plan Within one semester of admission, the students are advised to prepare a study plan. A study plan reflects a selection of approved courses that have been taken or will be taken by the student to earn the graduate degree. Students are urged to meet as soon as possible with the graduate adviser in the Department of Economics to file a study plan and advance to classified standing. Any study plan course in which a “C-” (1.7) or below is received must be repeated with at least a “C” (2.0), regardless of the overall grade-point average of the students. A minimum 3.0 GPA is required for graduation. Students are also required to graduate in a timely manner. Required Courses (21 units) ECON 440 - Introduction to Econometrics (3) ECON 441 - Introduction to Mathematical Economics (3) ECON 502 - Advanced Microeconomics (3) ECON 503 - Advanced Macroeconomics (3) ECON 504 - Advanced Microeconometrics: Causality and Policy Evaluation (3) ECON 505 - Advanced Macroeconometrics: Time Series and Forecasting (3) ECON 595 - Current Research in Economics (3) or approved 500-level substitute Note: ECON 440 is a prerequisite to ECON 504 and ECON 505 . Area and Electives Courses (6 units minimum) Select a minimum of 6 units of adviser-approved electives. Students may choose to focus on one of the following elective tracks: Financial and monetary economics Health, aging and labor economics Public economics, law and industrial organization International, environmental and development economics In addition to ECON 441 , only two more 400-level courses are allowed on the Study Plan. Terminal Evaluation ECON 598 - Thesis Research (3) plus six units of 500-level electives; or Comprehensive Examinations: electives may include a maximum of six units of 400-level electives Total (30-33 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).