Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Social Work, Aging Concentration, M.S.W. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (60 UNITS) The Aging concentration prepares graduate-level social workers to practice professional social work with aging populations and their families. The curriculum emphasizes multigenerational coursework within the concentration. Admission Requirements Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, requirements for admission to conditionally classified standing in the program include: Commitment to a two- or three-year course of study for completion of the M.S.W. program Have earned a minimum grade-point average of 3.0 in the last 60 semester units or last 90 quarter units as documented by official transcript(s) from all higher education institutions attended A strong liberal arts undergraduate foundation that is similar to the undergraduate graduation requirements from the California State University or University of California systems Evidence of language skills and/or cultural experiences appropriate to the diverse communities to be served One year of paid or volunteer experience in a human service context or related area Submission of a personal statement self-assessment essay. Students must respond to essay questions explaining why they would be good candidates for the program, including a description of their experience and/or commitment to social work, evidence of personal qualifications, motivation and potential that shows promise of becoming a successful social worker Submission of three letters of reference, including professional references and those from academic instructors Completion of an interview Submission of two applications - a CSUmentor (Cal State Apply) application and the Department of Social Work application submitted online to the department For international students from countries where English is not the official language, a score of 575 on the paper exam is required. A student scoring between 555-574 on the paper exam or 83-88 on the Internet-based TOEFL may be admitted conditionally depending upon an evaluation of the entire application file Accessibility Issues - Special accommodations for disabled students will be made on an individual student, as-needed basis in compliance with the CSUF Catalog (online catalog at fullerton.edu/disabledservices/handbook/SupportiveServices.htm). Please contact the department chair for more information The Graduate Record Exam (GRE) may be submitted as an optional form of documentation, but is not required Classification and Advancement to Candidacy Advancement to classified standing and candidacy requires the student to maintain continued good academic standing in all coursework and field experiences. In the case of unsatisfactory academic performance, the chair of the Social Work Department, with the approval of the Office of Graduate Studies, shall recommend remediation or dismissal of a student. Under special circumstances, a graduate student may be approved for a one-semester leave of absence or, with approval of the Social Work Department, for a two-semester leave. For such consideration, the student must be in good academic standing. (See the “Graduate Regulations ” section of this catalog for additional details concerning advancement to classified standing or candidacy.) Students will be required to meet with their faculty adviser and declare a concentration during their first semester of study. Advisement Upon admission to the program, each student is assigned to a faculty adviser. Advisers provide academic assistance, help students develop official study plans and monitor their progress throughout the duration of enrollment. Students must consult their adviser on a regular basis. Total (60 units) M.S.W. Curriculum The M.S.W. requires completion over two years of full-time study, or a three-year program that slightly modifies this course of study and spreads the 60 units over three years. Foundation coursework is based on a generalist social work practice curriculum that prepares students for advanced academic work in one of three concentrations - Aging, Child Welfare or Community Mental Health. Students are exposed to lifespan perspectives that address life cycle issues and concepts from birth to old age. While the concentrations are designed to allow students to focus on a particular population, it is expected that the student’s education will involve sufficient foundational content to allow him or her to transfer this knowledge to any population or service setting. The program will emphasize a Direct Practice method. This methodological approach is designed to prepare students for advanced practice and leadership roles in public and nonprofit social services agencies and in voluntary agencies serving children, youth and families and in those providing community mental health services to the chronically and seriously mentally ill. First Year Foundation Curriculum MSW 501 - Social Work Perspectives on Human Behavior I (3) MSW 502 - Social Work Perspectives on Human Behavior II (3) MSW 510 - Social Work Practice I (3) MSW 511 - Social Work Practice II (3) MSW 520 - Social Welfare Policy and Services I (3) MSW 521 - Social Welfare Policy and Services II (3) MSW 530 - Applied Social Work Research Methods I (3) MSW 540 - Social Work Field Instruction I (3) MSW 541 - Social Work Field Instruction II (3) MSW 550 - Social Work Practice with Diverse Populations (3) Second Year Advanced Curriculum: Aging MSW 503 - Social Work Perspectives on Human Behavior III (3) MSW 516 - Aging: A Multigenerational Perspective: Advanced Social Work Practice (3) MSW 564 - Macro Social Work in Communities and Organizations (3) MSW 542 - Advanced Social Work Field Instruction I (3) MSW 543 - Advanced Social Work Field Instruction II (3) MSW 524 - Aging, A Multi-Generational Perspective: Policy and Social Work (3) Electives (6 units, 3 units of which must be practice-based, adviser approved) COUN 522A - Diagnosis and Treatment Planning (3) COUN 525 - Psychopharmacology for Counselors (3) COUN 535 - Addictions Counseling (3) GERO 503 - Aging and Public Policy (3) HESC 520 - Advanced Topics in Community Health (3) MSW 531 - Applied Social Work Research Methods II (3) MSW 561 - Social Work Practice and the Law (3) MSW 570 - Social Work Practice with Addiction Disorders (3) MSW 571 - Social Work Perspectives on Developmental Psychopathology and Family Context (3) MSW 572 - Spirituality, Religion, and Social Work (3) MSW 573 - Trauma-Focused Social Work Practice (3) MSW 574 - Death and Dying: Social Work Practice and End-of-Life Care (3) MSW 575 - International Social Work (3) PSYC 545 - Advanced Psychopathology (3) Culminating Experience MSW 596 - MSW Master’s Project Development (3) MSW 597 - MSW Master’s Project (3) Total (60 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).