Skip to Content Home Library Online Services Directory Maps Calendar A Legacy of W.K. Kellogg SEARCH Main Menu About Our University Admissions Academics Campus Life Athletics Giving Expand/Collapse Menu Skip To Content About Cal Poly Pomona Cal Poly Pomona Overview Visitor Information Campus Maps & Tours News Events Administration Skip To Content Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Continuing Education Admissions Military & Veterans Admissions Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Accounts & Fees Skip To Content Academics Colleges & Departments Majors & Degrees University Catalog & Academic Schedules University Library Research Academic Resources Registrar Skip To Content Campus Life Student Services Student Activities Recreation & Fitness Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Diversity Calendars & Events Campus Safety & Emergency Info Skip To Content Athletics Visit Athletics Website Skip To Content Giving Why Give How to Give Where to Give Home About Our University Admissions Academics Campus Life Athletics Giving Contact Us Jobs Privacy Library Accessibility A-Z Index Title IX Directory Safety & Emergency Info College of Agriculture College of Business Administration College of Education and Integrative Studies College of Engineering College of Environmental Design College of the Extended University The Collins College of Hospitality Management College of Letters, Arts, and Social Sciences College of Science Email MyCPP BroncoDirect Blackboard Change Your Password eHelp Feedback File Viewers © 2016 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved Cal Poly Pomona May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog - Near-Final DRAFT Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog - Near-Final DRAFT 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 University Catalog (Revised 01-05-2015) [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2014 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2012-2013 University Catalog (Revised 2012-10-02) [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools/Colleges and Departments Policies and non-curricular content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home Archived PDF Catalogs University Administration, Regulations, and History Enrollment Services Academic Policies Graduate Studies - General Information General Education Program University Library Student Programs for Support and Enrichment Centers and Institutes Don B. Huntley College of Agriculture College of Business Administration College of Education and Integrative Studies College of Engineering College of Environmental Design College of Letters, Arts, and Social Sciences College of Science The Collins College of Hospitality Management College of Professional and Global Education University Interdisciplinary Programs Index of Courses Index of Academic Programs Index of Academic Colleges, Departments, and Programs Academic Calendar Directory My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog - Near-Final DRAFT 2022-2023 University Catalog - Near-Final DRAFT Thank you for visiting the Cal Poly Pomona 2022-2023 University Catalog. This catalog is a work-in-progress and is published to allow current and potential students to plan for their programs for the upcoming academic year. This near-final draft catalog includes courses and policies approved and information provided on or before March 31, 2022. The information in this catalog is subject to change. The final version of the 2022-2023 University Catalog will be published on May 31, 2022. WELCOME TO CAL POLY POMONA! "Let us think of education as the means of developing our greatest abilities, because in each of us there is a private hope and dream, which fulfilled, can be translated into benefit for everyone . . ." --President John F. Kennedy Congratulations on taking this first step towards one of life's greatest, and most rewarding adventures! Here at Cal Poly Pomona, you will receive the highest quality education that is aimed at fulfilling your "hope and dreams" of success. In our "learn by doing" environment, you will put theory into practice, and you will be well prepared to enter the work force or graduate school, or make other contributions that are not only beneficial to you, but also to your family, community, and indeed our nation and beyond. Indeed, our graduates are among the country's most sought-after professionals. Our world-class faculty represent a hallmark of Cal Poly Pomona. More importantly, they are a dedicated and talented group who, along with outstanding staff and administrators, are committed to your educational success. I am confident that the friends you make and the partnerships you form during your time at Cal Poly Pomona, will be among the most memorable and treasured of your lifetime. You enjoy the opportunity to select from a broad array of programs, but the collegiate experience is much more than academic coursework. With more than 250 student clubs and organizations you learn and practice skills of team building and leadership, while making contributions to the campus and community. I invite you to become a part of our university family and encourage you to take advantage of the many opportunities that await you here at Cal Poly Pomona where your dreams can soar! I look forward to seeing you on campus. Sincerely, Soraya Coley, President "Student-Centered, Faculty and Staff-Focused, and Community-Minded" Students experiencing difficulties with the web application are welcome to request assistance from the Bronco Advising Center at 909-869-4600 or bac@cpp.edu. Faculty, staff, and administrators experiencing difficulties with the web application are welcome to request assistance from Ashley Ly, Senior Curriculum Specialist, at 909-869-2718 or atly@cpp.edu. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 Cal Poly Pomona. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).