Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Political Science, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 units) The degree is designed both to enlarge and deepen the competence of political science students. It is especially planned for the professional improvement and advancement of high school and community college teachers, government employees and military personnel. It also prepares students for entering a doctoral program in political science or for law school. The M.A. program provides training and preparation for journalists, special librarians and research staffers and for all people active in civic affairs and political life. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, acceptance into the M.A. in the political science program requires a grade-point average of 3.0 in the major field and in all political science courses. If the major is not in one of the social sciences, the GPA requirement also applies to upper-division social science courses taken. If a student’s GPA does not meet these criteria, the student may appeal to the department’s graduate committee for a waiver. Normally, admission to the master’s program requires that a student possess a bachelor’s degree in political science, a minor in political science or a major in an allied social science field with a minimum of 15 units of political science courses. For those without such a background, the M.A. Coordinator may require the applicant to take a group of upper-division political science courses at the 300 and/or 400 level (not more than nine units of which will be at the 300 level) prior to admission to the program. This requirement is to assure that the student will be prepared for graduate-level work in the discipline of political science. In addition to the above requirements, applicants need to submit a writing sample to the M.A. Political Science Coordinator. Graduate Standing - Classified A student admitted to conditionally classified status may apply for classified standing, which requires development of an approved study plan prior to completing 13 units of study plan coursework. Refer to the “Graduate Regulations ” section of this catalog for further information on classified standing and general study plan requirements. Study Plan Each candidate for a degree should, in consultation with the graduate adviser, arrange for the appointment of a graduate committee, composed of three faculty members, one of whom will serve as chair. This committee will approve the study plan, conduct the examination(s) and supervise the thesis if the student chooses that option. As a requirement for admission to classified standing, the student, in cooperation with the graduate program adviser, must develop a study plan of 30 units of coursework: Required Seminar Work (18 units) Students are required to take a minimum of one political science seminar each semester until completion of the entire sequence. Scope and Theory of Political Science (6 units) POSC 540 - Seminar Readings in Political Philosophy (3) POSC 541 - Seminar in Contemporary Political Theory (3) American Politics/Public Affairs (6 units) Section A (3 units) POSC 512 - American Political Institutions (3) POSC 513 - American Political Behavior (3) POSC 514 - Seminar in American Political Development (3) Section B (3 units, or 3 additional units from Section A) POSC 519 - State and Local Government (3) POSC 509 - Foundations of Public Administration (3) POSC 525 - Local Government Management (3) POSC 528 - Seminar in Public Policy (3) Cross-National Politics (6 units) POSC 530 - Seminar in Cross-National Politics (3) POSC 551 - Seminar in Theories of International Relations (3) POSC 555 - World Order (3) Research Methods (3 units) POSC 501 - Political Science Research Design (3) Adviser-Approved 400- and 500-Level Elective Coursework (3-9 units) These classes may normally be in a student’s chosen area of specialization. They may include, where appropriate, POSC 599 (6 units maximum). Culminating Experience (0-6 units) POSC 597 - Project (3-6) POSC 598 - Thesis (3-6) Comprehensive Exam (0) Additional Information No more than 13 units taken prior to classified standing may be applied to a student’s study plan. No more than nine units taken at another institution may be transferred, and these must be approved by the adviser, committee and Office of Graduate Studies. Culminating Experience Requirements for the M.A. in Political Science Students select one of the following three options to complete the program, after consulting with the program adviser. Comprehensive written and oral exams in: (a) the scope and theory of political science; (b) American politics/public affairs; and (c) cross-national politics. All three sections must be successfully completed or the entire examination must be retaken. The examination has a written and an oral component. A student who does not pass the written portion is ineligible to take the oral component. The examinations may be retaken only once after an initial failure. A thesis completed in accord with university regulations on theses, to include an oral defense. This option may be especially desirable for students planning on further graduate work at the doctoral level. Students selecting this option may take up to six units in thesis credit. Completion and oral defense of a project, including a required oral defense and possible class presentations, depending on the project topic. Students selecting this option may take up to six units of credit associated with completing the project. The project option is intended for students interested in community college teaching or in working in practical politics. For advisement and further information, consult the M.A. in Political Science adviser. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).