Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Public Health, M.P.H. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (42 UNITS) The purpose of the Master of Public Health program is to prepare public health professionals to draw on the knowledge and skills from a variety of disciplines and to define, critically assess, evaluate and resolve public health problems. MPH program graduates will have a common educational grounding that will enable them to work effectively with the broad spectrum of public health issues related to their public health careers. Application Deadlines The deadline for completing online applications is posted on the department website for the following fall semester (see Cal State Apply). Admission to Graduate Standing - Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. Additional requirements for acceptance in the MPH program include: Copy of official transcript(s) from all college work Two letters of recommendation with recommendation forms and waivers A narrative statement (300-500 words describing how the program relates to professional goals) A current résumé Completion of three units of statistics and research methods (appropriate courses include statistics, epidemiology, research methods, program design and evaluation, etc.) with a “B” (3.0) or better Appropriate educational background for the public health program. Professionals currently in field can demonstrate proficiency by coursework or by portfolio review or similar supporting evidence) 2.7 cumulative GPA A Graduate Records Examination (GRE) score Paid or volunteer experience in public health, health education or related health area Communication skills utilizing a second language encouraged Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified It may also be possible for applicants who have minimal deficiencies in prerequisite requirements, as detailed above, but are otherwise highly qualified to be admitted in conditionally classified graduate standing, with provisions made for removal of deficiencies prior to the granting of classified standing. For further information, consult with the MPH Program Coordinator. Graduate Study Plan Thirty of the 42 units required for the degree are core competency classes, including a six-unit internship and 12-16 units of electives, 75 percent of which must be 500-level courses. Students work with a faculty adviser to select these electives to support career areas in health promotion, environmental and occupational health and safety, gerontological health, or in a special studies track such as health anthropology or health counseling or other special academic/career needs. Core Course Requirements (30 units) HESC 500 - Issues in Public Health (3) HESC 501 - Advanced Methods in Epidemiology (3) HESC 508 - Statistical Methods in Health Science (3) HESC 510 - Research Methods in Health Science (3) HESC 515 - Advanced Environmental Health (3) HESC 524 - Public Health Administration (3) HESC 535 - Program Planning and Evaluation (3) HESC 540 - Advanced Study in Health Promotion and Disease Prevention (3) HESC 550 - Graduate Internship (3-6) Electives (9-12 units) Electives must be approved by an adviser. Culminating Experience HESC 597 - Project (3) or HESC 598 - Thesis (3) or Comprehensive Exam (0) * Additional Information * Students who select the Comprehensive Examination will be required to complete an additional adviser-approved 500-level course (3 units). Total (42 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).