Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advising Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog Academic Departments and Programs Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Accountancy, School of Go to information for this department. Master of Science • Accountancy, M.S. • Accounting and Finance, M.S. • Taxation, M.S. African American Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Ethnic Studies, African American Studies Concentration, B.A. Non-Degree • African American Studies Minor Aging Studies Program Go to information for this department. Master of Science • Gerontology, M.S. Non-Degree • Aging Studies Minor American Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • American Studies, B.A. Master of Arts • American Studies, M.A. Non-Degree • American Studies Minor Anthropology, Division of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Anthropology, B.A. Master of Arts • Anthropology, M.A. Non-Degree • Anthropology Minor Certificate • Forensic Anthropology Certificate Art, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Art, Art History Concentration, B.A. • Art, General Studio Art Concentration, B.A. • Art, Teaching Concentration, B.A. Bachelor of Fine Arts • Art, Ceramics Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Computer Animation and Game Art Concentration, B.F.A • Art, Creative Photography and Experimental Media Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Drawing and Painting Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Entertainment Art/Animation Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Glass Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Graphic and Interactive Design Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Illustration Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Jewelry and Metals Concentration, B.F.A. • Art, Sculpture Concentration, B.F.A. Master of Arts • Art, Art History Concentration, M.A. • Art, Ceramics Concentration, M.A. • Art, Crafts (including Jewelry/Metalsmithing and Woodworking) Concentration, M.A. • Art, Creative Photography Concentration, M.A. • Art, Drawing and Painting Concentration, M.A. • Art, Exhibition Design Concentration, M.A. • Art, Glass Concentration, M.A. • Art, Graphic and Interactive Design Concentration, M.A. • Art, Illustration Concentration, M.A. • Art, Sculpture Concentration, M.A. Master of Fine Arts • Art, Ceramics Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Crafts (including Jewelry/Metalsmithing and Woodworking) Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Creative Photography and Experimental Media Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Drawing and Painting Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Exhibition Design Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Glass Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Graphic and Interactive Design Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Illustration Concentration, M.F.A. • Art, Sculpture Concentration, M.F.A. Non-Degree • Art Minor Certificate • Museum Studies Certificate Asian American Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Ethnic Studies, Asian American Studies Concentration, B.A. Non-Degree • Asian American Studies Minor Asian Studies Program Go to information for this department. Non-Degree • Asian Studies Minor Biological Science, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Biological Science, Cell and Developmental Biology Concentration, B.S. • Biological Science, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Concentration, B.S. • Biological Science, Marine Biology Concentration, B.S. • Biological Science, Molecular Biology and Biotechnology Concentration, B.S. • Biological Science, Plant Biology Concentration, B.S. Master of Science • Biology, M.S. Non-Degree • Biotechnology Minor • Cell and Molecular Biology Minor • Environmental Biology Minor Business Administration Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Business Administration, Accounting and Business Analytics Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Accounting Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Business Analytics Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Business and Economics Analytics Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Business Economics Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Decision Sciences Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Entertainment and Hospitality Management Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Entrepreneurship Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Finance Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, General Management Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Human Resources Management Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Information Systems Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Joint Emphasis in Accounting and Finance, B.A. • Business Administration, Joint Emphasis in Accounting and Information Systems, B.A. • Business Administration, Legal Studies Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Marketing and Information Systems Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Marketing Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Operations and Supply Chain Management Concentration, B.A. • Business Administration, Professional Business Concentration B.A. (online) • Business Administration, Risk Management and Insurance Concentration, B.A. Master of Business Administration • Business Administration, Accounting Concentration, M.B.A. • Business Administration, Business Analytics Concentration, M.B.A. • Business Administration, Finance Concentration, M.B.A. • Business Administration, Human Resources Concentration, M.B.A. • Business Administration, Information Systems Concentration, M.B.A. • Business Administration, M.B.A. • Business Administration, M.B.A. (fully employed) • Business Administration, Management Concentration, M.B.A. • Business Administration, Marketing Concentration, M.B.A. • Business Administration, Operations and Supply Chain Management Concentration, M.B.A. • Business Administration, Organizational Leadership Concentration, M.B.A. • Business Administration, Risk Management and Insurance Concentration, M.B.A. Non-Degree • Business Administration Minor • Entrepreneurship Minor • Information Systems Minor Chemistry and Biochemistry, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Chemistry, B.A. Bachelor of Science • Biochemistry, B.S. • Chemistry, B.S. Master of Arts • Chemistry, M.A. Master of Science • Chemistry, Analytical Concentration, M.S. • Chemistry, Biochemistry Concentration, M.S. • Chemistry, Inorganic Concentration, M.S. • Chemistry, Organic Concentration, M.S. • Chemistry, Physical Concentration, M.S. Non-Degree • Chemistry Minor Chicana and Chicano Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Ethnic Studies, Chicana and Chicano Studies Concentration, B.A. Non-Degree • Chicana and Chicano Studies Minor Child and Adolescent Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Child and Adolescent Studies, Adolescent/Youth Development Concentration, B.S. • Child and Adolescent Studies, Early Childhood Development Concentration, B.S. • Child and Adolescent Studies, Elementary School Settings Concentration, B.S. • Child and Adolescent Studies, Family and Community Contexts Concentration, B.S. Non-Degree • Adolescent Development Minor • Child and Adolescent Studies Minor Cinema and Television Arts, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Cinema and Television Arts, B.A. Master of Fine Arts • Screenwriting, M.F.A. Non-Degree • Cinema and Television Arts Minor Civil and Environmental Engineering, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Civil Engineering, Architectural Engineering Emphasis, B.S. • Civil Engineering, B.S. Master of Science • Civil Engineering, M.S. • Environmental Engineering, M.S. (online only) Communication Sciences and Disorders, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Communicative Disorders, B.A. Master of Arts • Communicative Disorders, M.A. Non-Degree • American Speech-Language-Hearing Association SLP Certification • California SLP Licensure • Speech-Language Pathology Services Credential in Language, Speech and Hearing Certificate • Communication Sciences and Disorders Multicultural Certificate Communications, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Communications, Advertising Concentration, B.A. • Communications, Entertainment and Tourism Communications Concentration, B.A. • Communications, Journalism Concentration, B.A. • Communications, Public Relations Concentration, B.A. Master of Arts • Communications, Communications in Tourism and Entertainment Concentration, M.A. • Communications, Mass Communications Research and Theory Concentration, M.A. • Communications, Professional Communications Concentration, M.A. Non-Degree • Advertising Minor • Journalism Minor • Public Relations Minor Certificate • Digital Communications Media Certificate • Photocommunications Certificate • Radio-Audio Certificate Computer Engineering Program Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Computer Engineering, B.S. • Computer Engineering, Integrated B.S.-M.S. Master of Science • Computer Engineering, M.S. Computer Science, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Computer Science, B.S. • Computer Science, Cybersecurity Concentration, B.S. Master of Science • Computer Science, M.S. • Software Engineering, M.S. Non-Degree • Computer Science Minor Counseling, Department of Go to information for this department. Master of Science • Counseling, Animo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis, M.S. • Counseling, M.S. Economics, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Economics, B.A. Master of Arts • Economics, M.A. Non-Degree • Economics Minor Educational Leadership, Department of Go to information for this department. Master of Science • Educational Leadership and Administration, M.S. • Higher Education, M.S. Doctor of Education • Educational Leadership, Community College Concentration, Ed.D. • Educational Leadership, P-12 Concentration, Ed.D. Certificate • Community College Studies Certificate • Improvement Science for Education Leaders Electrical Engineering, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Electrical Engineering, B.S. Master of Science • Electrical Engineering, M.S. • Electrical Engineering, Option in Systems Engineering, M.S.* Elementary and Bilingual Education, Department of Go to information for this department. Master of Science • Curriculum and Instruction Concentration, M.S. • Curriculum and Instruction, Early Childhood Education Concentration, M.S. • Curriculum and Instruction, Education for Social Justice Concentration, M.S. • Curriculum and Instruction, Math and Science Concentration, M.S. • Education, Bilingual/Bicultural Education Concentration, M.S.* • Educational Technology, M.S. Non-Degree • The Professional Teacher Preparation Program for the Multiple Subject (Elementary) Credential Program Certificate • Certificate of Educational Technology Integration Engineering Program Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Engineering, B.S. English, Comparative Literature and Linguistics, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Comparative Literature, B.A. • English, B.A. • Linguistics, B.A. Master of Arts • English, M.A. • Linguistics, Analysis of Specific Language Structures Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Anthropological Linguistics Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Applied Linguistics Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Communications and Semantics Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Disorders of Communication Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Language and Mind Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, Language and Society Concentration, M.A. • Linguistics, M.A. Non-Degree • Comparative Literature Minor • Creative Writing Minor • English Minor • Linguistics Minor Certificate • Certificate in Writing and Teaching Environmental Studies Program Go to information for this department. Master of Science • Environmental Studies, M.S. Extension and International Programs Go to information for this department. Finance, Department of Go to information for this department. Non-Degree • Finance Minor Certificate • Professional Certificate in Personal Financial Planning Geography and the Environment, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Geography, B.A. • Geography, Environmental Analysis Concentration, B.A. Master of Arts • Geography, M.A. Non-Degree • Geography Minor Certificate • Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Certificate • Geospatial Technologies Certificate Geological Sciences, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Earth Science, B.A. Bachelor of Science • Geology, B.S. Master of Science • Geology, M.S. Non-Degree • Geology Minor Health Professions Advising Office Go to information for this department. Non-Degree • Pre-Health Professions Minor History, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • History, B.A. Master of Arts • History, Chicana/Chicano Studies Concentration, M.A. • History, M.A. • History, Public History Concentration, M.A. Non-Degree • History Minor Honors and Recognition Go to information for this department. Human Communication Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Communication Studies, B.A. Master of Arts • Communication Studies, M.A. Non-Degree • Communication Studies Minor Human Services, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Human Services, Addiction Studies Concentration, B.S. • Human Services, B.S. • Human Services, Elementary Education Concentration, B.S. • Human Services, Mental Health Concentration, B.S. Non-Degree • Human Services Minor Information Systems and Decision Sciences, Department of Go to information for this department. Master of Science • Information Systems, Business Analytics Concentration, M.S. • Information Systems, Decision Sciences Concentration, M.S. • Information Systems, IS Management Concentration, M.S. • Information Technology, Data Science Concentration, M.S. • Information Technology, IT Management Concentration, M.S. • Information Technology, M.S. Non-Degree • Business Data Analytics Minor Instructional Design and Technology Program Go to information for this department. Master of Science • Instructional Design and Technology, M.S. Certificate • Certificate in Instructional Design Level 1 • Certificate in Instructional Design Level 2 International Business Program Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • International Business, Global Trade Concentration, B.A. • International Business, Intercultural Management Concentration, B.A. Kinesiology, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Kinesiology, B.S. • Kinesiology, Exercise Science Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Gerokinesiology Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Pre-Allied Health Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Recreation and Physical Activity Promotion Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Sport Studies Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Strength and Conditioning Concentration, B.S. • Kinesiology, Teacher Education Concentration, B.S. Master of Science • Athletic Training, M.S. • Kinesiology, M.S. Non-Degree • Kinesiology Minor • Subject Matter Preparation Program (for Obtaining Single Subject Teaching Credential in Physical Education) Latin American Studies Program Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Latin American Studies, B.A. Non-Degree • Latin American Studies Minor Liberal Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Liberal Studies, B.A. Non-Degree • Food Studies Minor • Foundations of Liberal Studies Minor • Liberal Studies Minor • Science, Culture, and Society Minor Literacy and Reading Education, Department of Go to information for this department. Master of Science • Literacy and Reading Education, M.S. Non-Degree • Literacy Education Minor • Reading and Literacy Added Authorization • Reading and Literacy Leadership Specialist Credential Certificate • Postsecondary Literacy and Learning Certificate Management, Department of Go to information for this department. Non-Degree • Entertainment and Hospitality Management Minor Marketing, Department of Go to information for this department. Non-Degree • Marketing Minor • Sales Minor Mathematics, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Mathematics, Actuarial Science Concentration, B.A. • Mathematics, Applied Mathematics Concentration, B.A. • Mathematics, Probability and Statistics Concentration, B.A. • Mathematics, Pure Mathematics Concentration, B.A. • Mathematics, Teaching Mathematics Concentration, B.A. Master of Arts • Mathematics, Teaching Option, M.A. Master of Science • Computational Applied Mathematics, M.S. • Statistics, M.S. Non-Degree • California Single Subject Credential in Mathematics • Mathematics for Teacher Education Minor • Mathematics Minor Mechanical Engineering, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Master of Science • Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Military Science Program Go to information for this department. Non-Degree • Military Science Minor Modern Languages and Literatures, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • French, B.A. • Japanese, B.A. • Spanish, B.A. Master of Arts • Spanish, Chicana/Chicano Studies Concentration, M.A. • Spanish, M.A. Master of Science • Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, M.S. Non-Degree • Chinese Minor • French Minor • Japanese Minor • Spanish Minor • Vietnamese Minor Certificate • Certificate in Translation: Spanish to English / English to Spanish • Spanish for Hispanic Media Certificate • Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) Certificate • Undergraduate TESOL Professional Certificate Music, School of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Music, Liberal Arts Concentration, B.A. • Music, Music Education Concentration, Choral Emphasis, B.A. • Music, Music Education Concentration, General Music Emphasis, B.A. • Music, Music Education Concentration, Instrumental Emphasis, B.A. • Music, Music History and Theory Concentration, B.A. Bachelor of Music • Music, Accompanying Concentration, B.M. • Music, Composition Concentration, B.M. • Music, Instrumental Concentration, B.M. • Music, Jazz and Commercial Music Concentration, B.M. • Music, Keyboard Concentration, B.M. • Music, Piano Pedagogy Concentration, B.M. • Music, Voice Concentration, B.M. Master of Arts • Music, M.A. • Music, Music Education Concentration. M.A. • Music, Piano Pedagogy Concentration, M.A. Master of Music • Music, M.M. Non-Degree • Music Minor • Music Teaching Credential Certificate • Artist Diploma: Professional Certificate in Music Performance Nursing, School of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Nursing, B.S. Master of Science • Nursing, Nurse Educator Concentration, M.S. • Nursing, Nursing Leadership Concentration, M.S. • Nursing, School Nursing Concentration, M.S. • Nursing, Women’s Health Care Concentration, Nurse-Midwife/Women’s Health Nurse Practitioner Emphasis, M.S. • Nursing, Women’s Health Care Concentration, Women’s Health Care Nurse Practitioner Emphasis, M.S. Doctor of Nursing Practice • Nursing, Doctor of Nursing Practice, DNP • Nursing, Doctor of Nursing Practice, Nurse Anesthesia Concentration, DNP Non-Degree • School Nurse Services (SNS) Credential Philosophy, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Philosophy, B.A. • Philosophy, Social, Moral, and Legal Philosophy for the Professions Concentration, B.A. Non-Degree • Philosophy Minor Physics, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Physics, B.S. • Physics, Business Emphasis, B.S. Master of Science • Physics, M.S. Non-Degree • Physics Minor • Teaching Credential Politics, Administration and Justice, Division of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Criminal Justice, B.A. • Political Science, B.A. • Public Administration, B.A. Master of Arts • Political Science, M.A. Master of Public Administration • Public Administration, Human Resources Concentration, M.P.A. • Public Administration, Local Government Management Concentration, M.P.A. • Public Administration, Public Finance Management Concentration, M.P.A. • Public Administration, Public Policy Concentration, M.P.A Non-Degree • Criminal Justice Minor • International Politics Minor • Law, Politics and Society Minor • Political Science Minor • Public Administration Minor • Public Policy Minor Certificate • Security Studies Psychology, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Psychology, B.A. Master of Arts • Psychology, M.A. Master of Science • Psychology, Clinical, M.S. Non-Degree • Psychology Minor Public Health, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Science • Public Health, Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Concentration, B.S. • Public Health, General Studies Concentration, B.S. • Public Health, Global Health Concentration, B.S. • Public Health, Health Education and Promotion Concentration, B.S. • Public Health, Public Health Nutrition Concentration, B.S. Master of Public Health • Public Health, M.P.H. Non-Degree • Public Health Minor Religious Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Religious Studies, B.A. Non-Degree • Christian Studies Minor • Islamic Studies Minor • Jewish Studies Minor • Religious Studies Minor Science Education Program Go to information for this department. Non-Degree • Natural Sciences Minor • Single Subject Teaching Credential Secondary Education, Department of Go to information for this department. Master of Science • Transformative Teaching in Secondary Education, M.S. (online only) Non-Degree • Secondary Education, Intern Program • Secondary Education, Single Subject Credential Program Social Work, Department of Go to information for this department. Master of Social Work • Social Work, Aging Concentration, M.S.W. • Social Work, Child Welfare Concentration, M.S.W. • Social Work, Community Mental Health Concentration, M.S.W. Sociology, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Sociology, B.A. • Sociology, B.A. (online degree completion) • Sociology, Health and Social Welfare Concentration, B.A. • Sociology, Social Inequalities Concentration, B.A. • Sociology, Sociology of Deviance and Crime Concentration, B.A. Master of Arts • Sociology, M.A. Non-Degree • Sociology Minor Special Education, Department of Go to information for this department. Master of Science • Special Education, M.S. Non-Degree • Autism Added Authorization • Early Childhood Special Education Authorization • Early Childhood Special Education Credential • Mild/Moderate and Moderate/Severe Credential • Special Education University Internship Certificate • Resource Specialist Certificate of Competency Theatre and Dance, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Dance, B.A. • Theatre, B.A. • Theatre, Directing Concentration, B.A. • Theatre, Specialized Studies in Theatre Concentration, Design/Technical Production Emphasis, B.A. Bachelor of Fine Arts • Theatre, Acting Concentration, B.F.A. • Theatre, Devised Performance/Physical Theatre Concentration, B.F.A. • Theatre, Musical Theatre Concentration, B.F.A. Master of Fine Arts • Theatre Arts, Design and Technical Production Concentration, M.F.A. • Theatre Arts, Directing Concentration, M.F.A. University Honors Program Go to information for this department. Women and Gender Studies, Department of Go to information for this department. Bachelor of Arts • Women and Gender Studies, B.A. Non-Degree • Queer Studies Minor • Women and Gender Studies Minor Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).