Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home NCSU Home Catalog 2021-2022 Search catalog Catalog Archives | Undergraduate PDF Version | Graduate PDF Version Menu About Us Undergraduate Academic Policies and Procedures Undergraduate Admission Centers and Institutes College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Resources College of Sciences GEP Category Requirements Poole College of Management University College Academic Advising Programs and Services Exploratory Studies Intra-Campus Transfer Department of Health and Exercise Studies Department of Military Science (Army ROTC) Department of Music Department of Naval Science (Naval ROTC) Global Leadership and Team Decision-Making (Minor) Global Perspectives (Certificate) Honors and Scholars Programs Interdisciplinary Entrepreneurship (Certificate) Leadership: Cross Disciplinary Perspectives (Minor) Military Sciences (Air Force ROTC) Teamwork in Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research (Minor) Theatre (Minor) Wilson College of Textiles Graduate Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Catalog Archives Course Descriptions Course Search Print Options Catalog Home› Undergraduate› University College› Academic Advising Programs and Services› Exploratory Studies Exploratory Studies Overview Exploratory Studies is a comprehensive program designed to meet the needs of first-year students who wish to explore their options in order to find a “best fit” major. With a focus on cross-curricular academic advising, career assessment, guided exploration of majors and careers, and programming to allow students opportunities to interact with advisors, faculty, upper-class students and professionals from different fields, our students are able to discover their passions and make an informed decision on a major. Exploratory Studies academic advisors work with their students one-on-one as well as in the Exploratory Studies courses, University Studies Courses (USC) 101, 102, and 201. Our advising and curriculum address campus policies, resources and opportunities, learning from diverse perspectives, as well as working toward meeting personal, academic and career goals. Our Mission To guide students through a structured process for transition to the university and selection of a major. Our program prepares students to gain the foundation for acquiring the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary to become self-reliant and productive citizens of an increasingly diverse community. Highlights Courses for Exploratory Studies students: USC 101 and USC 102, “Intro to University Education I and II,” for first-year students, and USC 201 (Spring Connect), “Exploring Majors, Careers, Identities." Taught by the students’ academic advisor to build strong advising relationships with students. Focus on major and career exploration, transition to college, academic success. Fall linked courses: students in select sections of USC 101 enroll in a linked first-year inquiry seminar 2751 Cates Avenue 2nd Floor Holmes Hall Campus Box 7925 NC State Raleigh, NC 27695-7925 Website: https://advising.dasa.ncsu.edu/welcome-to-exploratory-studies/ Phone: 919.515.8130 Fax: 919.515.8267 Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Campus Map facebook youtube twitter instagram linked in © 2021-2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. Back to top Close this window Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog A PDF of the entire 2021-2022 Undergraduate catalog. 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog A PDF of the entire 2021-2022 Graduate catalog.