Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2022-2023 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advising Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Information Technology Faculty and Administration Emeriti Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2022-2023 University Catalog College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) “We provide a comprehensive educational experience to all students through student-centered, inquiry-based instruction in the classroom and the laboratory. We view research experience for students as an essential and necessary component in the learning of science and mathematics.” Dean Marie Johnson College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Associate Dean Sean Walker Dean’s Office McCarthy Hall 166 657-278-2638 College Website nsm.fullerton.edu The curricula of the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics are designed to prepare students for careers in scientific, mathematical and other technical fields; for further study and specialization in advanced graduate work; and for entry into professional schools of medicine and other health-related disciplines. The faculty of the college is actively involved, not only in instruction and research, but in the advising of students in the college on topics relating to the planning of career and program goals. Cooperative education internship programs are available in each of the College’s Departments. The College sponsors a variety of professional and educational programs at which students and faculty have an opportunity to meet with their counterparts. NATURAL SCIENCE AND MATHEMATICS COURSES Courses are designated as CNSM in the class schedule. CNSM 100 - Introduction to Learning and Thinking in Science and Math (3) CNSM 101 - Think Like Einstein (3) Biological Science, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Biological Science, Cell and Developmental Biology Concentration, B.S. • Biological Science, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Concentration, B.S. • Biological Science, Marine Biology Concentration, B.S. • Biological Science, Molecular Biology and Biotechnology Concentration, B.S. • Biological Science, Plant Biology Concentration, B.S. Master of Science • Biology, M.S. Non-Degree • Biotechnology Minor • Cell and Molecular Biology Minor • Environmental Biology Minor Chemistry and Biochemistry, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Chemistry, B.A. Bachelor of Science • Biochemistry, B.S. • Chemistry, B.S. Master of Arts • Chemistry, M.A. Master of Science • Chemistry, Analytical Concentration, M.S. • Chemistry, Biochemistry Concentration, M.S. • Chemistry, Inorganic Concentration, M.S. • Chemistry, Organic Concentration, M.S. • Chemistry, Physical Concentration, M.S. Non-Degree • Chemistry Minor Geological Sciences, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Earth Science, B.A. Bachelor of Science • Geology, B.S. Master of Science • Geology, M.S. Non-Degree • Geology Minor Mathematics, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Arts • Mathematics, Actuarial Science Concentration, B.A. • Mathematics, Applied Mathematics Concentration, B.A. • Mathematics, Probability and Statistics Concentration, B.A. • Mathematics, Pure Mathematics Concentration, B.A. • Mathematics, Teaching Mathematics Concentration, B.A. Master of Arts • Mathematics, Teaching Option, M.A. Master of Science • Computational Applied Mathematics, M.S. • Statistics, M.S. Non-Degree • California Single Subject Credential in Mathematics • Mathematics for Teacher Education Minor • Mathematics Minor Physics, Department of Go to information for this department. Programs Bachelor of Science • Physics, B.S. • Physics, Business Emphasis, B.S. Master of Science • Physics, M.S. Non-Degree • Physics Minor • Teaching Credential Science Education Program Go to information for this department. Programs Non-Degree • Natural Sciences Minor • Single Subject Teaching Credential Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).