Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Statistics, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Master of Science in Statistics (30 UNITS) The M.S. in Statistics offers a modern and state-of-the-art technology-oriented curriculum that prepares students for any career in government, business or industry that involves applications of statistics. Students who complete the program will also be well placed to continue their studies at the Ph.D. level. Students have the option of attending courses fully online or in-person at the CSUF campus. All courses will be broadcast live via online two-way streams to students attending them remotely. Admission Requirements Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants must hold a bachelor’s degree in mathematics, statistics or related fields at an accredited institution with grade-point average of 3.0 or better in mathematics and statistics courses, and 2.5 grade point average in related sciences. Applicants with a degree in a related discipline must minimally have completed: a two-year calculus sequence; courses in linear algebra (equivalent to MATH 250B ), statistical methods (equivalent to MATH 338 ) and computer programming (equivalent to MATH 320 , CPSC 120 or CPSC 121 ); and one upper-division course in probability theory (equivalent to MATH 335 ). Applicants with grade deficiencies and a bachelor’s degree in mathematics or statistics may be considered for conditionally classified standing if they meet all other departmental requirements. The conditional classification may be removed by completing up to nine units of statistics graduate committee-approved postgraduate courses in mathematics and statistics with grades of “B” (3.0) or better. Classified Standing Students may apply for classified standing when the following requirements have been met: Completed all university and departmental admission requirements, including the University Writing Requirement Developed a study plan approved by the Mathematics Department and Academic Programs A classified graduate student must maintain a 3.0 GPA in all coursework to remain in good standing. Required Core Courses (21 units) MATH 530 - Probability and Statistical Inference (6) MATH 534 - Statistical Computing (3) MATH 535 - Applied Biostatistics (3) MATH 536 - Categorical Data Analysis (3) MATH 537 - Multivariate Analysis (3) MATH 538 - Bayesian Statistics (3) Special Topic (3-6 units) Students will be required to take three to six units of special topic courses, approved by the statistics graduate committee (MATH 531T ), that are most suited to their educational objectives. Culminating Experience (3-6 units) The culminating experience consists of a written technical report that results from a research/consulting project completed in MATH 539 (3 units). This project can be an individual or group project. In the latter case, the contribution of each student to the project shall be specified within the report. Alternatively, with approval of the Graduate Statistics Committee, students may write six units of a master’s thesis (MATH 598) in lieu of the three special topic units. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).