Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Catalyst Center Main Navigation About Members News and Events Welcome to the Catalyst Center! The Catalyst Center for the Advancement of Research in Teaching and Learning Math and Science brings together science and math education experts from the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics and College of Education. Below is information on recent news, featured Catalyst member projects, and upcoming events of interest to Catalyst members and the broader campus community. If you are interested in learning more about Catalyst, please contact us at catalyst@fullerton.edu. RECENT NEWS August 2021: Professor Joel K. Abraham, director of the Catalyst Center, is co-PI on a 1.5 million dollar NSF IUSE proposal to develop new approaches to teaching graph construction skills to introductory biology students. Featured Catalyst FEllow Dr. Julia Chan is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry. Her research foci include the development, implementation, and evaluation of growth mindset and study strategies interventions in gateway chemistry courses and the effect of affective characteristics on achievement in general chemistry classes. Learn More! UPCOMING EVENTS This page uses Ajax which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This site is maintained by Catalyst Center. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jkabraham@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.