Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Journalism and Mass Communication Select a section... Overview Degree Requirements Four Year Plan Undergraduate Minor Concurrent Undergraduate and Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Contact Information Journalism and Mass Communication Program 101 Hamilton Hall greenlee.iastate.edu greenlee@iastate.edu 515-294-4342 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Journalism and Mass Communication Journalism and Mass Communication http://www.greenlee.iastate.edu/ The journalism and mass communication major prepares students for careers that involve all aspects of news and information. Emphasis is placed on generating ideas, organizing, writing, editing, and presenting information for various media platforms and audiences. Students work with advisors to develop a program of study that prepares them for work in communication-specific areas including broadcast media, magazines and/or newspapers, photojournalism, science communication, visual communication, and digital media. Coursework in this major focuses on writing, research, digital and emerging media, and professional abilities. Students are required to complete a capstone internship experience to practice and refine their skills. The Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication prepares students for the field of communication. The school offers three majors: Advertising Bachelor of Arts (ADVRT) Journalism and Mass Communication Bachelor of Science (JL MC) Public Relations Bachelor of Science (P R) In addition, the Greenlee School offers a 4+1 program allowing students to complete their B.A. or B.S. and earn an M.S. in journalism and mass communication in fewer semesters. Professional skills are taught and practiced alongside academic requirements using the latest technology and leading-edge communication trends and methods. Founded in 1905, the unit was one of the first journalism programs to be accredited in 1948 and continues to be one of the longest continuously accredited programs in the country. Accreditation is based on the principle that students need a broad-based, liberal arts education and solid core courses within the discipline. Students taking one major at the school may not seek a second major or minor in the school. All students are required to take a second major or minor outside the school as an area of expertise. Student Learning Outcomes Students who major in programs of the Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication are expected to develop competencies in 12 key areas: understand and apply the principles and laws of freedom of speech and press for the country in which the institution that invites ACEJMC is located, as well as receive instruction in and understand the range of systems of freedom of expression around the world, including the right to dissent, to monitor and criticize power, and to assemble and petition for redress of grievances; demonstrate an understanding of the history and role of professionals and institutions in shaping communications; demonstrate an understanding of gender, race ethnicity, sexual orientation and, as appropriate, other forms of diversity in domestic society in relation to mass communications; demonstrate an understanding of the diversity of peoples and cultures and of the significance and impact of mass communications in a global society; understand concepts and apply theories in the use and presentation of images and information; demonstrate an understanding of professional ethical principles and work ethically in pursuit of truth, accuracy, fairness and diversity; think critically, creatively and independently; conduct research and evaluate information by methods appropriate to the communications professions in which they work; write correctly and clearly in forms and styles appropriate for the communications professions, audiences and purposes they serve; critically evaluate their own work and that of others for accuracy and fairness, clarity, appropriate style and grammatical correctness; apply basic numerical and statistical concepts; apply current tools and technologies appropriate for the communications professions in which they work, and to understand the digital world. The Journalism and Mass Communication Major To receive a bachelor of science degree in journalism and mass communication, a student must earn at least 120 credits. A minimum of 72 credits must come from courses other than ADVRT, JL MC or P R. At least 50 of these credits must come from the liberal arts and sciences. Overall, at least 45 credits must be from 300-level or above. The degree requirements allow for a minimum of 34 credits and a maximum of 48 credits to be taken in ADVRT, JL MC and P R. These include: JL MC 110 Orientation to Journalism and Communication 1 JL MC 240 Principles of Journalism 3 JL MC 201 Reporting and Writing for the Mass Media (C+ or better) 3 One of the following two courses with C+ or better: JL MC 302 Intermediate Reporting and Writing for the Mass Media 3 or JL MC 303 Reporting and Writing for Broadcast Media 300-level ADVRT, JL MC or P R Electives 9 JL MC 460 Law of Mass Communication 3 JL MC 462 Media Ethics, Freedom, Responsibility 3 400-level ADVRT, JL MC, or P R Electives 6 JL MC 499A Professional Media Internship: Required 3 Total Credits 34 Journalism and mass communication majors are also required to take: STAT 101 Principles of Statistics (or another approved statistics course) 4 These additional requirements apply: University Requirement: Students in all ISU majors must complete a three-credit course in U.S. Diversity, as well as a three-credit course in International Perspectives. The approved course lists are found at the following web addresses:(U.S. Diversity) http://www.registrar.iastate.edu/students/div-ip-guide/usdiversity-courses and (International Perspectives) http://www.registrar.iastate.edu/students/div-ip-guide/IntlPerspectives-current. Students must also demonstrate their communication proficiency by earning a grade of C or better in ENGL 250. College of LAS Requirement: Minimum of 120 credits, including a minimum of 45 credits at the 300-level and above. You must also complete the LAS Foreign Language requirement and any unmet ISU admission requirements. Greenlee majors and minors cannot take ADVRT, JL MC or P R courses pass/not pass. Minor or Second Major: Students are required to fulfill a secondary area of expertise. This requirement can be met by declaring a minor or a second major outside of the Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication. Students taking one major at the school may not seek a second major or a minor in the school. Juniors can apply to a concurrent degree program and earn a B.S. and an M.S. in journalism and mass communication in fewer semesters. Contact the Director of Graduate Education for more information on the Greenlee Schools' 4+1 Program. Journalism and Mass Communication, B.S. Freshman Fall Credits Spring Credits JL MC 110 1 JL MC 201 3 JL MC 240 3 STAT 101 4 ENGL 150 3 Social Science 3 Arts and Humanities 3 Natural Science 3 Natural Science 3 Arts and Humanities 3 LIB 160 1 14 16 Sophomore Fall Credits Spring Credits JL MC 300-level choice 3 JL MC 302 or 303 3 ENGL 250 3 U.S. Diversity 3 Social Science 3 World Language or Elective 4 World Language or Elective 4 Arts and Humanities 3 Natural Science 2 Social Science 3 15 16 Junior Fall Credits Spring Credits Summer Credits JL MC 300-level choice 3 JL MC 300-level Choice 3 JL MC 499A 3 JL MC 400-level choice 3 Minor/Second Major Choice 3 International Perspective 3 Minor/Second Major Choice 300+ Level 3 Minor/Second Major Choice 3 Minor/Second Major Choice 300+ Level 3 Minor/Second Major Choice 3 Arts & Humanities 3 15 15 3 Senior Fall Credits Spring Credits JL MC 460 3 JL MC 462 3 JL MC 400-level Choice 3 Elective or Minor/Second Major Choice 300+ Level 3 ADVRT/JL MC/P R Short Course Intensive Elective 1 Elective or Minor/Second Major Choice 300+ Level 3 Elective or Minor/Second Major Choice 4 Elective or Minor/Second Major Choice 3 Minor/Second Major Choice 300+ Level 3 14 12 Minor in Journalism and Mass Communication Students cannot select more than one minor in the Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication. Minors in the Greenlee School are not available to Greenlee majors. For a minor in journalism and mass communication, students complete 15 credits. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. JL MC 101 Mass Media and Society 3 JL MC 240 Principles of Journalism 3 9 credits from the following: 9 JL MC 242 Visual Principles for Mass Communicators JL MC 307 Digital Video Production JL MC 347 Science Communication JL MC 390 Professional Skills Development JL MC 401 Mass Communication Theory JL MC 406 Media Management JL MC 461 History of American Journalism JL MC 464 Journalism and Literature JL MC 474 Communication Technology and Social Change JL MC 476 World Communication Systems JL MC 477 Diversity in the Media JL MC 497 Special Topics in Communication Total Credits 15 Greenlee majors and minors cannot take ADVRT, JL MC or P R courses pass/not pass. Concurrent Undergraduate and Graduate Programs The Greenlee School offers three concurrent degree programs: B.A. Advertising/M.S. Journalism and Mass Communication B.S. Journalism/M.S. Journalism and Mass Communication B.S. Public Relations/M.S. Journalism and Mass Communication Enrollment in the Greenlee School’s concurrent degree programs enables students to complete coursework for the undergraduate and graduate programs on a five-year accelerated timeline – rather than the typical six-year timeline for the two degrees. Graduates of the concurrent degree program will be prepared to face today’s rapidly changing media environment and contribute to society by becoming a leader within the communication field. Upon completion of the undergraduate program (bachelor’s degree), students can choose between two tracks in the master’s program (master’s degree): one for students who desire specialized study in communication theory and research and one for students who wish to develop or strengthen their professional and strategic communication skills. At the master’s level, the School is well known for developing practitioners and scholars in science communication, political communication, multicultural communication and media industries. The ISU Graduate Handbook outlines policies and requirements for concurrent degree programs. Concurrent degree students must complete all academic requirements and required coursework for both degrees. To be eligible for a concurrent degree program, currently enrolled Greenlee ADVRT, JL MC or P R students must 1) be defined as seniors by their number of cumulative ISU credits (90 credits or more) and 2) have successfully completed JL MC 201 (required of all three undergraduate majors) with a C+ or better. Before beginning graduate coursework, concurrent degree candidates must formally indicate their interest by contacting the Greenlee School’s Director of Graduate Education. Interested students must then apply to the master’s program no later than March 1 of the year prior to taking graduate coursework. Application and admissions requirements for the master’s program are the same for concurrent students as those applying to the master’s program after completing an undergraduate degree. A thesis or creative component is required for all concurrent degree students. To receive a bachelor of science/arts degree from the Greenlee School in advertising, journalism or public relations, a student must earn at least 120 credits and complete all required courses. To receive a master’s of science degree from the Greenlee School in journalism and mass communication, a student must earn at least 32 credits and complete all required courses. Preference for assistantships will be given to students who have completed all of their undergraduate coursework. Student Learning Outcomes To develop an understanding of the central issues and current research important to the field of journalism and communication. To be familiar with the breadth and depth of the journalism and communication profession. To be able to communicate acquired knowledge in the field. To be aware of ethical issues that pertain to the field of journalism and communication. To develop the ability to design and present an independent and meaningful research project. Graduate Programs Master of Science The Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication offers work for a master of science degree in journalism and mass communication. Majors plan a program of study in one of two tracks: I. Academic track -- The School offers advanced academic preparation in communication theory and research, leading to the master of science degree. Graduate work prepares students to use and contribute to research and scholarship in the field of communication. This track requires a thesis based on original research, which must be defended successfully before a committee at the end of the program. Areas of research emphasis include: science and risk communication, media effects, advertising, public relations, political communication, communication technology, law and ethics, international communication, visual communication and emerging media. II. Professional track -- The School offers advanced professional study in journalism and mass communication leading to the master of science degree. Graduate work prepares students for professional careers in a variety of mass communication fields. Students with limited training or experience in journalism and mass communication may include skills courses in their programs, but the credits for those courses may not count toward the graduate degree. This track requires either a creative component which must be defended successfully before a committee at the end of the program. All graduate students must complete 32 credits for graduation, comprised of four core classes, at least two electives outside the Greenlee School, and at least four thesis or creative component credits. The following core courses account for 10 credits of the needed 32 credits. JL MC 501 Theories of Mass Communication 3 JL MC 502 Fundamentals of Communication Research Methods 3 JL MC 592 Introduction to Graduate Study in Journalism and Mass Communication 1 JL MC 598 Seminars in Mass Communication 1-3 Each student selects elective courses based on his/her area of emphasis and career goal, in consultation with the student's major professor and Program of Study Committee. Student Learning Outcomes To develop an understanding of the central issues and current research important to the field of journalism and communication. To be familiar with the breadth and depth of the journalism and communication profession. To be able to communicate acquired knowledge in the field. To be aware of ethical issues that pertain to the field of journalism and communication. To develop the ability to design and present an independent and meaningful research project. Graduate Minor The Greenlee School graduate program offers minor work for students majoring in other departments. The M.S. minor requires: JL MC 501, JL MC 510 and one other course in journalism and mass communication for a total of 9 credits taken within the Greenlee School. Concurrent Programs The Greenlee School's concurrent degree programs enable interested students the opportunity to complete coursework for the undergraduate and graduate programs on a five-year accelerated timeline – rather than the typical six-year timeline for the two degrees. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.