Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search Iowa Lakeside Laboratory Select a section... Overview Financial Aid, Registration Coursework Courses Contact Information Iowa Lakeside Laboratory 1838 Highway 86 lakesidelab.org peter-vanderlinden@uiowa.edu (712) 337-3669 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Interdisciplinary Programs > Undergraduate and Graduate > Iowa Lakeside Laboratory Interinstitutional Program Iowa Lakeside Laboratory is run cooperatively by the Iowa Lakeside Laboratory Consortium whose members include Drake University, Iowa State University, the University of Northern Iowa, and the University of Iowa. Lakeside courses can be taken for credit through all Consortium members. Students should check with their advisors to determine whether Lakeside courses can be used to satisfy major or minor requirements or college or university general education requirements. The Laboratory was established in 1909 for the conservation and study of the rich flora and fauna of northwest Iowa, especially those of the Iowa Great Lakes region with its numerous lakes, wetlands, and prairies. Its campus is located on approximately 140 acres of restored prairie, wetland, and gallery forest along the west shore of West Okoboji Lake. Lakeside’s mission is to provide undergraduate and graduate students an opportunity to get hands-on experience working with a variety of natural and human environments through its field-oriented summer courses and to provide research facilities and support for graduate students and faculty working on research projects in northwestern Iowa. Each summer, Iowa Lakeside Laboratory offers students a unique educational experience: small, full-immersion, field-oriented courses in the natural sciences (archaeology, ecology, environmental science, hydrology, evolution, geology, soils, taxonomy). All courses meet all day from Monday through Friday. The majority of courses run for 4 weeks. Enrollments in most courses are limited to 8 to 10 students. Courses are taught at the undergraduate (sophomore and junior) and the senior/graduate level. Students obtain one credit for each week (40 hours) in class. One and two week courses are also available, including courses designed especially for teachers. Weather permitting, students normally spend at least part of each day doing field work, either as part of their class work or working on individual or group projects. Because some courses are offered intermittently, the current Iowa Lakeside Laboratory summer brochure or the Lakeside Lab Website (www.lakesidelab.org) should be consulted for the list of courses being offered in a given summer session. The Lakeside Lab Website (www.lakesidelab.org) also contains additional information about the Laboratory and about each course being offered. Research projects by undergraduates, graduate students and faculty can be done either on the campus or at many nearby natural areas. Undergraduate and graduate students are strongly encouraged to do independent projects at Lakeside and graduate students are welcome to use it as a base for their thesis and dissertation research. Laboratory space and other facilities are available for long-term or short-term research projects. Teaching and research facilities include eight laboratory buildings, a library, and a lecture hall. Living accommodations include cottages, motel-style units, and a large mess hall. All students are encouraged to stay at Lakeside while they are taking courses to take full advantage of its educational, professional, and social life. Financial Aid Iowa Lakeside Laboratory Scholarships are available to both undergraduates and graduate students. All scholarships cover room and board. Information about how to apply for Iowa Lakeside Laboratory Scholarships is included on the Website (www.lakesidelab.org). Students should also consult the Student Financial Aid Office for other scholarship, work study, and loan programs for which they are eligible. Registration Students can only enroll in Iowa Lakeside Lab courses by submitting an Iowa Lakeside Lab Registration and Scholarship form and Housing form to the Iowa Lakeside Laboratory Administrative Office. These forms are found on the Iowa Lakeside Laboratory Website:(www.lakesidelab.org). Early registration is advisable. Because enrollment in Lakeside courses is limited, students should register before May 1 for the following summer session. Housing is also limited and students must apply for housing or indicate that they plan to live off campus at the time of registration. Iowa Lakeside Laboratory Iowa Lakeside Laboratory is an off-campus teaching and research facility situated on a 140-acre campus on West Okoboji Lake in Northwest Iowa. It is run cooperatively by Iowa State University, the University of Iowa, the University of Northern Iowa, and Drake University. Each summer Iowa State University students can take up to three undergraduate and/or graduate courses in archaeology, biology, ecology, environmental science, and/or geology for credit at Lakeside (see course listings under Iowa Lakeside Laboratory). All Lakeside courses are small, full-immersion, field-oriented courses that run for 1-4 weeks. Lakeside also offers a variety of short courses for teachers and a series of nontechnical short courses on various aspects of the natural history of Iowa. Information about Lakeside courses as well as registration and housing information can be obtained from the Biology Program Office, 103 Bessey Hall or on the Lakeside Web site, https://iowalakesidelab.org/. Expand all courses Courses Courses primarily for undergraduates: IA LL 293: Natural History Workshop Cr. 1-2. SS. Offered as demand warrants. Five-day-long, nontechnical introductions to a specific aspect of the natural history of the Upper Midwest or techniques for studying natural history. IA LL 293G: Prairies Cr. 1-2. SS. Offered as demand warrants. Five-day-long, nontechnical introductions to a specific aspect of the natural history of the Upper Midwest or techniques for studying natural history. IA LL 302: Plant-Animal Interactions Cr. 4. Alt. SS., offered odd-numbered years. Prereq: One course in the biological sciences Introduction to ecology and co-evolution of plants and animals; emphasis on dispersal, pollination, and plant-herbivore interactions; field and laboratory work, reading, discussion. IA LL 303I: Undergraduate Internships (Cross-listed with NREM). Cr. 1-5. Repeatable. SS. Prereq: Permission of instructor and sophomore standing Placement with county conservation boards, camps, parks, etc. for experience as interpreters, rangers, and technicians. IA LL 312I: Ecology (Cross-listed with A ECL, ENSCI). Cr. 4. SS. An introduction to the principles of ecology at the population, community and ecosystem level. Field studies of local lakes, wetlands and prairies are used to examine factors controlling distributions, interactions, and roles of plants and animals in native ecosystems. IA LL 326I: Ornithology (Cross-listed with A ECL). Cr. 2. SS. The biology, ecology, and behavior of birds with emphasis on field studies of local avifauna. Group projects stress techniques of population analysis and methodology for population studies. IA LL 333: Animals and Their Ecosystems (4-0) Cr. 4. Prereq: Introductory biology Vertebrate and invertebrate animals of the Midwest are observed in nature either through passive observational techniques or active trapping exercises. Once identified, animals are placed in their proper taxonomic position (e.e., put onto the "Tree of Life"). They also are put into ecological perspective, including habitat pereferences (i.e., wetland, lake, prairie, forest, river, edge), trophic position, and activity patterns. Conservation status is discussed. IA LL 334J: Topic in Ecology and Sustainability: Environmental Nonfiction Cr. 2. SS. Learn the ways scientists can better communicate discoveries and ideas. Learn the importance of identifying your audience and how you can adapt your writing based upon your understanding of those varying audiences. IA LL 364: Biology of Aquatic Plants Cr. 4. Alt. SS., offered even-numbered years. A field-oriented introduction to the taxonomy and ecology of aquatic plants in lakes, wetlands and rivers. Individual or group projects. IA LL 367: Plant Taxonomy Cr. 4. SS. Principles of classification and evolution of vascular plants; taxonomic tools and collection techniques; use of keys. Field and laboratory studies emphasizing identification of local flowering plants and recognition of major plant families. IA LL 371I: Introduction to Insect Ecology (Cross-listed with ENT). (3-3) Cr. 4. Alt. SS., offered odd-numbered years. Field and laboratory study of insects, their diversity, life history; emphasis on ecology and behavior. IA LL 403: Evolution Cr. 4. SS. Mechanisms and patterns in microevolution and macroevolution. Field exercises will emphasize studies of natural selection, adaptation, genetic variation, and population genetics of local plant and animal populations. IA LL 404I: Behavioral Ecology (Cross-listed with A ECL). Cr. 4. Alt. SS., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: Two semesters of biology Animal coloniality, courtship, territoriality, predator defense, habitat selection, foraging, mating systems, and parental care will be examined in the field in order to evaluate various ecological and evolutionary theories of animal behavior. IA LL 408I: Aquatic Ecology (Dual-listed with IA LL 508I). Cr. 4. SS. Prereq: Courses in ecology, chemistry, and physics Analysis of aquatic ecosystems; emphasis on basic ecological principles; ecological theories tested in the field; identification of common plants and animals. IA LL 412: Restoration Ecology Cr. 2. Ecological principles for restoration of native ecosystems; establishment (site preparation, selection of seed mixes, planting techniques) and management (fire, mowing, weed control) of native vegetation; evaluation of restorations; emphasis on prairie restoration and wetland vegetation. IA LL 415: Freshwater Invertebrates Cr. 4. SS. Prereq: One or more ecology courses Field-oriented introduction to the identification, life-history, and ecology of common, free-living freshwater invertebrates of north-temperate lakes, rivers, and wetlands. Emphasis on the role of invertebrates in aquatic food chains and litter processing. IA LL 417: Ichthyology Cr. 2. SS. Scientific introduction at intermediate level to ecology and evolution of fish. Fish sampling and identification, eletroshocking data collection in multiple habitats, field trips, discussion, and preparation of study skins and dissection. Additional focus on fish identification and fish taxonomy as well as the science of ichthyology from a field perspective including fish behavior and ecology. IA LL 419I: Vertebrate Ecology and Evolution (Cross-listed with A ECL). Cr. 4. SS. Field and laboratory study of representative vertebrates of northwestern Iowa. Observations and experimentation emphasize ecological histories by integrating concepts of functional morphology, behavioral ecology, and evolutionary biology. IA LL 420I: Amphibians and Reptiles (Cross-listed with A ECL). Cr. 2. Alt. SS., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: Two semesters of biology Ecology, behavior, and conservation biology of amphibians and reptiles with emphasis on their anatomy and morphology; temperature and water regulation; locomotion; life history; reproduction; population and community ecology; and conservation. IA LL 422I: Prairie Ecology (Cross-listed with ENSCI). Cr. 4. SS. Prereq: Familiarity with basic principles in biological sciences and ecology Basic patterns and underlying physical and biotic causes of both regional and local distributions of plants and animals of North American prairies; field and laboratory analyses and projects. IA LL 423: Prairie Ecology I Cr. 2. Prereq: Familiarity with basic principles in biological sciences and ecology Basic patterns and underlying physical and biotic causes of both regional and local distributions of plants and animals of North American prairies; field and laboratory analyses and projects. IA LL 424: Prairie Ecology II Cr. 2. SS. Prereq: Familiarity with basic principles in biological sciences and ecology Basic patterns and underlying physical and biotic causes of both regional and local distributions of plants and animals of North American prairies; field and laboratory analyses and projects. IA LL 425I: Aquatic Toxicology and Wetland Dynamics in Freshwater Systems Cr. 2. SS. Prereq: Introductory biology course and general chemistry course Fundamental knowledge and understanding of the scientific concepts related to the physio-chemical and biological environment. Problems and issues (global, national, regional, and local) associated with freshwater systems and how wetland restoration can be used to ameliorate problems. Discussion and application of basic tools used to assess aquatic toxicological problems. IA LL 427I: Field Archaeology (Cross-listed with ANTHR). Cr. 4. SS. Nature of cultural and environmental evidence in archaeology and how they are used to model past human behavior and land use; emphasis on Iowa prehistory; basic reconnaissance surveying and excavation techniques. IA LL 435I: Illustrating Nature I Sketching (Cross-listed with BPM I). Cr. 2. SS. Sketching plants, animals and terrain. Visual communication, development of a personal style, and integration of typographic and visual elements on a page will be emphasized. IA LL 436I: Illustrating Nature II Photography (Cross-listed with BPM I). Cr. 2. SS. Beginning to intermediate technical and compositional aspects of color photography of natural areas and their plants and animals. IA LL 450: Topics in Ecology and Sustainability (Dual-listed with IA LL 550). Cr. 1-4. Prereq: general biology course Scientific introduction to ecology and evolution of important groups of organisms: algae to vertebrates, different ecological phenomena (e.g., fire and climate change), varying landforms, different ecosystems (e.g., prairies and aquatic systems); emphasis on sustainability with introduction to concepts, issues, and practices; ability to communicate environmental information through a variety of means. IA LL 461I: Introduction to GIS (Cross-listed with ENSCI, ENV S, L A). Cr. 4. SS. Descriptive and predictive GIS modeling techniques, spatial statistics, and map algebra. Application of GIS modeling techniques to environmental planning and resource management. IA LL 480I: Ecology and Systematics of Diatoms (Dual-listed with IA LL 580I). Cr. 4. SS. Field and laboratory study of freshwater diatoms; techniques in collection, preparation, and identification of diatom samples; study of environmental factors affecting growth, distribution, taxonomic characters; project design and execution including construction of reference and voucher collections and data organization and analysis. IA LL 482: Ecology and Systematics of Algae Cr. 4. SS. Prereq: Ecology and General Biology classes. Biology, ecology, and taxonomy of cyanobacteria and eukaryotic freshwater algae based on field collected material. Samples collected from lakes, fens, streams, and rivers will be identified mostly to genus level with some common species identifications within each algal group. An ecological perspective is used to explore the diversity of photosynthetic microbes that form the energy base of freshwater ecosystems. Environmental and economic concerns caused by excessive algal growth will also be examined. Field collections will be used to identify the common phyla and genera of algae, to study their life histories, and to examine environmental factors that affect algal growth and distribution. A class project will investigate the algal ecology of Lake West Okoboji. IA LL 483: Cyanobacteria and Green Algae Cr. 2. SS. Ecology, morphological structure, phylogeny, and taxonomy of freshwater algae based on field material collected; emphasis on genus-level identifications, biodiversity, ecology; habitat visits to lakes, fens, streams, rivers; algal ecology. IA LL 484: Plant Ecology Cr. 4. SS. Principles of plant population, community, and ecosystem ecology illustrated through studies of native vegetation in local prairies, wetlands and forests. Group or individual projects. IA LL 490I: Iowa Lakeside Laboratory (Cross-listed with ANTHR, NREM). Cr. 1-6. Repeatable, maximum of 9 credits. Prereq: 8 credits in biology and permission of instructor Research opportunities for undergraduate students in the biological sciences. No more than 9 credits in Biol 490 may be counted toward graduation and of those, only 6 credits may be applied to the major. IA LL 493: Natural History Workshop Cr. 1-2. SS. Offered as demand warrants. Five day-long, non-technical introductions to a specific aspect of the natural history of the Upper Midwest or techniques for studying natural history. IA LL 494: Ecosystems of North America Cr. 2-4. SS. Prereq: A general ecology course and permission of the instructor An extended field trip to study a particular type of ecosystem (prairie, coastal wetland, forest, alpine, coral reefs, etc.) or the ecosystems of a specific region (Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Appalachian Mountains, Deserts of the Southwest, Central America, etc.). Prior to the field trip, there will be an orientation period and after each field trip a review and synthesis period. A field trip fee will be assessed to cover travel expenses. IA LL 495: Introduction to Research and Inquiry Cr. 2. How data transforms to information and ultimately knowledge through scientific investigations; examinations and applications include steps formulating the scientific method using 21st-century data, conditions, and related challenges; deliverables include a thoroughly documented scientific experiment beginning with research questions and hypotheses, recommended methods, and concluding with anticipated results. IA LL 499: Undergraduate Research Cr. 1-4. Repeatable. Prereq: Junior or senior classification and permission of instructor Courses primarily for graduate students, open to qualified undergraduates: IA LL 501: Freshwater Algae Cr. 4. SS. Structure and taxonomy of freshwater algae based on field collected material; emphasis on genus-level identifications, habitats visited include lakes, fens, streams, and rivers; algal ecology. IA LL 503: Graduate Internships Cr. 1-5. SS. Prereq: Permission of instructor and graduate standing Placement with county conservation boards, camps, parks, schools, etc. for experience as interpreters, rangers, technicians, and teachers. IA LL 508I: Aquatic Ecology (Dual-listed with IA LL 408I). (Cross-listed with ENSCI, ENSCI, NREM, NREM). Cr. 4. SS. Prereq: Courses in ecology, chemistry, and physics Analysis of aquatic ecosystems; emphasis on basic ecological principles; ecological theories tested in the field; identification of common plants and animals. IA LL 523I: Fish Ecology (Cross-listed with A ECL). Cr. 2. Alt. SS., offered even-numbered years. Basic principles of fish interaction with the biotic and abiotic environment. Field methods, taxonomy, and biology of fish with emphasis on the fish fauna of northwestern Iowa. IA LL 526I: Advanced Field Ornithology (Cross-listed with A ECL). Cr. 2. SS. Prereq: Concurrent registration in IA LL 326I Field study of birds of the upper Midwest; extended field trip to Minnesota and Wisconsin; individual or group project. IA LL 531I: Conservation Biology (Cross-listed with A ECL, EEOB). Cr. 4. Alt. SS., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: IA LL 312I Population-and community-level examination of factors influencing the viability of plant and animal populations from both demographic and genetic perspectives; assessment of biodiversity; design and management of preserves. IA LL 532: Analysis of Environmental Data (2-0) Cr. 2. SS. Prereq: An undergraduate course in statistics, understanding of basic concepts such as correlation and regression, and familiarity with PC-based software for data analysis Analysis of Environmental Data will provide students with training in the theory and application of a range of statistical techniques useful for the analysis of ecological and paleoecological data. Topics will include data management, exploratory data analysis, regression analysis, direct and indirect ordination methods, classification techniques, transfer functions and the analysis of temporal data. Practical classes will provide hands-on training in the use of statistical and graphical software including R, CANOCO, C2, and TWINSPAN. The course will be directed towards advanced undergraduate, graduate and working professionals in ecology and paleoecology. IA LL 535I: Restoration Ecology (Cross-listed with A ECL, EEOB, ENSCI). Cr. 2. Alt. SS., offered even-numbered years. Prereq: A course in ecology Ecological principles for the restoration of native ecosystems; establishment (site preparation, selection of seed mixes, planting techniques) and management (fire, mowing, weed control) of native vegetation; evaluation of restorations. Emphasis on the restoration of prairie and wetland vegetation. IA LL 550: Topics in Ecology and Sustainability (Dual-listed with IA LL 450). Cr. 1-4. Prereq: general biology course Scientific introduction to ecology and evolution of important groups of organisms: algae to vertebrates, different ecological phenomena (e.g., fire and climate change), varying landforms, different ecosystems (e.g., prairies and aquatic systems); emphasis on sustainability with introduction to concepts, issues, and practices; ability to communicate environmental information through a variety of means. IA LL 562: Glacial Geomorphology Cr. 2. SS. Field-based instruction to glacial environments and processes, including the origin of sediments, landforms, and landscapes produced in glacial and associated environments. Aeolian (wind) processes, river and lacustrine systems, and mechanisms and chronologies of climate change will also be covered. IA LL 564I: Wetland Ecology (Cross-listed with EEOB, ENSCI). Cr. 4. SS. Prereq: IA LL 312I Ecology, classification, creation, restoration, and management of wetlands. Field studies will examine the composition, structure and functions of local natural wetlands and restored prairie pothole wetlands. Individual or group projects. IA LL 573: Techniques for Biology Teaching (Cross-listed with A ECL, EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573A: Techniques for Biology Teaching : Animal Biology (Cross-listed with A ECL, EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573B: Techniques for Biology Teaching: Plant Biology (Cross-listed with EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573C: Techniques for Biology Teaching: Fungi and Lichens (Cross-listed with EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573D: Techniques for Biology Teaching: Aquatic Ecology (Cross-listed with EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573E: Techniques for Biology Teaching: Prairie Ecology (Cross-listed with EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573F: Techniques for Biology Teaching: Wetland Ecology (Cross-listed with EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573G: Techniques for Biology Teaching: Limnology (Cross-listed with A ECL, EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573H: Techniques for Biology Teaching: Animal Behavior (Cross-listed with EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573I: Techniques for Biology Teaching: Insect Ecology (Cross-listed with A ECL, EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573J: Techniques for Biology Teaching: Biology of Invertebrates (Cross-listed with EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573K: Techniques for Biology Teaching: Non-invasive Use of Living Organisms (Cross-listed with EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 573W: Techniques for Biology Teaching: Project WET (Cross-listed with A ECL, EEOB). Cr. 1-2. Repeatable. SS. The development and implementation of laboratory exercises suitable for inclusion in elementary, middle, high school, and community college biology and environmental courses. Exercises will be built around common organisms and ecosystems in Iowa. Field trips. IA LL 575I: Field Mycology (Cross-listed with EEOB). Cr. 4. Alt. SS., offered even-numbered years. Identification and classification of the common fungi; techniques for identification, preservation, and culture practiced with members of the various fungi groups. IA LL 580I: Ecology and Systematics of Diatoms (Dual-listed with IA LL 480I). (Cross-listed with EEOB). Cr. 4. SS. Field and laboratory study of freshwater diatoms; techniques in collection, preparation, and identification of diatom samples; study of environmental factors affecting growth, distribution, taxonomic characters; project design and execution including construction of reference and voucher collections and data organization and analysis. IA LL 590: Graduate Independent Study (Cross-listed with A ECL, ANTHR, EEOB). Cr. 1-4. Repeatable. SS. Prereq: Graduate classification and permission of instructor IA LL 590I: Special Topics: Graduate Independent Study (Cross-listed with A ECL, ANTHR, EEOB). Cr. 1-4. Repeatable. SS. Prereq: Graduate classification and permission of instructor IA LL 593: Natural History Workshop Cr. 1-3. Prereq: Permission of instructor Graduate workshop on some aspect of the natural history of the Upper Midwest or on techniques for studying natural history. Courses for graduate students: IA LL 699I: Research (Cross-listed with A ECL, ANTHR, EEOB, GDCB). Cr. 1-4. Repeatable. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.