Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Iowa State University Courses and Programs (2022-2023 Catalog) Schedule of Classes Transit University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Close Search Box Search Open Search Box Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Download Apply Now » Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors Four Year Plan Choose Your Adventure Graduate Graduate College Programs, Certificates, Minors Veterinary Medicine A-Z Courses Registration and Policies Registration Academics Exchange Programs and Study Abroad Academic Conduct Academic Standing Tuition and Fees Index Schedule of Classes University Homepage Archive Colleges and Schools Faculty List Apply Now » Search your adventure in Military Studies Minor Select a section... Overview Undergraduate Minor Contact Information Air Force Aerospace Studies 131 Armory airforce.iastate.edu AFROTC@iastate.edu 515-294-1716 Naval Science Department 3 Armory navy.iastate.edu isunrotc@iastate.edu 515-294-6050 Catalog Home > Undergraduate Majors, Certificates, Minors, Pre-Professional Study > Liberal Arts and Sciences > Program: Military Studies Interdepartmental Minor The Military Studies program is designed for students interested in learning about military skills and careers. The mission of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) programs is threefold. First, students are developed mentally, morally, and physically in order to make them strong leaders. Second, a desire for development in mind and character is instilled in students so they may assume the highest responsibilities of command, citizenship, and government. Finally, students are imbued with the highest ideals of duty, honor, and loyalty in order to graduate with a basic professional background and motivation toward their careers. The Military Science, Naval Science and Air Force Aerospace departments accomplish this mission through detailed courses of instruction occurring throughout a typical student’s college career. All academic courses offered by these departments focus on the development of professional military skills and their application. Each department offers courses unique to its branch of the military. Students in Army ROTC classes gain an appreciation for ground warfare and doctrine, while students in Naval Science develop an appreciation for naval surface and maritime engineering. The Air Force Aerospace Studies curriculum familiarizes students with Air Force structure and doctrine. On a broader scale, all three departments offer courses promoting leadership and sound management practices that investigate the military’s role in American domestic and foreign policy, and can be employed in any career path. Military Science, Naval Science and Air Force Aerospace courses are offered in the interdepartmental Military Studies program in the following participating departments: Military Science, Naval Science and Air Force Aerospace Studies. Students may contact any one of the three departments for additional information on the minor. Undergraduate Minor Undergraduate study in this program provides the student with an opportunity to develop a minor in Military Studies. The three Iowa State University ROTC programs offer over 64 credits of specialized coursework. The minor in Military Studies is open to any Iowa State University student. Undergraduate students may minor in Military Studies by taking 15 credits of coursework from a combination of any of the three ROTC programs - regardless of whether or not a commission in the Armed Forces is tendered. At least 6 of the 15 credits must be in courses numbered 300 or above. The minor must include at least 9 credits that are not used to meet any other department, college, or university requirement. See the Military Studies Overview tab for links to the three departments. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, all policies, procedures, fees, and charges are subject to change at any time by appropriate action of the faculty, the university administration, or the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Copyright © 2017-2018 Iowa State UniversityIowa State University. All rights reserved.