Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Education, Secondary Education Concentration, M.S. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Master of Science in Education, Secondary Education Concentration This program is designed to help career secondary classroom teachers upgrade their skills, become informed about new ideas in secondary teaching and prepare for curriculum leadership roles in public and private schools. The graduate program builds upon teacher preparation in the Single Subject Credential Program. Whereas coursework in the credential program focuses on knowledge and skills necessary for a beginning secondary teacher, the graduate program will allow students to extend their knowledge and deepen their skills in curriculum design, instructional and assessment strategies, integration of technology and reflection skills. Online Graduate Program Features The graduate programs in Secondary Education are delivered in two formats: 1) an online hybrid format, with 49 percent of courses delivered entirely via web-based instruction, and the other courses delivered partially via web-based instruction; 2) a 100 percent online format. The programs begin with a required one-unit prerequisite course. Options for Culminating Experience The options for candidates’ culminating experiences are the comprehensive examination, action research project, thesis, submission for National Board Certification, development of a comprehensive curriculum project or development of an article for publication. Application Deadlines Deadlines for completing the online application are July 1 for the fall semester and Nov. 15 for the spring semester (http://www.csumentor.edu). Spring starts are not always available and are dependent upon student enrollment. Students should always check the program website for the latest information regarding admissions deadlines. Admission to Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. Graduate Standing - Classified Classified standing is granted after a study plan is developed in consultation with a faculty adviser and approved by the Associate Vice President, Academic Programs (or designee). Students must also meet the following admission requirements: an approved major; grade-point average of 3.0 on previous academic and related work; proof of a current teaching credential; current professional resume; 500-word statement of purpose outlining your interest in the Secondary Education Master’s Program (e.g., any areas of special interest or emphasis you plan to pursue as a graduate student, a brief description of your current teaching position or anything else that would facilitate an informed decision on your application); and two or more letters of recommendation that address your aptitude for graduate study including your teaching skills as well as your academic preparation. Grade-point average deficiencies may be removed by a demonstration of competency in the graduate program. Study Plan (31 UNITS) Prerequisite Course (1 unit) EDSC 501 - Introduction to Graduate Studies (1) Core Courses (15 units) EDSC 504 - Advanced Proficiency in Educational Technologies (3) EDSC 506 - Graduate Studies in Secondary School Writing (3) EDSC 535 - Survey of Educational Research (3) EDSC 536 - Curriculum Theory and Development (3) EDSC 591 - Professional Seminar in Secondary Teaching (3) Concentration Courses (6 units) EDSC 522 - Family, Community, and Professional Partnerships (3) EDSC 524 - Assessing Student Learning (3) Electives (6 units) Chosen in consultation with the Graduate Program Adviser Culminating Experience (3 units) EDSC 594 - Project Seminar (3) or EDSC 595 - Advanced Studies Capstone in Secondary Education (3) or EDSC 598 - Thesis (1-3) Additional Information *Please contact the Secondary Education Department office for current registration information. Total (31 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).