Skip to Content East Carolina University Office of the Registrar | Phone: 252.328.6524 East Carolina University May 31, 2022 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog Select a Catalog 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2014 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2014 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2012-2013 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2012-2013 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home The University Academic Advisement, Progression and Support Services Academic Regulations Admission and Readmission Colleges/Schools and Associated Programs Certificates, Degrees and other Undergraduate Programs NC Community College Transfers Courses Distance Education/ECU Online Expenses and Financial Assistance General Education Program Scholar, International, and Leadership Programs Student Affairs What’s New This Year? Academic Calendars Archived Catalogs Campus Map Faculty Emeriti Graduate Catalog University Policies HELP 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog Student Affairs Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Vision Mission Values East Carolina Creed Student Affairs Dean of Students SA Assessment, Research and Planning Off-Campus Student Services Student Health Services Disability Support Services Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities Student Transitions Center for Counseling and Student Development Career Services Student Engagement Campus Activities and Events Campus Recreation and Wellness Student Involvement and Leadership Intercultural Affairs Student Centers Campus Living Dining Services Pirate Media 1 ECU Transit Office of Parent and Family Programs Student Veteran Services Vision Student Affairs fosters an environment where all students achieve their academic and personal goals. (https://studentaffairs.ecu.edu/vision-mission-and-values/) Mission Student Affairs provides programs and services that optimize student learning and leadership, builds a safe, supportive and welcoming campus community, fosters the emotional growth and personal development of students, and makes a positive contribution to the overall student experience. (https://studentaffairs.ecu.edu/vision-mission-and-values/) Values Student Affairs educators adhere to these core values: Student Centered Integrity Service Excellence Respect Inclusion East Carolina Creed In the pursuit of educational excellence, responsible stewardship, and intellectual freedom, the community of scholars at East Carolina University is committed to learning at the highest level. Founded in the tradition of service and leadership, members of our academic society exemplify high standards of professional and personal conduct at all times. Therefore, we aspire to the following: As an East Carolinian, I will carry out personal and academic integrity. I will respect and appreciate the diversity of our people, ideas, and opinions. I will be thoughtful and responsible in my words and actions. I will engage in purposeful citizenship by serving as a positive role model. By striving to meet these aspirations on and off campus, our individual freedom to learn and a pledge to serve will be preserved. Student Affairs Dean of Students The Dean of Students serves to advance the university’s mission by facilitating students’ knowledge, understanding, and utilization of university systems and resource, working collaboratively to enhance the enrichment of the overall student experience throughout the learning continuum. Work is accomplished through strategic alignment, both internally and in concert with other university departments. Our efforts affirm the value and contributions of each individual and we harbor democracy, civility, trust, and diversity as paramount to our work to effect positive change. The Dean of Students staff serve as a liaison between students, parents, faculty, staff, and administrators to help solve problems, assist with individual or group crisis management, and corresponds to student’s needs by identifying the appropriate resources available. The Dean of Students provides various services, such as assistance with referrals to appropriate resources on campus; crisis intervention; discussion of options and solutions to problems; ECU Cares phone line (252-737-5555) and website ( https://ECUCares.ecu.edu) for explanation of university policies, procedures and regulations; resources for addressing student complaints and inquiries; programming related to the ECU Creed, resiliency and civility; and university excused absences. (https://deanofstudents.ecu.edu/) SA Assessment, Research and Planning SA Assessment, Research and Planning (SAARP) champions a culture of evidence and improvement within the Division of Student Affairs, in support of student learning, development, and success. SAARP provides leadership to increase the institution’s knowledge about students, the educational environment and institutional effectiveness to continuously improve student programs and services, and does so through service in support of outcomes-based assessment, student-focused research, data driven decision-making, strategic planning, program review, and professional education. Off-Campus Student Services Off-Campus Student Services (OCSS) assists students and parents/guardians in their search to find safe and affordable off-campus housing. This is accomplished by encouraging open communication and delivering university programs and services to empower students to become good citizens while keeping them connected to the university. (https://offcampus.ecu.edu/) Student Health Services Student Health Services (SHS) is a primary health care facility with locations on central campus and in the Health Sciences Campus Student Center. SHS is comprised of dedicated professionals providing easily accessible and affordable health care to enrolled students. Our facility specializes in the overall health and well-being of each patient in our campus community by offering a comprehensive list of services. We are a fully accredited medical facility by the Accreditation Association of Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC). The Student Health Services staff provides expert consultation in matters of health and infection control for the university community. Additionally, SHS offers a broad spectrum of services including: preventative care, treatment of acute and chronic illnesses, treatment for injuries, and care of urgent and non-urgent medical issues. Other services include sports medicine, travel medicine, pharmacy, x-ray services, ultrasound, health and nutrition education, laboratory, and allergy and immunization services. (https://studenthealth.ecu.edu/) Disability Support Services Disability Support Services (DSS) provides individuals with disabilities support services that will enable them to access programs, services, facilities and activities of the university; to enhance awareness among students, staff and faculty; and to provide assistance with academic courses. The primary purpose is to ensure that individuals with academic, physical, medical, or psychological disabilities have equal access to university programs and services. DSS provides or coordinates a range of services and accommodations that meet the individual needs based on the impact of the specific disability. (https://accessibility.ecu.edu/students/) Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities The Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSRR) fosters student growth by promoting students’ awareness and understanding of their rights and responsibilities as community members, addressing student conduct and creating developmental learning opportunities, and engaging students in ethical decision-making. OSRR administers the East Carolina University Student Code of Conduct, which governs students’ on- and off-campus conduct. Office staff is also engaged in campus education on various issues, such as academic integrity, citizenship development, and conflict resolution. OSRR staff is available to advise all campus community members on their rights under the Student Code of Conduct and the ECU conduct process as well as to clarify University policies pertaining to student conduct. (https://osrr.ecu.edu/) Student Transitions The Office of Student Transitions (OST) provides a coordinated, comprehensive approach to enhancing success for all students; provides services that will enhance the academic efficiency, effectiveness, and independence of students; and provides necessary supports for families required for improving student satisfaction, academic success, and student retention. Student Transitions is dedicated to providing a seamless transition from orientation through post-graduation which is accomplished through the following programs: New Student Orientation, Freshman Seminar (COAD 1000), The Pirate Experience (TPE), New Student Welcome and Convocation, Pirate Read, Camp P.I.R.A.T.E.S., Sophomore to Senior Programming, Student Veteran Services, and Transfer Student Services. OST is located in the Mendenhall Building, Suite 210. For more information call (252) 328-4173 or visit our website (https://studenttransitions.ecu.edu/). Center for Counseling and Student Development The Center for Counseling and Student Development (CCSD) provides free, confidential counseling services to currently enrolled ECU students (all services are covered by tuition and fees). The CCSD provides individual and group therapy, workshops, substance use counseling, consultation, psychoeducational outreach programs, and crisis services. CCSD services are designed to enhance personal growth, facilitate skill development, and improve understanding of self and others. Additionally, CCSD houses the Collegiate Recovery Community. (www.ecu.edu/counselingcenter/) Career Services ECU Career Services supports and empowers students in their career development to succeed as professionals in a global community. Each major at ECU has a dedicated career counselor that provides services to students and faculty within these academic areas. Information about Career Services is available at https://career.ecu.edu/ or by calling 252-328-6050. Drop-in hours are available while classes are in session Monday - Friday at the main office located on 701 East 5th Street from 11:00 am to 3:00 pm. The following is a list of services and programs Career Services utilizes to assist students: Career Counseling Career Guidance Graduate School Preparation Interview Preparation and Practice Job and Internship Search Job Offer Evaluation/Negotiation Career assessment debriefing Personal Statements and Graduate School Essays CO-OP Education Internship and Employment Posting in Handshake Career Fairs Etiquette Dinners Employer Information Sessions On Campus Interviews Online Services and Technology Handshake - Thousands of job and internship listings Focus 2 - In-depth career planning and exploration tool Virtual Job Shadow - Interactive career exploration videos Interview Stream - Practice interviewing technology Career Shift - National job, co-op, and internship postings and contacts Goin Global - International job postings and job search strategies abroad Resume Samples - Hundreds of samples for each academic discipline Virtual Resume Review – Receive online feedback on resumes Student Engagement The Student Engagement department focuses on advising and supporting all 500+ registered student organizations along with all fraternities and sororities, as well as managing the Engage platform (https://engage.ecu.edu). Student Engagement features two programmatic areas: Fraternity and Sorority Life and the Student Organization Center. The Greek Community at ECU is composed of 39 national and international Greek letter fraternities and sororities with over 2,500 students. Each fraternity or sorority is a member of one of four student-led governing councils. The Interfraternity Council (IFC), the Multicultural Greek Council (MGC), the National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC), and the Panhellenic Association (PA) were established to promote community service, leadership, academic excellence, campus involvement, diversity, and sisterhood and brotherhood. (https://studentengagement.ecu.edu) Campus Activities and Events The Campus Activities and Events office, housed within the Department of Student Centers, will focus on programming and major events within the Main Campus Student Center, Health Sciences Student Center, and across campus. This will include advisement and leadership of the Student Activities Board (SAB), Homecoming, Graduate and Professional Engagement, and SGA as well as supervision of the Student Center Art Galleries and Game Room. Campus Recreation and Wellness Campus Recreation and Wellness (CRW) engages the Pirate community in diverse recreational and wellness experiences by providing exceptional facilities, programs, and services to thousands of participants every day. The department employs over 400 students annually serving Pirate Nation at four state-of-the-art facilities. The Intramural Sports program offers over 30 different team and individual/dual activities in several skill levels. For those seeking a more intensive experience, 32 Club Sports are available with plenty of activities for everyone. Take the fun outdoors with the Adventure Program. This program choose offers a selection of trips, educational workshops, a 27-foot climbing wall, and equipment rental. Leadership and Team Training builds and strengthens community by serving numerous groups annually through customized group initiative games, challenge course experiences, and other team building activities. The Well-Being areas provide a menu of options to meet people where they are and to help them thrive! Group Fitness is perfect for Pirates who want the freedom of a drop-in movement opportunity, such as joining a BODYPUMP™, Barre, Zumba®, Yoga class, and more! Small Group Training is perfect for those wanting to up their fitness game in a more team-like atmosphere. Personal Training is available for those who want one-on-one customized fitness programs delivered in-person or online. Well-Being is far more than movement, however. Resources and programs such as well-being coaching, relaxation stations featuring massage chairs, and health and well-being assessments are offered to support life-long habits within the five elements of well-being (career, social, financial, physical, and community). Discover, explore, and live programs are even offered on-demand! Well-being wherever you are, whenever. (https://crw.ecu.edu) The Eakin Student Recreation Center is convenient, accessible, and filled with activities to keep the mind, body, and spirit in shipshape condition. Special features include a climbing wall; an indoor pool and outdoor pool with a lounging area; a 10,300 square-foot fitness area with free weights, selectorized equipment and cardiovascular machines; an indoor running track; five exercise studios (including a dedicated spinning and mind/body space), the Adventure Center, basketball, volleyball and racquetball courts. Outdoor adventure trips, group fitness classes, yoga, martial arts, and a variety of intramural and club sports are among the many opportunities students can find at Campus Recreation and Wellness. Campus Recreation and Wellness at the Health Sciences Campus is located in the Health Sciences Campus Student Center and is a 28,000 square foot facility with two multipurpose courts, an exercise studio which includes virtual and live cycling classes, cross-training room, and cardiovascular and free weight areas. A wellness center, also located in the student center, offers massage chairs, a coffee and relaxation area, and other stress reduction activities. Blount Recreational Sports Complex includes 10 flag football and soccer fields and four softball fields, in addition to restrooms and parking. The Blount complex is also a host site to part of the City of Greenville’s beautiful Greenway trail, 3.1 miles of natural trail for biking, running and walking. The Blount Recreational Sports Complex is on the ECU transit route and has free parking after 5:00 pm. North Recreational Complex has eight multi-sport fields, a six-acre lake, a field house, jogging trails, a beach area with sand volleyball courts, a boathouse, horseshoe pits, outdoor fitness equipment, an Odyssey Challenge Course, and an 19-hole disc golf course, and a low-ropes team challenge course. The North Recreational Complex is on the ECU transit route and also has free parking. Student Involvement and Leadership The mission of Student Involvement and Leadership (SIL) centers on building innovative and inclusive communities. Our departments develop programs and services that engage the ECU community and develop passionate leaders, while supporting the university’s commitments of student success, public service, and regional transformation. The unit is composed of four departments: Student Engagement, Campus Recreation and Wellness, Student Centers, and Intercultural Affairs. (https://sil.ecu.edu) Intercultural Affairs Intercultural Affairs cultivates a transformative and culturally competent community centered on intercultural learning. Through collaboration with stakeholders, Intercultural Affairs develops programs and services that facilitate cross-cultural dialogue, promotes cultural competency development, and engages the community in reflective experiences which encourage self-exploration and challenges bias of race, ethnicity, gender, gender identity, religion, sexual orientation, disability, social class, or other distinctions. Intercultural Affairs includes four centers: the Center for Leadership and Civic Engagement, Ledonia Wright Cultural Center, Women and Gender Office, and Dr. Jesse R. Peel LGBTQ Center. (https://interculturalaffairs.ecu.edu/) Student Centers Student Centers is the home to two new facilities that serve Pirate Nation on both the Main Campus as well as the Health Sciences Campus. Existing as ECU’s “living room,” both facilities empower the campus community around our motto Servire and serve as the hub for cultural, educational, social, and community activities. The centers exemplify the university’s mission as the leadership university, committed to student success, public service, and regional transformation. (http://studentcenters.ecu.edu) Main Campus Student Center is a 220,000 square foot facility serving as the front door to ECU’s campus. The building includes a 700-space parking deck for easy access for the ECU and Greenville community and guests. Many student focused departments and services are housed in the Main Campus Student Center including, Student Government Association (SGA), Student Activities Board (SAB), Central Reservations Office, and University Ticket Office. Dowdy Student Stores, as well as a 220 seat Black Box Theater, a 14,000 square foot ballroom, six dining options, 11 different meeting rooms, and Pirate Vision - a 24’ x 42’ outdoor digital screen. (https://studentcenters.ecu.edu/main-campus-student-center) Health Sciences Campus Student Center is an 85,000 square foot facility that is the first standalone student center on a medical campus in North Carolina. This multi-purpose facility houses a number of student services such as Traffic and Parking, One Card, Student Health Services, Center for Counseling and Student Development, Student Activities and Organizations, and Career Services. Pirate Nation has access to a state-of-the-art 2,000 square foot event room, multiple lounges, eight study rooms, and a state-of –the-art 25,000 square foot recreation and wellness center. There is also a number of dining options, including a Starbucks, as well as the Health Sciences Campus Bookstore. (https://studentcenters.ecu.edu/health-sciences-campus-student-center) The Central Reservations Office is housed in the Department of Student Centers and plays an important role in scheduling not only both student centers, but also many of the indoor and outdoor spaces across the two campuses for students, departments, and guests. (https://cro.ecu.edu) Central Ticket Office is housed in the Department of Student Centers and is your one-stop shop for ticketed performing arts, speakers, and other non-athletic events on the East Carolina University. (https://tickets.ecu.edu) Financial Wellness Hub is housed within the Department of Student Centers and provides financial education, coaching, and resources that empower our students to make better decisions, foster better relationships, and to build better communities. The Financial Wellness Hub offers one-on-one financial coaching, group presentations, and programs covering a wide range of topics including budgeting, managing credit, student loan repayment, and saving/investing. (https://sil.ecu.edu/fwh) Campus Activities and Events Office is housed within the Department of Student Centers and focuses on programming and major events within the Main Campus Student Center, Health Sciences Student Center, and across campus. This includes advisement and leadership of the Student Activities Board (SAB), Homecoming, and Graduate and Professional Engagement, as well as supervision of the Student Center Art Galleries and Game Room. (https://campusactivities.ecu.edu) Student Government Association (SGA) exists to serve the students of East Carolina University, and advocates for the students so that they may be heard collectively. This organization encourages cooperation to create positive change within the university and its constituents, while upholding the values and mission of East Carolina University. A focus of the Student Government Association is to create student-university engagement and opportunities in an environment in which students have the right to self-expression regardless of identity or affiliation. (https://sga.ecu.edu) Campus Living Campus Living actively contributes to the mission of the university by providing housing services and programmatic offerings to serve the needs of the undergraduate students at East Carolina University. Campus Living seeks to enrich the lives of our students by providing them a clean, safe and secure educational living environment where all residential students can reach their full academic and personal potential. (https://campusliving.ecu.edu/) Dining Services Dining Services provides a comprehensive dining program with high quality and affordable food service; encourages and promotes campus residential life and educational experience; projects a positive campus image and the University’s sense of community to all visitors, faculty, staff and students. Dining Services also provides nutritional education and provides a safe and comfortable dining experience, which operates efficiently and with fiscal integrity while also contributing to the economic impact of our region. (https://dining.ecu.edu) Pirate Media 1 Pirate Media 1, ECU’s Student Media organization, engages students in real-life, hands-on practical training in a learning laboratory while providing news, information, entertainment and literary expression to the campus community. Located on campus in the Mendenhall Building, it’s student-led divisions – newspaper, magazines, radio, design and photography, and advertising and marketing – prepare students to compete and succeed in the global economy. Pirate Media 1 provides students with experience in reporting, writing, editing, graphic design, production, management, photography, videography, radio programming, sales, marketing, social media and web production. Pirate Media 1 also prepares students for any career choice through the development of skills in areas such as communication, teamwork, time management, problem-solving and conflict resolution. To learn more, call 252-328-9238 or visit https://studentmedia.ecu.edu. ECU Transit ECU Transit offers a wide variety of travel options on a comprehensive system which provides more than 3 million rides each year with service both on and off campus. Throughout the academic year and both summer sessions, buses operate on several fixed routes which circulate around main campus and connect to outlying areas, such as the Health Sciences Campus and commuter park-and-ride lots. Service is also provided to off-campus housing and several shopping centers. Additionally, a point-to-point on-demand van service, SafeRide, works in conjunction with the bus system to help ensure safe connections to evening routes, as well as safe travel around campus and adjacent areas at night after most regular daytime service has ended. Riders with permanent or temporary mobility impairments may choose Pirate Access for pre-arranged trips to and from university properties. Schedules, maps and other information on these services can be found at the ECU Transit website. (https://transit.ecu.edu) Office of Parent and Family Programs ECU’s Office of Parent and Family Programs is the office that supports you, as parents and family members, of an East Carolina University student. Parents and families play an important role at ECU and we believe that the more you know about the university, the more you can contribute to your student’s success here, and we want to be your partner in your child’s education. We provide personalized help to find solutions to problems, and help you navigate through your family’s college experience. Our office staff are here to assist you with finding answers to your questions. For more information, you can visit our website http://parents.ecu.edu, call the Parents Help Line at 252-328-6847, or email us at parents@ecu.edu. We will answer your questions or put you in touch with someone who can. Join the Parent and Family Portal at https://ecu.campusesp.com for your opportunity to receive newsletters and important information. Engage with our social media accounts @ECUParents (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter) to keep connected no matter your location. Student Veteran Services Student Veteran Services strives to provide a seamless transition for student veterans both academically and socially by assisting them in becoming fully integrated into the East Carolina University community by educating, preparing, and engaging the military-affiliated community. Student Veteran Services provides supportive services necessary to ensure that student veterans are successful in their academic pursuits, adjust to the campus environment, and eventually transition to civilian employment. Programming and services include a mandatory summer orientation for incoming student veterans, priority registration, VA work study opportunities, COAD 1000, SALUTE National Honor Society, VAST mentoring program, Truist Veterans Leadership Academy, Female Veteran Programming, Graduate Recognition Ceremony, and a Department of Veteran Affairs VetSuccess on-campus counselor. In addition, there is a lounge for student veterans featuring a study space, lockers, and a textbook lending library. ECU also offers a student organization for veterans called the Pirate Veteran Organization, which is a chapter of the National Student Veteran Association. The office is located in the student lounge on the 2nd floor of the Mendenhall Building (Main Campus) Room 254 and is open from 8am-5pm on Monday-Friday. To learn more, call 252-737-6542, or visit https://studentveterans.ecu.edu. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 East Carolina University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).