Skip to Content California State University, Fullerton Course Descriptions Degree Programs General Education Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions This site is maintained by Academic Programs. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact catalog@fullerton.edu. Privacy Policy. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. Additional Resources Saftey & Security Emergency Information University Police Annual Security Report (Clery) CSUF Information Contacts & Addresses Campus A-Z Index Campus Map CSU - Office of the Chancellor Accessibility & Equity Title IX Web Accessibilty - ATI Report an ATI Issue Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers California State University Fullerton May 30, 2022 2018-2019 University Catalog Select a Catalog 2022-2023 University Catalog 2021-2022 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2013-2015 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Faculty Handbook 2018-2019 Faculty Handbook [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Colleges/Departments Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home President’s Message Academic Calendar The California State University About the University Administration College of the Arts College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Mihaylo College of Business and Economics Degree Programs Course Descriptions University Requirements and Regulations Graduate Regulations Admissions Academic Advisement Registration Academic Departments and Programs Special Academic Programs Academic Affairs Support Student Affairs Support Emeriti Faculty and Administration Archived Catalogs My Portfolio HELP 2018-2019 University Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] History, M.A. Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) (30 UNITS) The Master of Arts degree in history is designed to provide a course of study for those whose interests are in teaching, business, government service and the professions, as well as for personal enrichment. It offers all the basic requirements for those who intend to pursue a doctoral degree upon the completion of their study at California State University, Fullerton. Prerequisites Students must meet the CSU requirements for admission to a master’s degree program. Please consult the Graduate Admissions section in this catalog for complete information. In addition, applicants must have, a grade-point average of at least 3.0 in the last 60 semester units and a 3.0 grade-point average in upper-division history courses. Only those who have at least a 3.5 GPA in upper-division history courses may request an exemption. After fulfilling the university requirements, the applicant’s records are sent to the History Department’s graduate coordinator for additional evaluation. Students with deficiencies will be considered for admission only after they have completed courses approved by the coordinator. Study Plan Each student drafts his or her study plan with the graduate coordinator and an adviser in the area of specialization during the first semester of study. A study plan must be filed before completing 13 units toward the degree. Two plans are offered for completion of the master’s program. Plan I Student develops one specific field of interest and writes a thesis or project (with an oral examination taken before the final draft). Required History Courses (9 units) HIST 501 - Theory and History (3) HIST 521T - Directed Readings Seminar in Fields of European History (3) or HIST 541T - Directed Readings Seminar in Fields of Non-Western History (3) or HIST 551T - Directed Readings Seminar in World and Comparative History (3) or HIST 571T - Directed Readings Seminar in Fields of American History (3) HIST 522 - Seminar in European History (3) or HIST 552T - Seminar in World and Comparative History (3) or HIST 572 - Seminar in American History (3) Electives (15 units) May be taken in 400-level or graduate courses related to the study plan, at least one of which must be taken in history and one of which must be a 500-level course. Culminating Experience (6 units) HIST 598 - Thesis (3-6) Plan II Student develops specializations and takes comprehensive examinations in two of the following fields: 1) American; 2) European; 3) Latin American, Asian, African or Middle Eastern; or 4) World History. Required History Courses (9 units) HIST 501 - Theory and History (3) HIST 521T - Directed Readings Seminar in Fields of European History (3) or HIST 541T - Directed Readings Seminar in Fields of Non-Western History (3) or HIST 551T - Directed Readings Seminar in World and Comparative History (3) or HIST 571T - Directed Readings Seminar in Fields of American History (3) HIST 522 - Seminar in European History (3) or HIST 552T - Seminar in World and Comparative History (3) or HIST 572 - Seminar in American History (3) Electives (21 units) Nine additional units of 500-level coursework must be taken. The remaining 12 units may be taken in 400-level or graduate courses related to the study plan, at least one of which must be taken in history. Culminating Experience Required and elective courses should prepare students for comprehensive exams in two fields. Cultural Skills Requirement In addition to the 30 units of coursework required of all students, before advancing to candidacy a cultural skills requirement must be met. In consultation with the student’s graduate adviser, this may be fulfilled in a variety of ways: 1) an examination on reading ability in a foreign language or a minimum of two courses of appropriate foreign language coursework over and above the required 30 units; 2) completion of six units of comparative studies in other departments appropriate to the student’s program over and above the required 30 units; 3) an examination of courses taken in statistics; 4) completion of a Humanities and Social Sciences Study Abroad Program or other overseas program with a similar academic focus; 5) completion of a CSUF Washington, D.C. internship; or 6) students in Plan I and Plan II may also fulfill the cultural skills requirement by taking six units of specialized coursework in public history over and above the required 30 units. For further information call the Department of History. Total (30 units) Back to Top | Print Degree Planner (opens a new window) | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 California State University Fullerton. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).