Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events About Admission Undergraduate Continuing Education Graduate Programs Academics Catholic & Dominican Diversity Student Life Athletics Close menu Catholic & Dominican Thomas said to him, “Lord, . . . how can we know the way?” Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life.” Our mission is our motto: Veritas. You can see it on our official insignia and on the torch images and statues around campus. We seek to propose and to study truth in our 21st-century world. And in pursuing truth, we are confident that we will encounter it here at Providence College: the truth of the world, the truth of ourselves, and the truth about God in Jesus Christ, who is truth incarnate. In the Catholic and Dominican tradition, truth is not just a collection of unrelated propositions or disembodied ideas. It is an integrated way of life. We seek understanding not only for its own sake, but because we believe that the truth informs us about our place in the world and orients us towards that good life which all men and women desire. Catholic & Dominican Identity What does it mean to be Catholic? What does it mean to be Dominican? What does it mean to be a Catholic and Dominican college? St. Dominic and the Dominican Tradition The Catholic and Dominican Identity Mission & Ministry Office of Mission & Ministry Strategic Plan 2011-2016: The Conversation Continues Mission Enhancement Through Religious Art Fr. Philip A. Smith, O.P, Fellowship Program Catholic & Dominican Studies Center for Catholic and Dominican Studies CCDS Events Quinn Family Lectures Facilities and Resources Reservations Office of the Chaplain & Campus Ministry Office of the Chaplain & Campus Ministry Worship, Prayer and Mass Schedule Weddings Chaplaincy to the National Alumni Association Churches and Parishes for Young Alums Chaplains to the National Alumni Association Dominican Friars St. Thomas Aquinas Priory at PC Eastern Dominican Province of St. Joseph Worldwide Order of Preachers St. Dominic sought out the deepest and most contentious intellectual challenges of the day, engaging them with unflinching confidence. We need Dominic’s courage to address the biggest questions of our time, his confidence in the ultimate harmony of faith and reason, and his loving, patient attention to his conversation partners. And we need his hope that in pursuing truth we’ll grow not only in knowledge but also in wisdom, love, and happiness. A Catholic college is a place where faith and reason mutually enrich one another and where the Gospel encounters the many intellectual traditions of our world. It is a living institutional witness to Christ and his message. Indeed, Jesus Christ, Veritas incarnate, names himself as the way, the truth, and the life. 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site