Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Carrie Chapman Catt Center for Women and Politics Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home About Us Mission Statement Catt Center Highlights: Three Decades of Engagement People Carrie Chapman Catt (1859-1947) For Students Legacy of Heroines Internships Global Leadership Study Abroad Voting FAQs for College Students National History Day: Carrie Chapman Catt Research Women in Iowa Politics Database 2020 Candidates for Federal and Statewide Office 2018 Candidates for Federal and Statewide Office 2012-2016 Candidates for Federal and Statewide Office Candidates for Federal and Statewide Office – Historical Summaries Women in Public Office – State Women in Public Office – Historical Summaries Women in Public Office – County Women in Public Office – Municipal Women in Public Office – School Board Women in Public Office – Iowa State University Student Government General Information Gender Balance Project Archives of Women's Political Communication Carrie Chapman Catt Prize How to Apply Past Awards Catt Prize FAQs Additional Research Resources Voting and Civic Engagement Voter Issue Guides and Organizations Centers for Women and Politics National Organizations for Women Organizations for Women and Girls in Iowa Women’s Resources at Iowa State University Women’s History Women’s Suffrage in Iowa Timeline Toward a Universal Suffrage (traveling exhibit) Resources for Women’s Suffrage in Iowa National Suffrage Timelines Resources for Educators Women’s Suffrage Digital Collections Women’s History Carrie Chapman Catt Primary Sources, Biographies and Bibliography Women’s History Historical Landmarks and Sites News Voices Archives Events Mary Louise Smith Chair Women Impacting ISU Calendar Nomination Process Calendar Honorees Calendars (2007-present) Ready To Run Iowa Ready To Run® History Frequently Asked Questions Manatt-Phelps Lecture in Political Science Home Carrie Chapman Catt Center for Women and Politics celebrates 30 years The Catt Center has elevated the voices of women political leaders since 1992. Traveling exhibit available for display in schools, museums, libraries and more 1 2 3 The Carrie Chapman Catt Center for Women and Politics was founded in 1992 at Iowa State University to interest, educate, and engage citizens in the political process. Voices – Latest News Catt Center Highlights: Three Decades of Engagement Since 1992, the Carrie Chapman Catt Center for Women and Politics has elevated the voices of women political leaders through research, teaching, events, internships and civic engagement. Catt Center celebrates our graduating students The Catt Center held its year-end celebration event at Reiman Gardens on April 28 to honor the affiliated students earning their degree from Iowa State University. Martinez discusses leadership at the state level in March 22 virtual presentation On March 22, former New Mexico Governor Susana Martinez gave a virtual presentation as the 34th recipient of the Mary Louise Smith Chair in Women and Politics. Natalia Rios Martinez named 2022 Truman Scholar Natalia Ríos Martínez, a Kedrowski and Fitzgerald Family Legacy of Heroines scholar, was one of 58 undergraduates nationwide to be named a 2022 Truman Scholar. Go Vote 2.0: We Are the (Voting) Champions Innovation Sprint Five political science undergraduates and one graduate student are building on last year's four-week innovation dash on year-long innovation sprint as preparation for the 2022 midterm elections. Nominations for 2023 Women Impacting ISU calendar due Sept. 30 Do you know a woman at Iowa State who positively impacts the university through her actions, involvement and achievements? It's not too early to consider nominating her for the 2023 Women Impacting ISU calendar. And the winner is…. At the March 30 ranked-choice voting simulation, participants heard from expert panelists about different voting models and voted for their favorite Ames restaurant using the ranked-choice voting method. Of note The Carrie Chapman Catt Center for Women and Politics is pleased to recognize the accomplishments and activities of its faculty, staff, students, alumni and supporters. More News Subscribe to Voices Tweets by cattcenter_ISU Plaza of Heroines Archives of Women’s Political Communication Give a Gift College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Carrie Chapman Catt Center for Women and Politics Carrie Chapman Catt Center for Women and Politics 309 Catt Hall 2224 Osborn Drive Iowa State University Ames, Iowa 50011-4009 cattcntr@iastate.edu 515-294-3181 phone 515-294-3741 fax Facebook Twitter youtube LinkedIn Instagram Subscribe to the Voices newsletter. Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...