Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering College of Engineering MENUMENU Research Undergraduate Graduate Faculty News Events About About CBE Welcome from the Chair Administration and Staff Reilly Lectureship Thiele Lectureship Search for: Home Search Menu Search for: Building a better sensor Prof. Nosang Vincent Myung manipulates the size and shape of nanoengineered materials to tune the sensitivity and selectivity of his electronic nose prototype to mimic the capabilities of the human nose. Read More Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering is a force for innovation in health, energy and sustainability. Won’t you join us? Learn more about programs in chemical engineering at Notre Dame. Undergraduate Graduate News All News Jennifer Schaefer awarded Notre Dame’s Burns Award for outstanding mentorship of doctoral students Jennifer Schaefer, associate professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering, is a recipient of the James A. Burns, … Grand Challenges Scholars take on real-world problems in energy, health, and sustainability Five students in the College of Engineering have completed the Notre Dame Grand Challenges Scholars Program (GCSP) — … Victoria Goodrich named 2022 Outstanding Teacher in Notre Dame Engineering Victoria Goodrich, associate teaching professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering, is the recipient of the … Yamil Colón receives NSF CAREER Award to advance understanding of gas adsorption in porous materials Yamil Colón, assistant professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering, has received the National Science … Low-cost, portable device could diagnose heart attacks in minutes Researchers from the University of Notre Dame’s College of Engineering and the University of Florida’s College of … A nose by any other name is a gas sensor There’s nothing like the smell of freshly brewed coffee in the morning. But how does one measure that smell? … Find your area of interest Search our site to find the people and programs that are building a better world. Explore Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Facilities and Resources Our research facilities are part of a vibrant and growing Notre Dame research infrastructure. Research and innovation in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering take place in dozens of labs and core facilities, including those with Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering, Stinson-Remick Hall of Engineeering, Nieuwland Hall of Science, and the Multidisciplinary Research Building. Facilities and Resources for Engineers Undergraduate Program You’ll gain a solid foundation in chemical engineering principles, integrated with modern data science and computational tools and have the flexibility to tailor your education to your interests and academic goals in areas that range from energy to bioengineering. Graduate Programs You’ll have opportunities to conduct high-impact, meaningful research, with mentoring and training focused on developing you as an independent scholar and building your network within the engineering community. Research Our research leverages deep fundamental insights to develop solutions to problems facing humanity in health, energy, and sustainability. Spotlight on Research in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Fighting to Control Diabetes Prof. Matthew Webber is developing new technology that would sense a drop in blood sugar and automatically administer life-saving medication as needed. Learn More Departments Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences Computer Science and Engineering Electrical Engineering College of Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering 250 Nieuwland Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA cbe@nd.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn