Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Engineering » Chemical, Biological, and Environmental Engineering Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Welcome History Visiting Campus Accreditation Chemical Engineering Bioengineering Environmental Engineering News Academics Chemical Engineering Bioengineering Graduate Program Bioengineering Graduate Program Information Environmental Engineering Seminars Research and Innovation Research Facilities Clean Water Initiative Our Impact K-12 Education My CBEE Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Welcome History Visiting Campus Accreditation Chemical Engineering Bioengineering Environmental Engineering News Academics Chemical Engineering Bioengineering Graduate Program Bioengineering Graduate Program Information Environmental Engineering Seminars Research and Innovation Research Facilities Clean Water Initiative Our Impact K-12 Education My CBEE You are here Home » About » Accreditation Undergraduate Programs in Bioengineering BioEngineering Apply Now Degree Requirements College Tours Contact Us About the Undergraduate Program This page contains information for prospective undergraduate students. Prospective graduate students may apply to the Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs in Bioengineering. Our undergraduate programs in bioengineering provide students with the engineering skills and knowledge they need to succeed in advanced studies and careers in biomedical, biotechnology, and bioprocessing fields. You'll take courses and labs in bioengineering topics such as BIOE 457: Bioreactors, BIOE 459: Cell Engineering, and BIOE 462: Bioseparations. All students complete coursework in drug and medical device regulation as well as a capstone design experience. In addition to the engineering curriculum, our program provides a solid background in biology (anatomy and physiology, biochemistry, molecular and cellular biology), chemistry, physics and math. Bioengineering graduates are prepared to contribute to the rapidly growing bioscience-based industries, and are able to formulate and solve problems relevant to the design of devices and systems to improve human health. The Bachelor of Science & Honors Bachelor of Science degree programs in Bioengineering are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org. Program Educational Objectives Alumni of the Bioengineering program will be work-ready engineers, problem solvers, responsible professionals, and interdisciplinary collaborators. Specifically, within a few years after graduation, they will have: Obtained employment in the biotechnology, biomedical, or bioprocessing industries or entered graduate studies in bioengineering, chemical, environmental, or biomedical engineering and/or gained admission to professional schools including health-professional programs and law programs; Created value through solving problems at the interface of engineering and biology, whether in a manufacturing, research, or clinical environment; Pursued professional development in order to fulfill their professional and ethical responsibilities, and they will have recognized and responded to evolving contemporary questions at the interface of biosciences, technology, and society; and Created value through effectively communicating with a diverse set of professionals, and facilitating meaningful collaboration between bioscientists and other engineers. Student Outcomes The graduates of the bioengineering undergraduate program must demonstrate that they have: An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics. An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors. An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences. An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts. An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions. An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies. Additional Opportunities Among the many unique opportunities open to Oregon State bioengineering students is the Multiple Engineering Cooperative Program (MECOP). The program offers students a high quality, paid industrial experience and related academic activities while pursuing a degree at Oregon State. We also encourage students to seek registration as a professional engineer. This process begins by successfully passing the Fundamentals of Engineering Exam (FE exam), which is normally held in April and late October. More Information More information about the program can be found on the School of Chemical, Biological and Environmental Engineering Advising Page. You may also review the Schedule of Classes and the Academic Regulations found in the Oregon State University Catalog. It is intended to aid students in planning and completing programs leading to a degree. The guide provides information regarding the undergraduate curriculum, professional practice, advising, admissions policies. Request General Info Future Students Current Students Careers and Internships Alumni and Friends Faculty and Staff Industry and Partners Contact Info School of Chemical, Biological and Environmental Engineering 116 Johnson Hall 105 SW 26th St. Corvallis, OR 97331 Phone: 541-737-4791 Toll Free: 877-257-5182 Email: cbee@oregonstate.edu Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Linkedin Land Acknowledgement Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer CBEE About Academics Contact Us Faculty and Staff News Research Undergraduates Advising Computing Careers & Internships Major Requirements Graduates Admissions Advising Forms Funding Student Bios K-12 Programs Adventures in Learning KidSpirit Precollege Programs Saturday Academy S.E.S.E.Y.