Home Advanced Management Program Insights Request Info Apply Now Where strategic leadership drives business innovation Advanced Management Program Evolve into the transformative leader your organization needs through the blended format of the Advanced Management Program by Columbia Business School Executive Education. Request Info Learn More “The Advanced Management Program empowered me with the leadership expertise, strategic thinking capabilities, and the confidence to lead the change in my organization for the better.” Badr Al Goblan, Division Head (Country Head), National Commercial Bank “There’s something to be said about the success of lifelong learners.” In any industry, there is no one set of capabilities that guarantee your success. As an executive in your organization, it’s vital that you understand leadership as an evolving practice and have the willingness to adapt along your own leadership journey. The success of your team and organization directly depends upon your ability to learn. If you have the capacity for knowledge and want to adjust to the new demands of your industry as the world changes, you belong at Columbia Business School Executive Education. Our Advanced Management Program is designed for senior leaders who are ready to learn and commit to becoming more strategic. As a participant in our blended Advanced Management Program, you will lean into our international network and industry expertise to become a more empathetic, authentic, and effective leader. I invite you to join our community of agile innovators and entrepreneurs who prioritize learning, and I challenge you to expand your understanding of what it takes to lead through the challenges of tomorrow with the learnings from our Advanced Management Program. Paul Ingram Faculty Director, Advanced Management Program Kravis Professor of Business, Columbia Business School Facts and Figures 96 Percentage of past participants who said Columbia Business School Executive Education is pertinent to succeeding in today’s rapidly changing business climate. 90 Percentage of senior executives who said they immediately applied skills and strategies upon return to their organization. 95 Percentage of senior executives who feel better prepared to solve their business challenges after coming to Columbia Business School Executive Education. About Columbia Business School Centered in New York City, the global hub of business, Columbia Business School offers its diverse and entrepreneurial students daily access to influential industry leaders. Our renowned faculty members are at the forefront of their fields, producing groundbreaking research across disciplines. And our worldwide alumni network continues to grow and impact change. At Columbia Business School today, we're celebrating our place at the very center of it all. Columbia Business School is the only Ivy League institution that delivers a learning experience where academic excellence meets real-time exposure to the pulse of business in New York City. Our executive education programs teach actionable skills that allow you to make an immediate impact on your organization. Learn More Experience Our Advanced Management Program Become a transformational leader at the very center of business through the Advanced Management Program at Columbia Business School Executive Education. Our blended offering allows senior executives to engage with our elite network of professors, faculty, and guest speakers from anywhere in the world. The Advanced Management Program will challenge you to bring productive changes to the people you lead, cultivate your self-awareness, and build a global network that offers personal and professional support for the rest of your career. Learn More Events 14 Jun 2022 Time 12:00 pm EDT Advanced Management Program, Columbia Business School - Program Overview Hosted by Columbia Business School Executive Education Online Register Academics Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Program Policies Recruiters & Partners Support Us Current Students Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 3022 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Contact Learning Solutions Team: advancedmanagementprogram@gsb.columbia.edu Tel. 917-985-8797 Maps and Directions © 2021 Columbia Business School. All right reserved. Privacy Policy Terms of Use