Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home Quick Links About Us Search UC Riverside Campus Business Services Search Home Highlander Service Station Services Campus Copier Program Card Services Notary Services Quick Copy Rates About Us Bookstore Digital Print Printing Exam Printing Quick Copy Large-Format/Posters Order Business Cards Order UCR Letterhead About Us Mail Services Bulk Mail Request Campus Mail About Us Receiving Services Procedures Lab Coat Laundering Ethyl Alcohol Form Gas Cylinder Form IDT Request Form Specialty Gas Form About Us ScotSurplus Services Upcoming Sales Excess Property Pickup Shredding/E-Waste/Recycling Inventory Transfer About Us UCR Home Quick Links About Us Previous Next Breadcrumb Campus Business Services May 09, 2022 Important Announcement: Digital Print Services After exhaustive analysis and review by leadership, Digital Print Services ceased large scale, commercial print production in fiscal year 2020-2021. While the pandemic slowed down this transition, Campus Business Services needs to maintain the delicate balance between providing value-added services... Read More » April 05, 2022 Campus eWaste & Shredding Event Highlanders, responsibly recycle your old eWaste and securely shred your old documents with us on Wednesday, 4/20/22 at ScotSurplus (UCR Corporation Yard, 3401 Watkins Dr.). Event runs from 10:00am to 2:00pm and we will accept personal and departmental items. Read More » March 04, 2022 CBS Spring Textbook Scholarship Turn your love of mentoring into $500 in textbooks at the UCR Bookstore by entering an essay explaining your involvement in teaching, mentoring, coaching, or inspiring the younger generation. Read More » January 26, 2022 New Business Card Portal Campus Business Services (CBS) is pleased to announce our new and improved process for ordering UCR Business Cards! Read More » December 15, 2021 Large Format Sign, Banner & Poster Printing Closed for Winter Quarter Due to staffing shortages and supply chain issues in our current economy, Campus Business Services will be unable to offer large format sign, banner, and poster printing for the winter 2022 quarter. Read More » December 08, 2021 Need a Copier for Your Office? Need a copier for your office? We can take care of that! Digital Print Services currently leases more than 250 copiers to dozens of different UCR departments. Read More » More News Campus Business Services was established in 2016 to provide the UC Riverside campus with the tools and services to get things done: everything from inbound and outbound mailing and shipping, to full-service printing; from issuing campus IDs to purchasing supplies; from marketing and graphic design to managing the campus bookstore. HIGHLANDER SERVICE STATION One-stop-shop for copies, post office, UCR Card, printing, posters, notary and more! Visit COPIER PROGRAM Lease state-of-the art copiers and printers, with a one-hour service guarantee and toner included. Visit CARD SERVICES How to get your UCR ID, and ways to use it, including Bear Bucks, R’Blocks and special discounts. Visit UCR BOOKSTORE Online portal to the campus store, which sells UCR gear, textbooks, supplies and more. Visit DIGITAL PRINT SERVICES Offering a wide range of printing services, including business cards, brochures, posters and flyers. Visit AUXILIARY DESIGN SERVICES Providing a full-range of graphic design and marketing, including printed and promotional items. Visit MAIL SERVICES Two retail locations provide post office and shipping services, plus bulk mail and intra-campus mail. Visit RECEIVING SERVICES Operates the campus loading dock and coordinates incoming and outgoing shipments. Visit SCOTSURPLUS Used furniture, electronics, lab & office supplies, clothing, bikes, etc. Public sales held bimonthly. Visit Administration Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR UCR Campus Business Services (CBS) 3401 Watkins Dr. Riverside, CA 92507 tel: (951) 827-5392 Related Links Auxiliary Services Planning, Budget & Administration Follow US: UCR Campus Business Services on Facebook UCR Campus Business Services on Twitter UCR Campus Business Services on Instagram Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel