Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home Quick Links College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences Search UC Riverside Center for Bibliographical Studies and Research (CBSR) Search Home About CBSR Current Projects CCILA About CCILA/Sobre CCILA Search Scope/Alcance Bibliographies/Bibliografías Contributors/Contribuidores Project History CDNC About CDNC Search Related Documents CNMA About CNMA Search CNP About CNP Search ESTC About ESTC Search Contribute Contact UCR Home Quick Links College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences The Center for Bibliographical Studies and Research (CBSR) is a humanities research center in the College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences. English Short-Title Catalog (1473-1800) The ESTC is a bibliography and union catalog of everything printed in England or the English language before 1801. It is co-managed by the CBSR and the British Library. The public search interface is currently hosted by the British Library. California Newspaper Project The CNP is a catalog of surviving California newspapers and the institutions around the state that have copies. It was assembled over nearly a decade, starting in the early 1990s, by visiting every holding institution in the state we could identify. California Digital Newspaper Collection The CDNC is a freely-accessible online repository of digitized California newspapers. It contains millions of pages and growing and is funded through federal, state and local grants and public-private partnerships. Catálogo Colectivo de Impresos Latinoamericanos CCILA is a bibliography and union catalog of everything printed in Latin America and the Philippines before 1901. Records come from transcribed printed bibliographies and from partnering institutions around the Americas. California Newspaper Microfilm Archive The CNMA is a collection of roughly 100,000 master negative reels of Golden State newspapers. The reels are housed in cold storage for long-term preservation and can only be used to make duplicate positive reels or digital copies of entire reels. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Center for Bibliographical Studies & Research 900 University Ave. INTS 2117B Riverside, California 92521 tel: (951) 827-5841 email: cbsrinfo@ucr.edu Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel