Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Center for Collaborative Arts and Media About Get Involved Resources Calendar Projects News Yale College Arts About Get Involved Resources Computer Lab (Room 110) Leeds Motion Capture Studio Room 101 Media Lab RM 113 Calendar Projects Blended Reality Collaboration: AgRP Improv Turing Opera News Yale College Arts Welcome About CCAM The Center for Collaborative Arts and Media (CCAM) is Yale University’s media laboratory for everyone. At CCAM, we investigate intersections of art, science, and technology through research, programs, and exhibitions. A unit of Yale College Arts, CCAM focuses on guiding students, faculty, and collaborators in expanding and exploring all manner of projects. To stay informed about our activities and ways to get involved, subscribe to our newsletter here. Located at 149 York Street in New Haven, the 5,000 square foot space boasts state-of-the-art facilities, including a motion capture studio, immersive media research, projection mapping system, creative suites, computerized audio and light systems, video studio, equipment lending library, wide-format printers, open workspace labs, and exhibition gallery. CCAM shares the modernist concrete building (once home to the Yale University Press) with the Yale School of Drama. CCAM is currently led with the vision of the artist and architect Dana Karwas. Long attuned to the creation and production of interdisciplinary arts, Karwas sees the center in the spirit of a Kunsthalle: while not a formal institution, there are associated artists, scientists, faculty, symposium, studios, and workshops. Community is an essential component: CCAM experiments with and presents new work in original ways, enhancing these discoveries with discussions, demos, and exhibitions. CCAM creates opportunities and room to play with ideas. There is an open door policy: resources are available to all Yale students, faculty, and staff. The projects brought in can be in development or in progress, or completed and shared. Programming is free and open to the Yale community with select programming open to the public. Beyond the Yale University campus, CCAM also holds special events and partner exhibitions nationally and abroad. To learn more about CCAM, listen to our podcast, The Celestial World of CCAM. Anti-Racism Statement June 18, 2020 Dear CCAM Community, CCAM stands in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement. As an artist-run center within academia, we have the agency to take action to address inequalities across arts and technology fields–an area that is historically both privileged and white. From electronic music to VR production, the resources, networks, and training needed to succeed in these fields have not been inclusive. CCAM is committed to leveraging our resources, access, and collaborative power to lift up the BIPOC communities, to support our students, faculty, and staff in efforts to combat systemic racism, and to commit to being thoughtful listeners to those whose voices have been silenced. Our work to support racial equity and social justice starts with our programming. In the summer of 2020 the CCAM Design Brigade program was launched to solve spatial problems in the era of COVID 19. One student team worked with the City of New Haven to design a COVID 19 memorial, addressing the disproportionate impact of the virus on black and brown communities in New Haven. An outcome of the project, Diary Disks, can be viewed here. The summer 2021 Design Brigade program is partnering with CitySeed to find solutions for making New Haven farmers markets more equitable. At CCAM, we recognize that racism is present on campus, in the arts, in tech, and in society, and we are committed to immediate and sustained anti-racist work. Upcoming Events No events to display. Get Involved Collaborate Temporary Experts Yale Student Immersive Media Club Yale Film Alliance CCAM Guest Artists FilmNet Studio Fellowship Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * First Name Last Name Center for Collaborative Arts and Media 149 York St New Haven, CT 06511 CCAM@yale.edu Quick Links About Get Involved Resources calendar PROJECTS news Yale College Arts