Skip to main content Boston College Carroll School of Management Event Calendar Boston College Carroll School of Management Event Calendar Login Logout About People Contact Us Our Approach Privacy Policy Website FAQ Research & News Resource Library Topics Magazine Reports Briefs 21st Century Corporate Citizenship Executive Education Course Catalog Event Calendar Online Courses Certificate Programs The Summit: A Learning Experience to Kick-start Your CSR Certification Companywide Workshops Webinars & Virtual Events Professional Credits Frequently Asked Questions Membership Become a Member Maximize Your Membership CSR Job Listings Renew Your Membership Member List Member Networks Affinity Groups Inquire About Membership Knowledge Request Frequently Asked Questions Membership Checklist Conference 2022 Speakers Who Should Attend? The Innovation Awards Agenda Frequently Asked Questions 2022 Sponsors Breakout Sessions General Sessions Blog Search this site Clear search field WHAT'S NEW State of Corporate Citizenship The State of Corporate Citizenship is a research project of the Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship that examines how executives view corporate citizenship and their firms' performance in the environmental, social, and governance dimensions of business. Read More The Management Intensive June 6-10, 2022 | Boston, MA Created for managers responsible for executing corporate citizenship, the Corporate Citizenship Management Intensive is a five-day certificate program that will provide you with the strategic, organizational, evaluation, and communication tools and skills needed to advance good corporate citizenship performance throughout your company. Read More WEBINAR | DEI Initiatives: From Inclusion to Belonging JUNE 8 , 2022 | 12 PM EST - How can companies reexamine the structural elements underlying the work experience in order to create workplaces where employees have a genuine sense of belonging? Join leading CSR practitioners for a discussion of inclusion, belonging, and how companies are integrating DEI programs and commitments into DEI reporting. Register Here CSR News, Regulations, Research, Company Examples... It's All Here. Stay informed. Request the updates you want to see in your inbox. Choose the Emails You Want BOSTON COLLEGE CENTER FOR CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP: WHAT WE DO Membership Serving 500+ corporate members per year around the globe, the Center for Corporate Citizenship is one of the largest corporate membership organizations in the United States. Learn About Membership Executive Education Register for a course or earn a certificate to build your skills in corporate citizenship. Courses are taught by business experts and top faculty from the Carroll School of Management at Boston College. Learn About Courses Research From in-depth case studies of leading company CSR efforts to summaries of the latest news and regulations, we offer you the information necessary to help drive progress in your business and communities. Access Research CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP TOPICS Community Involvement Read how corporate community involvement can bring positive, measurable change to your business and the communities you serve. Plus CI resources you can use! Environmental Sustainability Environmental sustainability is increasing attention to global environmental concerns, providing the incentive for businesses to assess their impacts. Value of Corporate Citizenship Corporate citizenship delivers value when companies optimize their core competencies to address opportunities in the ESG aspects of business. Sustainability Reporting Need help with your company's sustainability reporting? Find all the tools and info you need here, including an overview of different frameworks, vendor reports, links to research and regulations, plus courses and training. Membership with the Center Executive education, essential research, and knowledge support when you need it. Member Benefits 2022 CONFERENCE HIGHLIGHTS 2022 Corporate Citizenship Conference Day 3: Choosing a better path forward Ron Brown described Target’s new sustainability strategy, Target Forward, the company’s vision to co-create an equitable and regenerative future together with its guests, partners, and communities. Brown provided a perfect segue for keynote speaker, Ron Garan, NASA astronaut, fighter pilot, and active social entrepreneur. Read More 2022 Corporate Citizenship Conference Day 2 - Afternoon: Better approaches to community partnerships The afternoon began with a second round of breakout sessions, featuring topics ranging from net zero, to intergenerational employee engagement, to DEI. Onsite volunteers packed more than 500 financial education kits for a local school, thanks to Ally’s generous sponsorship of this year’s volunteer project. Read More 2022 Corporate Citizenship Conference Day 2 - Morning: Building bolder communities of caring Melissa MacDonnell, president of Liberty Mutual Foundation and vice president at Liberty Mutual, took the stage to discuss Liberty Torchbearers. MacDonnell introduced a cross-functional team to discuss Liberty Mutual’s innovative program that combines the best aspects of community involvement and employee engagement. Read More The Corporate Citizen: Winter 22 | Issue 39 The Corporate Citizen: Issue 39 BETTER. BOLDER. BRIGHTER. - Corporate citizenship professionals act as both candle and mirror for companies—shedding light on risks AND new ideas for how they might be addressed. From the Corner Office Inclusion as a strategy Major investment, systemic change Redefining disaster relief and response Going global with community involvement Throwing out old ways to manage waste Read More Center Research The latest in corporate citizenship from the Boston College Carroll School of Management. Research & News Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship Carroll School of Management 140 Commonwealth Ave, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 | 617.552.4545 | ccc.bc.edu About / Research & News / Executive Education / Membership / Conference / Blog Facebook page Twitter profile LinkedIn profile Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College