Menu Close Menu Skip to content Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public HealthHarvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health main site homepage Quicklinks About the School Academics Admissions Research Faculty Student Life News Alumni Frontiers Make A Gift Search for: Search Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics Home About Director’s Welcome About the Center People News & Events Events Calendar ID Epi Spring Seminar Series 7th Annual Conference to Increase Diversity in Mathematical Modeling and Public Health Opportunities Contact Publications COVID-19 Support CCDD ID Epi Spring Seminar Series Read More Experts present the latest research in infectious disease epidemiology and modeling. Read More Launch of CDC Center for Forecasting and Outbreak Analytics (CFA) Watch the Recording Marc Lipsitch, as Director for Science for the CFA, spoke at the virtual White House Summit for the launch. Watch the Recording CrisisReady, led by Caroline Buckee, embeds data in local disaster planning Read More CrisisReady is an international collaboration of researchers, technology companies, nonprofits and policy makers Read More Rebecca Kahn Named a 2021 STAT Wunderkind Read More Kahn has been recognized for her work in pandemic preparedness Read More Introduction to Infectious Disease Modeling Watch the Videos Caroline Buckee and Ayesha Mahmud teaching the course Introduction to Infectious Disease Modeling. Watch the Videos COVID-19 Response The Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics (CCDD) has been a key center for research and policy analysis on the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and has been at the forefront of the COVID-19 response. CCDD’s team, comprised of faculty, researchers, postdocs, and graduate students, leverages deep epidemiological experience with innovative modeling techniques and advanced data analysis to respond to the pandemic. See more Upcoming Events Jun 17 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm MIDAS Webinar: CDC’s new Center for Forecasting and Outbreak Analytics (CFA) View Calendar Our Experts CCDD faculty experts have been working tirelessly to address important questions for the scientific community, policy makers, and the public about how to combat this pandemic, and prepare for outbreaks in the future. Marc Lipsitch Director and Professor of Epidemiology Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics, Department of Epidemiology mlipsitc@hsph.harvard.edu Caroline Buckee Associate Director and Professor Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics, Department of Epidemiology cbuckee@hsph.harvard.edu Bill Hanage Associate Professor Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics, Department of Epidemiology whanage@hsph.harvard.edu Yonatan Grad Associate Professor Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases ygrad@hsph.harvard.edu Megan Murray Ronda Stryker and William Johnston Professor of Global Health, Professor of Epidemiology Department of Epidemiology megan.murray.epi@gmail.com Mauricio Santillana Professor Physics and Electrical and Computer Engineering Departments, Northeastern University m.santillana@northeastern.edu Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics on Twitter @CCDD_HSPH @mlipsitch @CDCgov I came across your profile and I must admit you have a good sense of humor. Kindly fo… https://t.co/klpjlaGwox Thank you to all the speakers that presented at the 2022 Spring ID Epi Seminar Series! #IDEpi2022 All recorded tal… https://t.co/EFzeWQWiVp Forecasting the Future of Covid. Feat. @mlipsitch on @NEJM https://t.co/oAFU8SAwne Reminder: starting at 1 PM today! This will be the last webinar of the series. Register for the meeting link! https://t.co/GNmjKRVgWp Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College