Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Center for Communication Excellence, Graduate College Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Graduate College Calendar Contact AcComP Track AcComP Certification Track Onboarding Thesis & Creative Component Progress Roadmap Dissertation Progress Roadmap Writing Writing Consultations Disciplinary Writing Interdisciplinary Writing English Writing Thesis and Dissertation Writing Nationally Competitive Awards Peer Review Join a Group Working Model Hear from Our Members Writing Accountability Group Join a Group Working Model Seminars and Workshops Thesis/Dissertation Individual Consultations Seminars, Boot camps, and Retreats Writing Planning Tools Formatting Tools and Resources Speaking Speaking Consultations Interpersonal Communication Consultations Interpersonal Communication Seminar Series English Speaking Practice English Speaking Consultations Peer Speaking Practice Groups OECT for ITAs Overview of OECT Who Needs to Take OECT? FAQs Test Dates and Registration Test Guide Score Guide Understanding Results OECT Portal for Students and Raters English 180 Information for Departments Courses Writing Courses Speaking Courses Certification Events Scheduled Events Needs-Based Events Calendar of Events Resources Writing Resources English Speaking Resources Recordings of Past Events Online Repository CCE YouTube Channel About Us Programs Success Stories Initiatives and Projects Directory Partners FAQ Register for our Oral Presentation Seminar Series Join a Peer Review Group in Summer 2022 Attend a thesis/dissertation event *NEW* Access LaTeX support for thesis and dissertation formatting Become a certified Communication Consultant Make one-on-one appointments with trained consultants Browse our success stories 1 Center for Communication Excellence 2 Register for our Oral Presentation Seminar Series 3 Join a Peer Review Group in Summer 2022 4 Attend a thesis/dissertation event 5 *NEW* Access LaTeX support for thesis and dissertation formatting 6 Become a certified Communication Consultant 7 Make one-on-one appointments with trained consultants 8 Browse our success stories Welcome to the CCE. Check out our Spring 2022 flyer! Success Stories Natalia V. Rios Martinez Named 2022 Truman Scholar Natalia V. Rios Martinez, a senior in political science, international studies, and public relations, was named a 2022 Truman Scholar. Natalia is the ninth scholar at Iowa State University and the first Hispanic woman to receive the scholarship at the institution. She is currently a research assistant at the Department of Sociology and a government contracting assistant at the Procurement Technical Assistant Center and is interning at the U.S. Department of Justice. Through the application process, Natalia worked closely with Kristin and Agata, Nationally Competitive Awards Writing Consultants in the CCE: "One of the most useful things I gathered from this experience was that Agata took the time to explain the logic and the reasoning behind her suggestions. Kristin provided a new and different perspective, gave clear directions, and always looked out for my best interest. Their expertise helped me become a better writer, which is important to me as a non-native English speaker. Meeting with them made all the difference in my application, and for that, I am eternally grateful." Read More Nethmi Gewage Selected as Goldwater Scholar Nethmi W. Hewage, an ISU junior majoring in chemistry and minoring in mathematics, received the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship. Nethmi conducts research in Dr. Kovnir's lab at ISU and plans to pursue a Ph.D. in chemistry or materials science to become a professor and conduct research to find alternative solutions for the world's energy crisis. In the application process, Nethmi met with Agata, a CCE Nationally Competitive Awards Writing Consultant. Read More Tim Kochem Awarded Doctoral Dissertation Grant Tim Kochem, doctoral candidate in Applied Linguistics and Technology, was awarded a doctoral dissertation grant from The International Research Foundation for English Language Education. Tim received the award for his project "Second Language Teacher Cognition Development in an Online English Pronunciation Pedagogy Course: A Quasi-Experimental Study." To put together his grant proposal, Tim worked with his faculty mentor and major professor, Dr. John Levis, and with CCE Consultant Kristin Terrill. Read More Programs One-on-One Feedback Written and Oral Communication Events Constructive Peer Review English Writing and Speaking Practice English for Classroom Communication Thesis and Dissertation Writing Support National Competitive Awards Application Support Oral English Certfication Test for International TAs Interpersonal Communication Consultation Make an Appointment Writing consultations Speaking consultations Thesis/Dissertation walk-in consultations (New) Request Support Request an event View scheduled events Download the Spring 2022 Seminar Series flyer Download the Spring 2022 semester flyer @IowaStateCCE Tweets by IowaStateCCE Center for Communication Excellence Graduate College 505 Morrill Road 1137 Pearson Hall Ames, IA 50011 Twitter Facebook Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information