Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Center for Communication Excellence, Graduate College Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Graduate College Calendar Contact AcComP Track AcComP Certification Track Onboarding Thesis & Creative Component Progress Roadmap Dissertation Progress Roadmap Writing Writing Consultations Disciplinary Writing Interdisciplinary Writing English Writing Thesis and Dissertation Writing Nationally Competitive Awards Peer Review Join a Group Working Model Hear from Our Members Writing Accountability Group Join a Group Working Model Seminars and Workshops Thesis/Dissertation Individual Consultations Seminars, Boot camps, and Retreats Writing Planning Tools Formatting Tools and Resources Speaking Speaking Consultations Interpersonal Communication Consultations Interpersonal Communication Seminar Series English Speaking Practice English Speaking Consultations Peer Speaking Practice Groups OECT for ITAs Overview of OECT Who Needs to Take OECT? FAQs Test Dates and Registration Test Guide Score Guide Understanding Results OECT Portal for Students and Raters English 180 Information for Departments Courses Writing Courses Speaking Courses Certification Events Scheduled Events Needs-Based Events Calendar of Events Resources Writing Resources English Speaking Resources Recordings of Past Events Online Repository CCE YouTube Channel About Us Programs Success Stories Initiatives and Projects Directory Partners FAQ Oral English Certification Test The purpose of the Oral English Certification Test (OECT) is to assess how effectively international teaching assistants (ITAs) can communicate in English in typical everyday, academic, and classroom situations. OECT results help ISU departments and graduate programs make informed decisions when assigning teaching duties to their ITAs. Overview and Policies FAQs Registration International graduate students with teaching appointments are required to take OECT. Students are strongly advised to complete the registration as early as possible as we may not be able to accommodate late testing requests. The schedule is subject to change. Please keep checking this page for updates. Who Needs to Take the OECT? Test Dates Register Here Test Preparation Learn more about the OECT's test format, question types, topic types, and scoring rubric. The evaluators are professionals in the field of teaching English as a second language, language assessment, or education. At least two evaluators independently rate each section of the test. Check out our sample test guide for helpful tips and test day preparation. Test Guide Score Guide Test Results Access this portal to take the OECT, see your test result(s), or to use the pronunciation lab / laptop resources. A valid ISU ID is required to access the portal for test registration. Departments requiring student results will access their records using this portal as well. Understanding Results Access Results English 180 Our speaking courses equip you with the necessary strategies for effective classroom communication and aim to help you improve pronunciation, fluency, and comprehensibility. Browse our available course sections and register today by completing the enrollment form and emailing Lily Compton at lcompton@iastate.edu Learn More Download Form Center for Communication Excellence Graduate College 505 Morrill Road 1137 Pearson Hall Ames, IA 50011 Twitter Facebook Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information