College of Community Innovation and Education About About UsAdministrationStaff DirectoryLocation & ParkingContact Us Academics Degrees, Minors & CertificatesDepartments & SchoolsUndergraduate AffairsGraduate AffairsStudent ResearchScholarshipsStudy Abroad Faculty & Research Faculty DirectoryFaculty ResearchAwards and HonorsCenters and InstitutesResearch Administration News NewsroomEvents Alumni College of Community Innovation and Education University of Central Florida Jump to page content Coronavirus Updates: UCF is sharing more information and updates here. Learn. Connect. Transform. At the College of Community Innovation and Education, you will gain the knowledge, experience and confidence needed to transform lives and strengthen communities. Through our diverse programs and established partnerships, we are uniquely positioned to develop innovative solutions to complex social issues. You will have opportunities to collaborate with faculty experts across academic areas and engage in community-based experiences throughout Central Florida and beyond. In addition to our location on UCF’s main campus, we also offer programs at UCF Downtown, giving our students access to numerous internships, opportunities and networks within the heart of downtown Orlando. Whether you aspire to work in criminal justice, education, global health management and informatics, legal studies or public administration, our faculty and staff will help you reach your goals. Apply for Scholarships Explore scholarship opportunities specific to your program of study. Apply on the A2O portal by March 6. SEE AVAILABLE SCHOLARSHIPS 390K available in college scholarships +50 college scholarships Meet our Spring 2021 Grads See UCF’s Commencement Schedule View CCIE’s Graduation Ceremony on Youtube on May 8 at 9 a.m. View Doctoral (All Colleges) Graduation Ceremony on Youtube on May 8 at 5 p.m. Heading Content LEARN MORE The college's Department of Health Management and Informatics, Department of Legal Studies and School of Public Administration hold classes at UCF Downtown, providing innovative education for high-demand fields that integrate with industry and place thousands of students within walking distance of jobs and internships. LEARN MORE ABOUT CCIE AT UCF DOWNTOWN Academics Degrees, Minors and Certificates Undergraduate Affairs Graduate Affairs Scholarships Interdisciplinary Research Disability, Aging and Technology Cluster Learning Sciences Cluster Violence Against Women Cluster Schools School of Global Health Management and Informatics School of Public Administration School of Teacher Education Departments Department of Counselor Education & School Psychology Department of Criminal Justice Department of Educational Leadership & Higher Education Department of Learning Sciences & Educational Research Department of Legal Studies Centers and Institutes Center for Community Schools Center for Public and Nonprofit Management Center for Research in Education Simulation Technology Community Counseling and Research Center Florida Center for Students with Unique Abilities Morgridge International Reading Center Program Evaluation and Educational Research Group Toni Jennings Exceptional Education Institute UCF Marriage and Family Research Institute In the News When Hurricanes Strike, Social Media Can Save Lives Public Administration A UCF study finds social media can be a powerful tool for cities to communicate ... New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters Public Administration The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along ... College of Community Innovation and Education Celebrates Inaugural Alumni Celebration Knight College The College of Community Innovation and Education, in partnership with the CCIE Alumni Board, recognized ... Featured Story Dean Named for the College of Community Innovation and Education Grant Hayes, interim provost and senior vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at East Carolina University, starts at UCF Aug. 1 ... READ MORE CHECK OUT MORE STORIES Upcoming Events UP NEXT Jun 1 11:00 am Big Red Bus - Donate Blood Today! Help us maintain a safe and ready blood supply for cancer patients, trauma patients or for when unexpected tragedies occur. The OneBlood bus will park on Memory Mall near the Veterans Memorial. Walk-ups welcomed, appointments appreciated! LOOKING AHEAD Jun 1 2:00 pm Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX Jun 1 4:00 pm UCF Counselor Education Program: Information Session Jun 2 10:00 am Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX SEE ALL EVENTS Get Social Stay connected. Follow the UCF College of Community Innovation and Education on social media for news, updates and more. College of Community Innovation and Education Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter LOCATION PHYSICAL ADDRESS 12494 University Blvd., Orlando, FL 32816 MAILING ADDRESS P.O. Box 161250, Orlando, FL 32816 Phone: 407-823-2835 College of Community Innovation and Education University of Central Florida 12494 University Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816 Contact Info QUICK LINKS Departments & Schools Faculty Directory Staff Directory Undergraduate Affairs Graduate Affairs LET'S GET SOCIAL