Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Support Get Help Incoming Students Username, Password, and CUID Email Setting Up Your Laptop Apple Laptop Setup Windows Laptop Setup Clemson Purchased Windows Setup NOT Clemson Purchased Windows Setup More Info and Contacts Parents’ Information New Faculty & Staff Current Students Computer Labs Lab Ad Request Email and Accounts Get Connected Wireless Ethernet (Wired) Telecommunications IT Training Instructor-led Training Online Virtual Training Custom Training Consulting Laptops Recommended Laptops for 2022-2023 Purchasing Tips & Tricks Clemson Computer Store Setting Up Your Laptop Printing & Plotting PaperCut 101 Locations Request a Refund Safe Computing Software Adobe Creative Cloud AWS Educate Program Grammarly Premium Sales & Purchasing Software Licenses Individual Licenses Web Downloads Student Organizations Kaltura Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Work for CCIT Application Current Faculty & Staff Audio-visual Technology Blended Learning Enabled Classrooms Classroom Technology Guides Classroom Technology Checklist Business Systems (CUBS) PeopleSoft Financials PeopleSoft HCM Email & Accounts LISTSERV: Barebones Guide for List Owners Email Lists Get Connected Wireless Hardware & Laptops Hardware and Software Roadmap IT Training Instructor-led Training Online Virtual Training Custom Training Consulting Printing & Plotting Request Resources Safe Computing Software Adobe Creative Cloud AWS Educate Program Grammarly Premium Sales & Purchasing Requesting a Quote Software Licenses Individual Licenses Web Downloads Which Software Versions? Kronos Configuration iRoar Configuration Work At Home Software Tech Support Program Administrative Support Advancement Agriculture, Forestry, and Life Sciences Architecture, Arts, and Humanities Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Athletics Business Cooperative Extension Services (CES) Education Engineering Computing and Applied Sciences Libraries Media and Pub. Affairs Medicaid Information Technology Sevices Public Services and Agriculture (PSAG) Science Service Desk Student Affairs Greenville One University Facilities Kaltura Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Teaching Tools Retirees and Emeritus Software Licenses Alumni Knowledge Base Knowledge Base Login Home Support Current Students Laptops Laptops **NOTE** The new 2022-2023 laptop recommendations have been announced. Please contact the CCIT computer store or call the vendors at the phone number listed on their websites to get this year’s laptop models. Software will not be pre-installed on laptops for Fall 2022*** Welcome to Clemson University laptop support. We are located in the CCIT Support Center on the 2nd floor of the Cooper Library. Laptop support is responsible for software support for all student laptops and can perform hardware diagnosis and repair as an Authorized Service Center for Apple, Dell, and Lenovo laptops. Please see our support hours here. If you have any questions, please email ITHELP@clemson.edu or call the CCIT Customer Support Center at (864) 656-3494. Quick Links: Laptop Specs Laptop Setup Computer Store Mac Software Windows Software Buy Apple Buy Dell Buy Lenovo Laptop Recommendations Each year CCIT develops a list a recommended laptops for incoming students based on current technology standards and the input of various colleges and departments. This year we will be offering four Dell models, four Lenovo models, a Microsoft Surface model, and six Apple models. You can find detailed specifications on the recommended models here. While we are equipped to help you with any make/model of laptop you may have, there are several benefits to buying a recommended laptop: Our support model is designed to provide quality service to those who purchase a recommended model. CCIT has negotiated special pricing for the recommended laptops. Clemson software can be installed online using the Company Portal for Windows laptops or the CCIT Mac installers for Mac laptops. If at any time, your operating system stops working on your Windows laptop, it can be reset at the CCIT Support Center. For a listing of additional available software, check our web site. All recommended Windows laptops purchased through Clemson include a four year warranty + four year accidental damage coverage. Note: the warranty only covers the battery for 1 year, and the accidental damage coverage DOES NOT cover damage to the charger nor does it cover theft, fire, or loss. The recommended Apple laptops purchased on-campus include one year of AppleCare warranty, which does not include accidental damage coverage. Two additional years of AppleCare warranty can be purchased. CCIT highly recommends the purchase of Safeware accidental damage coverage as non-warranty repairs can be very expensive! To purchase Safeware, contact the Clemson Computer Store at 864.656.1563. Safeware may also be purchased for non-recommended Windows laptops. On campus repair service is provided for your recommended laptop (except Microsoft Surface models). Our technicians are more familiar with the recommended laptops and we have priority access to replacement parts. If your recommended Windows or Apple laptop purchased through Clemson requires extensive hardware service, you may use one of the loaner laptops (except for Microsoft Surface models and depending upon availability) for your academic needs. Microsoft Surface repairs should be scheduled directly with Microsoft and sent in to them for repair….they’ll send a replacement device and you ship the broken one back. In most cases they give you a brand new device, so you have to make sure you get all of your data off and wipe the device before you send in. Usually the new device comes in pretty quickly. You will need to go through the Microsoft portal https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/check-your-microsoft-warranty-and-create-service-orders-644472b2-df94-41c7-a67d-2ac6577fc5f3 The customer needs to do this directly through their own Microsoft account!! If you have a laptop like many of your fellow students, it’s easy to share parts such as power supplies and batteries. Note: “Chromebooks”, “Netbooks”, and “iPads” and other light-use portable computing devices are not a viable option as your primary laptop. Support for these devices is extremely limited and consists only of setting up the wireless configuration and installing anti-virus software as required. How do I set up my laptop for use at Clemson? Visit the laptop setup page to find online resources to guide you through setting up your laptop or to register for an in-person Laptop Setup Workshop. (Due to COVID-19, there will be no in-person Laptop Setup Workshops for Fall 2021) Chat Now With Support Get Help (864) 656-3494 ITHelp@clemson.edu Live Online Chat Help Request Form Knowledge Base Browse Services System Status View Status Page Search Knowledge Base Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology