Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Support Get Help Incoming Students Username, Password, and CUID Email Setting Up Your Laptop Apple Laptop Setup Windows Laptop Setup Clemson Purchased Windows Setup NOT Clemson Purchased Windows Setup More Info and Contacts Parents’ Information New Faculty & Staff Current Students Computer Labs Lab Ad Request Email and Accounts Get Connected Wireless Ethernet (Wired) Telecommunications IT Training Instructor-led Training Online Virtual Training Custom Training Consulting Laptops Recommended Laptops for 2022-2023 Purchasing Tips & Tricks Clemson Computer Store Setting Up Your Laptop Printing & Plotting PaperCut 101 Locations Request a Refund Safe Computing Software Adobe Creative Cloud AWS Educate Program Grammarly Premium Sales & Purchasing Software Licenses Individual Licenses Web Downloads Student Organizations Kaltura Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Work for CCIT Application Current Faculty & Staff Audio-visual Technology Blended Learning Enabled Classrooms Classroom Technology Guides Classroom Technology Checklist Business Systems (CUBS) PeopleSoft Financials PeopleSoft HCM Email & Accounts LISTSERV: Barebones Guide for List Owners Email Lists Get Connected Wireless Hardware & Laptops Hardware and Software Roadmap IT Training Instructor-led Training Online Virtual Training Custom Training Consulting Printing & Plotting Request Resources Safe Computing Software Adobe Creative Cloud AWS Educate Program Grammarly Premium Sales & Purchasing Requesting a Quote Software Licenses Individual Licenses Web Downloads Which Software Versions? Kronos Configuration iRoar Configuration Work At Home Software Tech Support Program Administrative Support Advancement Agriculture, Forestry, and Life Sciences Architecture, Arts, and Humanities Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Athletics Business Cooperative Extension Services (CES) Education Engineering Computing and Applied Sciences Libraries Media and Pub. Affairs Medicaid Information Technology Sevices Public Services and Agriculture (PSAG) Science Service Desk Student Affairs Greenville One University Facilities Kaltura Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Teaching Tools Retirees and Emeritus Software Licenses Alumni Knowledge Base Knowledge Base Login Home Support Current Students Safe Computing Safe Computing Security is a part of our everyday thinking in this day and age. Clemson University takes security seriously and wants our users to be vigilant and practice due diligence when it comes to security. It is important that our users understand what is expected of them in securing Clemson’s resources as well as what concerns they should have to avoid falling victim to a security incident. This guide serves as a best practices guide to aid the user in following good security practices to help keep Clemson a safe and secure environment. Stay Current with the Safe Computing Update CCIT’s Office of Information Security regularly updates its Safe Computing Update page, detailing the latest cybersecurity threats and the best ways to keep your information safe online. Adhere to Clemson Computing Policies By agreeing to be a part of Clemson, you are also agreeing to abide by the policies established at Clemson. These policies are not intended to restrict or limit your effectiveness as a Clemson user but rather to help guarantee a safe environment for all users. It is important that users are aware of these policies and guidelines so that they can put them into practice as well as being alert for abuse of those policies. Please refer to CCIT’s Policies and Procedures site for more information. Protect your Identity It is vital that you safeguard your personal information as well as your Clemson account while working here at Clemson. Here are some helpful tips to assist you in protecting your identity at Clemson: Keep all electronic/physical items containing personal/account information secure at all times. Email is NOT a means of secure communication….never email personal information such as SSN’s or passwords Never store personal information or SSN’s on removable media such as USB keys, portable hard drives, etc. … Use strong passwords and take appropriate measures to safeguard them as outlined in the User ID and Passwords Policy. Never give out your password to another user or an IT administrator. Be careful of emails that ask for you to go to a web page and enter login information…type the web address manually rather than clicking on a link within the email. Safeguard your workstation While most Clemson faculty and staff machines are secured using our Campus Domain and Trend-Micro Anti-Virus Server, it’s a good idea to keep your machine clean and updated as well as protected by performing the recommended steps below: Turn on Windows Automatic Updating Visit Windows Update and check for updates Verify Trend-Micro Anti-Virus is installed/updated Run Anti-Spyware scans and check for spyware Log off your computer before leaving it idle Do not allow other users to work on your machine under your sign-on Be careful of downloading “free” programs as they tend to bring spyware along Do NOT install any file sharing programs For help with some of these steps on Windows computers, refer to the Cleaning Up Your System Knowledge Base article. Be Alert Clemson’s IT staff can only provide a layer of protection but it is up to the users to be vigilant and alert of threats to Clemson users and resources. Here are some things to look out for as you work each day at Clemson: NEVER give out your password to someone requesting it. Clemson IT staff will never ask for your password…please report anyone attempting to do so. Be alarmed if someone posing as a support person wants to “work” on your machine if they do not have an ID…feel free to card them! Report any suspicious users or actions that you feel could be malicious behavior. Report any suspicious behavior on your machine to your support person such as wondering mouse activity, deceiving pop-ups, or spontaneous programs. Report any harassment witnessed whether physical or electronic. Report any attempts to circumvent our security protections for personal gain or malicious intent. To report a security incident, please email ITHELP@clemson.edu Chat Now With Support Get Help (864) 656-3494 ITHelp@clemson.edu Live Online Chat Help Request Form Knowledge Base Browse Services System Status View Status Page Search Knowledge Base Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology