Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Home CCIT News CCIT This Week: Phone spoofing and gift card scams, Zoom features, and more CCIT This Week: Phone spoofing and gift card scams, Zoom features, and more Ryan Real, CCIT Communications May 31, 2022 Welcome to CCIT This Week, where we give you a rundown of news, tips, upcoming maintenance and more. This page will be updated throughout the week. Follow us on Twitter @ClemsonIT for daily information and timely updates. News Be aware of recent phone spoofing and gift card scams. University phone numbers are being used in a new Phone Spoofing campaign where cybercriminals are trying to trick our users into revealing information. In this latest campaign, the scammers were impersonating Clemson 656-xxxx numbers and targeting Clemson employees. Gift card scams, which typically target students in email phishing campaigns, are impersonating Clemson faculty and asking students for information. Typically, if you respond to the email, they will attempt to trick you into buying gift cards for them or disclosing your bank account information. Learn more about how to recognize these scams. Learn helpful Zoom features for your classes! In this week’s Quick Hits session, Clemson Online will discuss Zoom features that you may want to incorporate into your online instruction, like audience polling, chats and breakout rooms. Quick Hits: Zoom Features will begin Thursday, June 2 at 3:30 p.m.—learn more at Clemson Online’s website. The Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies’ popular GIS Fundamentals Workshop Series is back! The series continues this week with “Intermediate Spatial Analysis” and “Introduction to Spatial Statistics,” and is delivered online every Thursday and Friday from 1-4 p.m. Learn more on the Center’s website and sign up on CU Course. CU Cyber, Clemson’s competitive cybersecurity team, captured another Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition championship, its seventh in the last 10 years. Read more at Clemson News. Congratulations to CCIT software developer Doug Dawson, winner of this year’s Thomas Green Clemson Award for Excellence for Staff! Read more at Clemson News. Beginning on May 5, Duo began blocking authentications from users whose IP address originates in a country or region subject to economic and trade sanctions enforced by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. Learn more on the Duo website. CCIT is exploring options with respect to this change, so contact us if you have questions. We put together a list of budget-friendly IT resources for employees. Find out how you can access Grammarly Premium, Adobe Creative Cloud, Microsoft Office 365 and a whole lot more at no cost to you on our News page. If you forward your Clemson.edu mail to Gmail, you may encounter problems due to new security enhancements. CCIT does not recommend email forwarding to yourself outside of the Clemson environment. Traveling internationally this summer? We can help with Duo now that the Duo “Call Me” option has been removed. Check out some PDF instructions showing what you need and what your options are for authenticating. Upcoming Maintenance Check out this week’s upcoming maintenance events on our CCIT Status Page. Notices Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Students Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Faculty and Staff New Student Laptop Models Available for 2022-2023 Adobe Software is now available using your Clemson login CCIT Chat Support is now Available Previous CCIT Home News Popular Chat Now With Support Quick Links Get Help New To Clemson Safe Computing Password Reset my.Clemson Palmetto Cluster System Status View Status Page Skip Twitter Feed Follow @ClemsonIT CCIT @ClemsonIT Kaltura training sessions begin today! Learn the basics of Clemson's new video platform in the first live session at 1 p.m.! blogs.clemso… pic.twitter.… 1:16 pm · May 16, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Congratulations to CU Cyber on another victory at the Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition—their seventh in 10 years! news.clemson… 2:13 pm · May 12, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT The UPIC Program has been extremely rewarding for CCIT, both for students and mentors. We are thankful for @ClemsonCCPD and all the student interns who've participated! twitter.com/… 6:41 pm · May 5, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT When Ben asks us to come up with a Star Wars Day tweet pic.twitter.… 3:35 pm · May 4, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Want to learn more about Kaltura, Clemson's new video hosting platform? Don't miss these upcoming training opportunities from @ClemsonOnline! Find everything you need to get started at clemson.edu/… pic.twitter.… 3:27 pm · May 3, 2022 Skip to Twitter Feed Start Skip Instagram Feed Follow ccit_clemson ccit_clemson Meet Emily👋⁣ ⁣ Emily is from Long Island, N Meet Kaitlyn👋⁣ ⁣ Kaitlyn is from Pembroke P Meet our CCIT Student Workers!👋⁣ ⁣ Isabella CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of phishing⚠️ Phishing is a type of soc CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of vishing⚠️ Vishing occurs when a cybe In a male-dominated industry, women continue to th Make sure you're ready when phone calls will no lo Skip to Instagram Feed Start Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology