Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Home CCIT News CCIT News More CCIT Stories At Clemson Newsstand Get RSS Link CCIT This Week: Kaltura training, Working with Tabular Data in GIS, and more Welcome to CCIT This Week, where we give you a rundown of news, tips, upcoming maintenance and more. This page will be updated throughout the week. Follow us on Twitter @clemsonIT for daily information and timely updates. News Kaltura training sessions continue this week! Kaltura is replacing Ensemble as a video content management system and allows Clemson users to create or upload video files on the... Continue Reading Automatically forwarding emails may cause delivery problems for users Clemson is continuously evaluating email security and enhancements that are needed to protect our users and data. A recent change to implement URL Defense through Proofpoint has resulted in increased delivery issues for some users that are automatically forwarding messages from Clemson’s email service to services not managed by Clemson, including personal Gmail accounts. If you have set up automatic forwarding from your Clemson managed... Continue Reading Budget-friendly IT resources for faculty and staff CCIT provides a wealth of services that can boost your professional and personal life as a Clemson employee. Check out these budget-friendly tools available to employees, from cutting-edge creative software to ways that help you stay safe online. Grammarly Premium Writing can be tough. Grammarly helps, offering suggestions to make your work—from emails to academic papers—error-free, concise and readable. Plus, Grammarly Premium (usually a $30 per... Continue Reading URL rewrite policy implemented for employee email As part of our ongoing commitment to enhancing security, CCIT has implemented Proofpoint URL Defense. Proofpoint, already in place safeguarding Clemson employee email since 2015, will scan incoming email for malicious hyperlinks and for attachments containing malware. When you hover over a link in your email, it will be rewritten and begin with https://urldefense.proofpoint.com. When you click on the link, it will be scanned again... Continue Reading Duo phone calls (“Call Me”) no longer accepted on Tuesday, March 29, 2022 CCIT and Clemson University are continually evaluating cybersecurity protocols and practices to ensure the safety of Clemson users and systems. As part of this, we have recently begun making changes to many of our Duo two-factor authentication practices to enhance security. A major upcoming change in our practice includes the removal of the Duo phone call (“Call Me”) option to authenticate when logging into ANY... Continue Reading Critical Google Chrome update – February 15, 2022 ... Continue Reading Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies inspires campus-wide GIS use ... Continue Reading Return your hotspot: Do your part to help your fellow students and colleagues At the start of 2020, the University procured a limited supply of hotspots to serve our students and employees who were impacted by COVID. While the University has reached out to ask for help, only 10 percent of these devices have been returned and are readily available to help with isolation and quarantine needs. At this time, these devices are scheduled to be turned off... Continue Reading Online holiday shopping tips from CCIT To help promote awareness during the holiday shopping season, the Office of Information Security would like to share some safe online shopping tips. Best wishes to all during the upcoming holidays! For more tips about staying safe online (and beyond), visit our Cybersecurity page at ccit.clemson.edu/cybersecurity. Shop at secure websites that you trust Play it safe by doing online business with trusted retailers you have shopped with before... Continue Reading Tiger Tech Week – Nov. 15-19 Don't miss a full slate of tech events during Tiger Tech Week! Tiger Tech Week is hosted by Clemson Undergraduate Student Government and features: Monday: Makerspace workshop: 3-5 in the Watt Makerspace Tuesday: Tech Petting Zoo: Tech petting zoo with the R.M. Cooper Library’s tech equipment from 11 a.m. – 1 p.m. in the Adobe Digital Studio Wednesday: Clemson Mappers GIS Day event: 3-4 p.m., room 412... Continue Reading Cybersecurity Alert: Phone scam targeting Clemson employees CCIT has received reports of a new phone spoofing campaign targeting Clemson users. Scammers have attempted to trick people into revealing information related to an employee's position and their University financial responsibilities. Phone spoofing is when a caller deliberately falsifies their caller information so that their call appears to be from someone else. Scammers use this method to try and impersonate a phone number that... Continue Reading Bring your documents to shred on Tuesday, November 16 Clemson University’s Office of Information Security will sponsor a Document Shred Event on Tuesday, November 16, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Shredding services will be available at 118 Ravenel Center Place (in the side parking lot). The event will be free and open to the public. Personal and business documents will be accepted for shredding. Shredding documents with personal or confidential information ensures that... Continue Reading New Duo Mobile screen after app update DUO has updated and redesigned the user interface on their DUO Mobile Application for both iOS and Android. After updating to version 4, users will see the new look. The functionality is basically the same, but the Push Approval prompt has been redesigned, as shown here... Continue Reading Continuing a creative tradition Research, innovation and creativity define the Clemson University experience, and the partnerships with like-minded individuals, companies and corporations enhance those experiences. Since 2014, Clemson has partnered with Adobe in a variety of ways with the most impactful example of this pairing coming in the form of the Adobe Digital Studio at the R.L. Cooper Library on campus. This creative, collaborative space has served as a hub of... Continue Reading Employees: Change your password before October 12, 2021 As a requirement of the renewal of the University’s cyber-risk insurance policy, CCIT is requiring all active employees to change their passwords before Tuesday, October 12. This is not due to any known or immediate cybersecurity threat but will help safeguard Clemson against new and varying risks within the present technology landscape and will ensure the security and integrity of access to Clemson’s information technology environment. If you... Continue Reading Update your Apple devices This week, Apple distributed an urgent update patch for iOS and macOS to address a malware attack that can impact iPhones, iPads, Apple Watch, iPod Touch and Mac computer devices. Update your devices as soon as possible. For more, visit our Cybersecurity Alerts page... Continue Reading October 1, 2021: Upcoming changes to Google Drive for Clemson alumni Due to a recent Google policy change that will affect all higher education institutions, Google Drive storage for Clemson University alumni will be disabled on October 1, 2021. At this time there will be no changes to alumni email at g.clemson.edu, which will continue to function normally. Due to these storage changes, alumni will need to transfer any documents or data stored in Google... Continue Reading Join the IT Student Advisory Board for 2021-22! The Information Technology Student Advisory Board is now accepting applications for ITSAB student members for the 2021-22 year. Undergraduate and graduate students are encouraged to apply. ITSAB works to improve the technological aspect of students' lives, helping to fund project ideas and representing student viewpoints while advising CCIT leadership. Apply at bit... Continue Reading CCIT’s collaborative drone project offers new look at Clemson’s campus Since its founding, Clemson University has been photographed thousands of times, in every season from nearly every angle. A new project from CCIT’s Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies has raised the bar for campus imagery, however, using drones and high performance computing to process more than 7,000 high-resolution aerial photos as part of an inter-department collaboration... Continue Reading TigerOne Mobile ID now available on Android Clemson University students and employees can now add their TigerOne Mobile IDs to their Android devices! After adding your TigerOne Mobile ID to your device through the GET app, simply tap your TigerOne Mobile ID at readers on and off campus for access to residence halls, dining locations, campus recreation facilities, libraries, retail locations and more. Learn more on the Clemson Campus Life page... Continue Reading PaperCut to replace PawPrints on May 24, 2021 PaperCut has replaced PawPrints as Clemson University’s student printing and plotting solution. Effective Monday, May 24, students will no longer be able to print using PawPrints. PaperCut features a similar method of printing to PawPrints using your TigerOne card at an available printer, but you will need to install PaperCut if you plan on printing from your laptop or mobile device. PaperCut offers enhanced sustainability,... Continue Reading Present your work at Clemson’s Supercomputing 21 Booth CCIT is pleased to invite faculty, staff, and students to contribute and present their work at Clemson University’s Exhibition Booth at SC21, being held this year in St. Louis, Mo., November 14-19. SC is attended by experts in high performance computing, networking, storage and analysis from academia and industry, and by researchers using large-scale computing to solve problems in various domains in science, engineering, arts,... Continue Reading Clemson to host South Carolina Small Business Cybersecurity Summit May 12 ... Continue Reading Strategic migration from Box as cloud storage solution postponed Over the last few months, IT Consultants have reached out to learn more about how you and your department used Box in anticipation of moving away from Box as a cloud storage and collaboration service. Originally targeted for a May 2021 completion, our existing Box contract has been extended and no action to migrate data is needed at this time. Your feedback and assistance provided... Continue Reading Clemson Data Lab connects data science, research for all The Data Lab, a partnership between CCIT and the School of Computing, offers faculty and students an interdisciplinary hub for research assistance, training and computing resources for data-related projects and initiatives. Since its launch in June, the Data Lab has already played a crucial role in several projects at Clemson, partnering with faculty for over a million dollars on associated grants... Continue Reading Two CCIT employees selected for national technology leadership roles Two Clemson Computing and Information Technology (CCIT) employees were named to lead a pair of prestigious Internet2 committees, the organization recently announced. “I am extremely proud of Bobby Clark and Brian Miller for their new leadership positions with Internet2,” said Russ Kaurloto, Clemson’s Vice President of Information Technology and Chief Information Officer. “They excel in their work at Clemson and this recognition from their national... Continue Reading CCIT employee invited to Gov. McMaster’s ‘White Cane Day’ proclamation On October 15, CCIT senior Network Operations Center technician Billy Irwin joined leaders of South Carolina's blind community at the South Carolina State House to celebrate Governor Henry McMaster’s proclamation honoring White Cane Day. White Cane Day celebrates the achievements of Americans who are visually impaired and recognizes the white cane as a symbol of independence... Continue Reading Ensure you have enough space before upgrading to Big Sur (UPDATE) UPDATE: The revised macOS Big Sur 11.2.1 released on February 15, 2021 checks to make sure there is enough available storage before the installation begins. If you have questions regarding an upgrade to Big Sur, please contact CCIT Support. Previous story from February 12 follows: If you plan on upgrading your Mac to the newest operating system, macOS Big Sur (11.2), please ensure you have sufficient free... Continue Reading Get comfortable with your classroom: hybrid blended learning classroom tours on January 4 and 5 Are you teaching on campus this Spring? Join CCIT and Clemson Online for hybrid blended learning best practices before taking a classroom tour. These in-person sessions will start in Cooper Library at the top of every hour with a 20-minute discussion on blended learning best practices then a 30-minute classroom tour that includes practicing with the A/V technology. These sessions will be from 9... Continue Reading Apple MacOS ‘Big Sur’ (11.0) Advisory Big Sur has been cleared by CCIT—you can now upgrade your Mac's operating system safely. CCIT was waiting for several compatibility updates on frequently used programs, and those updates have now been issued and tested. Learn more about Big Sur, including technical requirements, on the Apple website... Continue Reading Information for students and instructors about online exams Though nearly everyone at Clemson University has become familiar with remote learning, both students and instructors should make sure they’re comfortable before final exams and planning for the Spring semester. Students can head into their exams knowing their technology will function properly by enrolling in the Test Your Tech Canvas course. Take practice tests in Respondus Monitor, Respondus LockDown Browser and Remote Proctor now to... Continue Reading Adobe Flash End of Life — December 31, 2020 Adobe will stop distributing and updating Flash Player after December 31, 2020. Flash is used to view multimedia content in web browsers and mobile devices. Approaching more than 20 years of use, Flash has become vulnerable to bugs and security deficencies. Clemson University has been moving away from Flash in its applications and resources over the past several years. After December 31, 2020, personal use... Continue Reading Visit Clemson University’s Virtual Booth at Supercomputing 20 Exhibits at SC20, or The International Conference for High Performance Computing Networking, Storage, and Analysis, open this week and Clemson University’s virtual booth is live at ccit.clemson.edu/sc-2020... Continue Reading GIS Day 2020 is November 18! Join us for inspiring talks, fun contests, and great prizes The Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies is proud to celebrate one more year with our community GIS Day. Join us virtually on Wednesday, November 18, at 2 p.m. by visiting bit.ly/joingisday (Zoom link). Our annual salute to geographic information science and technologies brings together GIS professionals, faculty, students, and staff to show how GIS is used to achieve broad and transformative impacts to respond to... Continue Reading Grammarly Premium now available for students and employees Grammarly Premium is now available to Clemson University students, staff and faculty free of charge. Grammarly is an online writing assistant that can help strengthen your writing and avoid plagiarism. Grammarly checks 400 types of spelling, grammar, and punctuation errors, enhances vocabulary usage, and suggests citations. The Clemson Academic Technology Council played a key role in recommending and bringing Grammarly to Clemson. To access Grammarly: Visit grammarly.com. ... Continue Reading Zoom Storage Update: Effective October 23, 2020 The transition to remote instruction has played a key role in keeping our students and instructors safe while fulfilling Clemson University’s academic mission. Unfortunately, the increase in online classes through Zoom has resulted in Clemson approaching the licensed Zoom storage limit. Beginning on October 23, 2020, Zoom recordings older than 180 days will be sent to the trash and then permanently deleted 30 days afterwards.... Continue Reading CCIT services availability for Spring 2021 As we continue the semester, we want you to know what CCIT services are available to you from CCIT. Check out the list below for availability of our support services for Spring 2021. Software and hardware support: The CCIT Support Center is available during normal hours by email, chat, text or phone. If the issue can not be resolved remotely, we will work with you to... Continue Reading CCIT and Clemson Online to offer in-person classroom technology demos and testing September 15 and 16 CCIT and Clemson Online are sponsoring in-person classroom technology demonstrations next week in the Cooper Library. Instructors are highly encouraged to attend one of these sessions to gain hands-on experience with new classroom technology before blended classes begin on the 21st. CCIT and Clemson Online are offering these sessions and asking instructors to make their preparations in advance for using any in-classroom and online... Continue Reading ‘Forget’ eduroam and re-join starting on August 7 On Friday, August 7, CCIT updated the eduroam certificate that secures our wireless logins. The next time you visit campus you will need to “forget” the eduroam network and re-join on any device using eduroam. For more information about eduroam, including automatic installers and documentation, visit our Wireless page. If you run into issues or need assistance, please contact CCIT by emailing ITHELP@clemson.edu, calling/texting (864)... Continue Reading We’re hiring student workers for Fall 2020! CCIT Customer Services is looking to hire quite a few students for the upcoming semester. You don’t need to be a Computer Science or Computing Engineering major to apply and hours are flexible, so chat with us if you are interested in a making a little extra money this year! The two primary positions we are looking for are “Classroom AV Intern” and “Student Support... Continue Reading New to online learning at Clemson? Start here Welcome to the Clemson Family! We’ve put together some introductory information for what you need to know as you take your first remote classes as a Tiger. CCIT (Clemson Computing and Information Technology) is your IT provider at Clemson. We’re here to help you every step of the way. Our Current Students page offers helpful information regarding email, software and your Clemson account. If you... Continue Reading Licensed Zoom accounts now available to faculty, students and staff As a result of feedback from across the University community, Clemson staff, students and faculty now have access to Zoom licensed accounts free of charge. To initiate your licensed account, log in to clemson.zoom.us with your Clemson username and password. Licensed users enjoy a number of features not available to the basic free accounts previously available to students. Additional features... Continue Reading Checklist for graduating students Are you graduating from Clemson? Congratulations! Before you head out into the world, we have some suggestions for what you can do to make sure you don't leave your technology and work behind. Visit the CCIT Alumni page for a list of steps regarding your transcript, software, email and more. A new tool from Adobe will let you migrate the work and assets you've... Continue Reading Stay safe online with CCIT cybersecurity alerts CCIT's Office of Information Security (OIS) maintains an up-to-date Cybersecurity Alerts page to keep the Clemson community informed of the latest in cybersecurity news and tips. OIS will provide updates on new phishing attempts, technology recommendations and more. Visit and bookmark ccit.clemson.edu/cybersecurity/cybersecurity-alerts to stay current on how to protect yourself online at Clemson. For more on cybersecurity at Clemson, including how-to guides, training and more, visit ccit.clemson.edu/cybersecurity... Continue Reading Daily Tech Tips for Clemson instructors During this transition to the online classroom, CCIT and Clemson Online will share a daily tip or reference guide that features Clemson supported instructional tools. When creating tests or exams, you may be worried about academic integrity. There are several options available to you to curb cheating during remote testing. Clemson Online offers Respondus Online as a solution for test proctoring. Respondus Monitor builds upon the power... Continue Reading Present your work at Clemson’s Supercomputing 20 booth CCIT is pleased to invite faculty, staff, and students to contribute and present their work at Clemson University’s Exhibition Booth at Supercomputing 20, being held this year in Atlanta, Ga., November 15-20. SC is attended by experts in high performance computing, networking, storage and analysis from academia and industry, and by researchers using large-scale computing to solve problems in various domains in science, engineering,... Continue Reading Patricia Carbajales-Dale named 2020 TRELIS Fellow Patricia Carbajales-Dale, Executive Director of the Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies, has been named one of 15 TRELIS (Training and Retaining Leaders in STEM-Geospatial Sciences) Fellows. "I am truly honored to have been selected as a TRELIS Fellow," said Carbajales-Dale. "I look forward to connecting and learning from an exceptional group of women leaders in GIScience." TRELIS is a unique model for professional development for women... Continue Reading Adobe Digital Workshops announced for 2020 spring semester Everyone possesses creative talent, but sometimes it's hard to know how to get started or which tool to use. The free Adobe Digital Studio workshop series will show you how to let your creativity shine through photo, video, coding, podcasts and more—including drones, fabric and laser cutting this semester! The series will be held from 3-4 p.m. on Tuesdays in either Cooper Library or... Continue Reading Get your new year off to a great start It’s officially the spring semester at Clemson University, and whether you’re returning or just starting out, we’re happy to have you! We’re here to help, and we have some easy tips to get you and tech off to a great start in 2020. Set up your new device If you got a new phone, tablet or gaming system over the holidays, you may need to take... Continue Reading Lightning talks, great prizes, cool tech highlight Wednesday’s GIS Day 2019 on Wednesday [caption id="attachment_16650" align="alignright" width="300"] GIS Day offers a ton of great prizes, including a football signed by Clemson football coach Dabo Swinney.[/caption] The Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies will host GIS Day 2019 on Wednesday, November 13, from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Center's location at 412 Cooper Library. The event brings together GIS professionals, faculty, students and staff to show off the... Continue Reading Navy security expert to speak at Watt Center on Thursday, October 10 As part of National Cybersecurity Awareness Month, Kelvin Moore, deputy director of the National Cyber Range Complex in Charleston, will speak about "A Cyber Criminal's Perspective" on Thursday, October 10 at the Watt Family Innovation Center from 4:30-6 p.m.. He will share information security from a criminal’s perspective, including real-world examples of cyber attacks. Cybersecurity is one of the fastest-growing career fields today, with the Bureau... Continue Reading Bring your sensitive documents to shred free of charge on Wednesday, October 9 Clemson University’s Office of Information Security will sponsor a Document Shred Event on Wednesday, October 9, from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Shredding services will be available at 118 Ravenel Center Place (in the side parking lot). The event will be free and open to the public... Continue Reading CUBS PeopleSoft HR to undergo upgrade September 27-30 CUBS PeopleSoft HR will undergo a system upgrade beginning Friday, September 27, 2019 at 12 p.m. through Monday, September 30, 2019 at 8 a.m. During this time, paystubs and other employee self-services will be available as view-only. No applications for Clemson University jobs will be accepted during this upgrade. If you have questions or need assistance, please contact our CCIT Support Center at (864) 656-3494... Continue Reading Dedication keeps CCIT’s Parker Willey driving safely for more than 30 years This summer, CCIT courier Parker Willey was given the South Carolina’s State Government 30-year Safe Driver Award, recognizing employees who safely operated state-owned vehicles. To qualify for the award, employees must have operated state-owned vehicles without a single chargeable accident or moving violation. Although Willey has been a courier for 32 years, he received the 30-year award because the program did not exist until 1989, two... Continue Reading Let your creativity shine with free Adobe Digital Studio Workshops Everyone possesses creative talent, but sometimes it's hard to know how to get started or which tool to use. The free Adobe Digital Studio workshop series will show you how to let your creativity shine through photo, video, coding, podcasts and more. The series will be held from 3-4 p.m. on Tuesdays and the occasional Thursday in either Cooper Library or the Pearce Center... Continue Reading Clemson University Alexa Skill adds new features The Clemson University Alexa Skill was updated to version 1.3.0 on Wednesday, August 14. The update adds new responses for transportation, recreation and registrar questions. For more about the Clemson University Alexa Skill, check out our news article about its release. New features: my.Clemson Alerts: You can now subscribe and receive Parking and Transportation Alerts on your Alexa-enabled devices. For more details, see our article... Continue Reading Clemson University to offer TigerOne ID on iPhone and Apple Watch Clemson University students, faculty and staff will be able to add their TigerOne ID cards to Apple Wallet and use their iPhone and Apple Watch to access buildings on campus, purchase meals and much more starting this fall. “This powerful technology gives students, faculty and staff a more secure and convenient way to use their university IDs,” said Russell M. Kaurloto, vice president for Information Technology... Continue Reading Clemson CyberSecurity Operations Center Clemson University is like a small city with a diverse community of people and technology. While this environment brings many benefits, opportunities, and notoriety, it also brings many challenges. The University faces many cyber threats from around the world on a daily basis, but thanks to preventative and detective measures, the majority of those threats are blocked without user intervention. However, that still leaves some... Continue Reading New website emphasizes Clemson cybersecurity The Office of Information Security has launched a new Cybersecurity website. [caption id="attachment_15491" align="alignright" width="300"] New Cybersecurity option in CCIT website's main menu.[/caption] You can access it by choosing the new main menu option on CCIT's website or by navigating to https://ccit.clemson.edu/cybersecurity. This new resource was designed to provide the Clemson community with a single user-friendly portal for all things relating to cybersecurity. Information is organized into six... Continue Reading Present your work at Clemson’s Supercomputing 19 booth CCIT is pleased to invite faculty, staff, and students to contribute and present their work at Clemson University’s Exhibition Booth at Supercomputing 19, being held this year in Denver, Colorado, November 17-22. SC is attended by experts in high performance computing, networking, storage and analysis from academia and industry, and by researchers using large-scale computing to solve problems in various domains in science, engineering,... Continue Reading “Alexa, ask Clemson University…” • Clemson debuts new Alexa Skill Have you ever wanted to know something about Clemson University but didn’t know who to ask? Now you can ask Alexa–whether you need to know how to pay your tuition charges, how to access iROAR, or just want to hear Tiger Rag. "We’re proud to develop the official Clemson University Alexa Skill that answers real questions from students, employees and members of the Clemson community,"... Continue Reading CCIT requests help with database cleanup effort As many in the Clemson community are aware, CCIT has made significant strides in bolstering the University’s information security posture in recent months. Most recently, this has involved an effort to better secure the University’s database infrastructure through upgrading these systems to the latest operating environment. As part of this effort, legacy databases on the older infrastructure will either need to be migrated to... Continue Reading Clemson’s August drone workshop will help local businesses, research take off Commercial drones are a billion-dollar industry, but many don’t know where to turn for information about regulations and certifications, how to select a drone for their operations, or learning the technical aspects of drone use. On August 6-7, the Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies (CCGT), in collaboration with Clemson Libraries, will offer a comprehensive workshop to answer those questions and help local businesses take off. The workshop... Continue Reading Employee Office 365 to require two-factor authentication on Monday, April 15 In keeping with recent cybersecurity enhancements to protect the University and the Clemson community, two-factor authentication will soon be required for employees accessing Office 365 (including email). The two-week implementation process covering all employees will begin on Monday, April 15. Clemson began offering Duo authentication for Office 365 on an opt-in basis beginning in October 2018. Hundreds of employees have voluntarily enrolled, providing valuable feedback... Continue Reading Adobe to host Technology Showcase, Creative Jam on February 28-March 1 Adobe will visit Clemson University to give a series of free tech demonstrations and workshops on Thursday, February 28 before hosting a student Adobe Creative Jam on Friday, March 1. The events, part of Clemson CollabFest, will be held in the Watt Family Innovation Center and Cooper Library. [caption id="attachment_14852" align="alignright" width="300"] Paul Trani and Terry White will present how to create like a pro with... Continue Reading CCIT offers free immersive VR, visualization workshops in February and April Virtual reality and visualization can help you better understand your data, and CCIT wants to help you get started with free VR and visualization workshops in February and April. CCIT’s Advanced Visualization Division works with cutting-edge virtual and augmented reality technologies and will show you the basics in three series of workshops. Participants will be required to bring a laptop and classes will be held in... Continue Reading CCIT, Parking and Transportation Services unveil push notifications to iOS users CLEMSON — Parking and Transportation Services has partnered with the mobile innovation team from Clemson Computing and Information Technology (CCIT) to introduce push notifications for main campus updates in real time through the my.Clemson app. The first phase will be available only to iOS operating system users, which comprises 88 percent of Clemson’s campus population. “We are thrilled to be the first department to partner... Continue Reading Apple to discuss education, offer free hands-on workshops on Tuesday, November 27 [caption id="attachment_14581" align="alignright" width="300"] Apple will visit campus on Tuesday, November 27 to discuss their education initiatives and offer hands-on workshops at the Watt Family Innovation Center.[/caption] Want to learn about the future of education and technology? Clemson students, staff and faculty are invited to learn about Apple's coding, creating and mobile initiatives and receive free hands-on instruction from Apple representatives on Tuesday, November 27... Continue Reading Visit Clemson University’s booth at the Supercomputing 18 conference Clemson University will be attending this year's Supercomputing ’18, being held in Dallas, Texas, November 11-16. SC is attended by experts in high performance computing, networking, storage and analysis from academia and industry, and by researchers using large-scale computing to solve problems in various domains in science, engineering, art and humanities. The Clemson University Exhibition Booth at Booth #227 will showcase the Clemson research community's activities and... Continue Reading Safe Computing Update April 8, 2019 In the latest Phishing email attack, users receive a bogus email from a compromised Clemson email address which states "Your incoming mails and documents have been placed on hold due to recent spam activities. We need you to verify your account before you can view new files". If you click on the “Verify Now” link in that email, you are sent to... Continue Reading CCIT offers immersive VR, visualization workshops in September and October Virtual reality and visualization can help you better understand your data, and CCIT wants to help you get started with free VR and visualization workshops in September and October. CCIT’s Advanced Visualization Division works with cutting-edge virtual and augmented reality technologies and will show you the basics in three series of workshops. Participants will be required to bring a laptop and classes will be held in... Continue Reading Adobe to offer lightning workshops, giveaways on September 28 Adobe will visit Clemson on Friday, September 28 to hold a series of lightning workshops and give away free Adobe swag at Library Bridge from 8-11:30 a.m. The free lightning workshops will be held in the Adobe Digital Studio at R.M. Cooper Library and last half an hour each: Video Editing Basics • 9-9:30 a.m. See how easy it is to import your footage, create a sequence,... Continue Reading Amazon to visit Clemson on September 24 for Smart Life Roadshow, DataPalooza workshop Amazon is coming to Clemson University on Monday, September 24 with a pair of events designed to educate and show off Amazon's newest technology at the Watt Family Innovation Center and the Academic Success Center. Smart Life Roadshow The Smart Life Roadshow is bringing the world’s smartest and most wow-inducing airstream to Clemson University on September 24 at the Watt Family Innovation Center. This Smart Life... Continue Reading Texting, Twitter, Facebook and web chat support now available The CCIT Support Center is proud to announce new ways to get help with technology at Clemson via texting, Twitter, Facebook and web chat. You may have noticed the new orange chat icon at the bottom of every page on the CCIT website, including this one. You can click that icon to chat instantly with at CCIT Support Center representative. You could always call our CCIT... Continue Reading Qualtrics survey tool now available at Clemson CCIT is proud to announce that the Qualtrics online survey tool is now available to all Clemson University faculty, staff, and students, for Clemson-related projects. Qualtrics is a powerful, Web-based platform that allows users to create surveys, collect and store data, collaborate with colleagues, and produce reports from anywhere in the world. If you plan to create a survey, please contact Clemson's Office of Institutional Assessment and... Continue Reading Present your work at Clemson’s Supercomputing 18 booth CCIT is pleased to invite faculty, staff, and students to contribute and present their work at Clemson University’s Exhibition Booth at Supercomputing '18, being held this year in Dallas, Texas, November 11-16. SC is attended by experts in high performance computing, networking, storage and analysis from academia and industry, and by researchers using large-scale computing to solve problems in various domains in science, engineering,... Continue Reading Clemson cybersecurity team wins state competition’s top prize CU Cyber, the Clemson University competitive cybersecurity team, won first place at the recent Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition (PCDC) at Trident Technical College in Charleston. The victory marks the fourth time in the last six years CU Cyber has taken home the top prize. “After winning in 2016 and coming in second place last year, the team was eager to bring the trophy back to... Continue Reading CCIT to migrate Peoplesoft group storage (P: drive) on April 21 At 8 a.m. on Saturday, April 21, CCIT will migrate the drive space used to access PeopleSoft and financial files, commonly referred to as the P: drive. After the move, data will be visible in a folder on your H: drive. This migration will affect employees that access this drive space. If you did not previously have an H: drive, one will appear automatically... Continue Reading CCIT introduces new system status page Are you tired of receiving CCIT emails about routine maintenance and minor incidents? CCIT listened to your feedback and is proud to announce a new IT Status Page at status.ccit.clemson.edu, which will eliminate those emails and allows users to view the status of Clemson University systems at a glance. The new system status page offers current information about the status of Clemson University systems like... Continue Reading CCIT offers free virtual reality, visualization workshops in March Virtual reality and visualization can help you better understand your data, and CCIT wants to help you get started with free VR and visualization workshops in March. CCIT’s Advanced Visualization Division works with cutting-edge virtual and augmented reality technologies and will show you the basics in capturing 360-degree video, body scanning, video and image editing and how to bring interactive VR into the classroom on... Continue Reading Meltdown/Spectre vulnerability update information By now you have probably heard of the “Meltdown” and “Spectre” computer vulnerabilities, two serious security flaws that have been found within computer processors. The vulnerabilities could allow hackers to steal sensitive data without users knowing, one of them affecting chips made as far back as 1995. In an effort to keep the campus community safe, all CCIT-managed desktop and laptop computers have been directed... Continue Reading CCIT launches Outlook ‘Report Phishing’ button Phishing emails continue to be a favorite method of cybercriminals and it's important Clemson users remain watchful and take the appropriate actions. When you receive a suspicious email, detection, reporting, and deletion of the email is the best way to avoid danger. Clicking on links from a phishing email or responding in any way can cause personal information (such as usernames and passwords) to... Continue Reading IT Student Advisory Board accepting technology proposals Have a technology idea to make student life better at Clemson University? Submit your proposal to the IT Student Advisory Board (ITSAB), and they can help make it happen. Last year, the board allocated $472,500 to projects ranging from laundry alert systems to 3D printing. Submit your proposal featuring a faculty advisor and proposed budget (and it doesn't have to be too complex—one or two... Continue Reading Shred Bowl set for Tuesday, November 21 If you were unable to attend the shred event last month due to weather, there’s another opportunity! Clemson’s Office of Information Security is sponsoring the 5th Annual Shred Bowl on Tuesday, November 21st, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Littlejohn Coliseum’s North Lot (at the corner of Perimeter Road and Ravenel Road). This event is free and open to the public, and will serve... Continue Reading Discovery and innovation to quicken with Palmetto Cluster’s $1 million upgrade [caption id="attachment_13078" align="alignright" width="300"] Amy Apon, center, stands with her team next to the Palmetto Cluster supercomputer.[/caption] A $1-million upgrade to Clemson University’s acclaimed supercomputer, the Palmetto Cluster, is expected to help researchers quicken the pace of scientific discovery and technological innovation in a broad range of fields, from developing new medicines to creating advanced materials. New hardware that could be in place as early as... Continue Reading Severe Weather IT Preparedness Severe weather can strike at any time. With that in mind, here are some tips to follow that can help protect you and your technology. Also, be sure to follow instructions at ready.gov for general disaster preparedness. Update your my.Clemson information Be sure that your information is up-to-date in my.Clemson, including your CU Safe Alert Number and your emergency contact information. To view and modify this information,... Continue Reading CITI offering funding for Supercomputing 2017 conference The CITI group is offering to cover costs of registration and travel for students and faculty to attend Supercomputing 2017, being held this year in Denver, Colorado, from November 12 to 17. We encourage researchers across all areas in social and natural sciences, engineering, and humanities at Clemson University to apply. This is part of CITI’s outreach efforts to encourage new research enabled by large scale computing resources and... Continue Reading Join Clemson GIS’s Solar Eclipse Experience Project The Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies has created a story map for the 2017 Solar Eclipse and want to hear about your experience! The project will combine selfies and recollections to create an interactive map of how Tigers experienced the eclipse, and joining takes just a few steps: Follow this link and click the blue "Participate" button at the top of the page. Click... Continue Reading Clemson University to serve as key collaborator on Stampede2 supercomputer Clemson University will play a key role for the Texas Advanced Computing Center’s (TACC) new Stampede2 supercomputer, dedicated on July 28. Stampede2 is the largest supercomputer at any U.S. university, and one of the most powerful systems in the world. Clemson University will participate in campus bridging, outreach and education for researchers. Building on the success of the campus bridging and series of workshops organized... Continue Reading Clemson Visualization welcomes students for summer data research program This summer, ten students from across the country have traveled to Clemson University to work alongside researchers and tackle “big data” visualization solutions through one of its National Science Foundation-funded Research Experiences for Undergraduates programs. The program, “REU Site: Undergraduate Research Experience in Collaborative Data Visualization Applications,” is led by Dr. Wole Oyekoya of Clemson Computing and Information Technology’s Cyberinfrastructure Technology Integration group and involves... Continue Reading Russell Kaurloto to become Clemson CIO CLEMSON – Successful technology leaders understand changing behaviors and organizational cultures and create solutions to meet those needs. The lightning fast evolution of technology that we live with today is driven predominantly by the changes in individual, group and organizational behaviors, according to information technology (IT) visionary Russell Kaurloto. Kaurloto will bring his vision, knowledge and more than 35 years of IT experience to Clemson... Continue Reading From laundry to virtual reality, IT Student Advisory Board wraps another successful year The Information Technology Student Advisory Board (ITSAB) delivered an extremely successful 2016-17, funding over a dozen technology projects to benefit Clemson University students. “This year’s IT Student Advisory Board was incredibly successful,” said Dory Askins, Chair of this year’s ITSAB. “Comprised of 12 students, freshmen to seniors, Undergraduate Student Government, and other students, the board covered a huge area of campus. ITSAB can touch every... Continue Reading Apple Education expert to speak at Center of Excellence “Everyone Can Code” event [caption id="attachment_12075" align="alignright" width="300"] The Center of Excellence at CCIT will hold an "Everyone Can Code" focus event on Thursday, June 8.[/caption] The Center of Excellence at CCIT will hold a focus event on Apple’s “Everyone Can Code” initiative on Thursday, June 8, from 10 a.m. to noon at the Education Media Center in 212 Tillman Hall. Apple Education Development Executive Joel Davies will be the... Continue Reading Mandatory Password Reset on Wednesday, April 26 In an effort to ensure the security and integrity of access to Clemson's information technology environment, CCIT will be requiring everyone to change their passwords effective Wednesday, April 26. There is no active cybersecurity threat that necessitates this action, but in light of previous phishing attacks we have a concern that some accounts may have been compromised, but held in waiting for a later... Continue Reading CCIT planning H: and M: drive group storage upgrade Over the next several months, CCIT will upgrade the H: and M: drive space used to share documents for departments. The upgrade will make the system more reliable with newer technology and will affect Clemson employees who access this drive space. CCIT will contact each department to schedule its move date, but note that on the morning of the data move, extra support personnel in... Continue Reading Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies collaborates to build interactive 3D campus database Jonathan O’Brien knows there are more than 27,000 trees on the Clemson University campus because he counted them during the summer as an intern for the Center for Geospatial Technologies basemap project, a database of Clemson geospatial information open to the public. “The overall goal of the basemap is to collect as much data about campus as we possibly can, using whatever technology is at... Continue Reading Creativity contests give students chances to shine [caption id="attachment_11554" align="alignright" width="206"] Click to enlarge[/caption] Clemson students and employees will have several chances to show off their creativity over the next coming weeks, as Campus MovieFest and an Adobe Creative Jam visit Clemson University. Campus MovieFest, held from Monday, February 13, to Monday, February 20, challenges teams of students to make one film in less than a week. CMF will provide everything, from high-end cameras... Continue Reading Clemson Visualization accepting applications for undergraduate research program Clemson Visualization is seeking application's for this summer's "REU: Research Experience for Undergraduates in Collaborative Data Visualization Applications" program. REU provides undergraduates the opportunity to work with research/science collaborators, visualization mentors and fellow students to learn more about visualization and the role it plays in discovery and analysis. Research areas include: computer science, genetics and biochemistry, geophysics, sociology, molecular modeling and simulation, inorganic chemistry, social... Continue Reading Office of Information Security to sponsor Shred Bowl Clemson’s Office of Information Security is sponsoring the 4th annual Shred Bowl on Wednesday, November 16th, from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the Littlejohn Coliseum’s North Lot. Shredding materials containing personal or sensitive information can help to combat the ever-growing problem of identity theft. This event is free and open to the public, and will be a... Continue Reading Clemson University part of NSF-funded consortium for advancing research computing practices CLEMSON – The National Science Foundation has awarded a consortium of 28 universities, led by Clemson University, a $750,000 grant to fund a Research Coordination Network to set up a national forum for the exchange and dissemination of best practices, expertise, and technologies to enable the advancement of campus-based research computing activities. The project, titled “RCN: Advancing Research and Education Through a National Network of Campus... Continue Reading Clemson alumnus to discuss Stampede, Exascale computing Dr. Dan Stanzione, the Executive Director of the Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC) at The University of Texas at Austin, will speak on "Many Core Computing at Exascale: A Hidden Software Crisis?" at Clemson University's Watt Family Innovation Center Auditorium on Friday, September 30 from 11 a.m. to noon. The Stampede System at the Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC) at the University of Texas at Austin is the... Continue Reading CCIT unveils new website You gave your input and CCIT listened. With your feedback, CCIT has revamped its website. Following a beta phase that included helpful feedback from a wide range of users, the new site aims to connect the Clemson community with support, services, news, information, training and research resources. The “old” site will still be temporarily available to ensure a smooth transition while users update their bookmarks. We encourage... Continue Reading Adobe, Clemson map future of partnership on campus The partnership between Adobe and Clemson University took another step forward last week when representatives from Adobe met with faculty, CCIT and athletics staff on campus to collaborate on future of creative technology on campus. “The adoption and use of Adobe tools at Clemson along with the Adobe Digital Studio creativity space has been remarkable,” said Keith Spencer, Senior Customer Success Manager for Adobe Education. “The... Continue Reading Clemson Visualization uses cutting-edge technology, virtual reality to give researchers insight into data Rapid technological advances have given researchers access to more data than ever before, and Clemson University’s Advanced Visualization group wants to give those researchers better insight into their data using cutting-edge equipment and high-performance visualization. “Visualization is the ability to be able to see your data, to actually see what’s happening within your data,” said Dr. Oyewole (Wole) Oyekoya, Director of the Advanced Visualization group.... Continue Reading #CCITHelps – Julia Barnes Julia Barnes, a graduate student in Clemson University's College of Education, loves the CCIT Support Center. "I just come up here, hand it to the people behind the desk and magically it's fixed. And it doesn't cost me a penny!" To see more of why Julia loves CCIT, click the video below... Continue Reading Recommended laptops now available Each year CCIT develops a list a recommended laptops for incoming students based on current technology standards and the input of various colleges and departments. This year we will be offering one Dell model, four Lenovo models, and four Apple models. You can find detailed specifications on the recommended models here. You can also find links on how and where to purchase here (with more information available on the left sidebar)... Continue Reading Clemson cybersecurity team wins state competition CLEMSON — CU Cyber, the Clemson University competitive cybersecurity team, won first place at the recent Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition at Trident Technical College in Charleston. Team captain MacKenzie Binns also earned MVP honors as the team took home its third title in four years. “I was very proud of the team and their performance bouncing back from last year in which many were rookies,”... Continue Reading Students will gain cybersecurity skills in new Clemson center CLEMSON — It’s nearly impossible to watch the news or read the front page without seeing a story about cybersecurity. Hacking, data breaches and constant threats to networks and services have created a need for trained experts in a rapidly growing field, and Clemson University’s new Cybersecurity Operations Center (CSOC) in Barre Hall will help create the cybersecurity professionals of the future. “Clemson has quite... Continue Reading Clemson partners with southern universities in National Science Foundation Big Data Hubs program CLEMSON — Recent advances in technology have created mountains of data that can be collected, sorted and mined to address complex issues facing society. This data deluge — called “Big Data” — has challenged researchers at Clemson University and elsewhere to decipher the growing information in a meaningful way. In response, the National Science Foundation (NSF) unveiled the Big Data Regional Innovation Hubs (BD Hubs)... Continue Reading Clemson University’s new Adobe Digital Studio sparks creativity, collaboration CLEMSON — The opening of a new digital studio in Clemson University’s R.M. Cooper Library moves the school forward as a flagship institution for developing new applications for digital publishing and content creation. “The opening of the Adobe Digital Studio, truly a ‘maker space’ for digital creativity, is a landmark event for Clemson,” said Jim Bottum, vice provost and chief information officer at Clemson. “The... Continue Reading Spirit Communications donates high-speed connectivity as part of South Carolina LightRail network CLEMSON — Spirit Communications has donated broadband services valued at $1.4 million to Clemson University, which will connect South Carolina’s premier research universities with a state-of-the-art fiber optic backbone. The gift allows Clemson University, the Medical University of South Carolina and the University of South Carolina access to the South Carolina LightRail (SCLR), a high-speed optical network. The access provides network connectivity for research and... Continue Reading Clemson receives $1.23 million technology gift from Big Switch Networks CLEMSON — Clemson University’s complex computer network will be more manageable with a $1.23 million gift of networking technology from Big Switch Networks. Big Switch Networks, of Santa Clara, Calif., is a leader in developing software-defined networking technology, with roots in the original Stanford research team that invented Software Defined Networking (SDN). The company is widely considered to be one of the original pioneers of SDN... Continue Reading Clemson researchers and IT scientists team up to tackle Big Data While researchers at Clemson University have recently announced an array of breakthroughs in agricultural and life sciences, the size of the data sets they are now using to facilitate these achievements is like a mountain compared to a molehill in regard to what was available just a few years ago. But as the amount of “Big Data” being generated and shared throughout the scientific community... Continue Reading Supercomputers give universities a competitive edge, researchers find Researchers have long believed that supercomputers give universities a competitive edge in scientific research, but now they have some hard data showing it’s true. A Clemson University team found that universities with locally available supercomputers were more efficient in producing research in critical fields than universities that lacked supercomputers... Continue Reading Supercomputer speeds up genetics research at Clemson The next time you find yourself looking for a needle in a haystack, you might want to make friends with someone who can hook you up to a supercomputer. In the time it will take you to examine the first stem, the computer will have sorted through the entire stack, found the needle and returned everything to its original condition, neat as can be. It... Continue Reading Clemson supercomputers ranked in top 5 fastest at public universities CLEMSON — Clemson University’s Palmetto Cluster once again ranked among the top five fastest supercomputers at public universities in the United States in the latest Top500 list released this week at the annual International Supercomputing Conference in Leipzig, Germany. The biannual Top500 list is a ranking of the top 500 fastest supercomputers across the globe, including those from national laboratories, corporations, universities and government agencies.... Continue Reading Kevin McKenzie is keeping you safe online Safety has always been a priority on Clemson’s campus; however, safety goes beyond simple physical well-being. Online privacy, personal information and virtual safety are vital parts to security that people like Kevin McKenzie are working every day to protect. McKenzie fights for the information security of Clemson users’ by stopping potential threats from stealing accounts and personal information. McKenzie is Clemson’s chief information security officer... Continue Reading UPIC — The experience of an internship, right here on campus Josh Groppe likes to build apps. But not just any apps, apps with a purpose, apps that will provide something valuable to the user. The past year and a half, he’s had a chance to do just that for Clemson. “I wanted to continue to learn about mobile app development, and I love Clemson. This internship allowed me to bring two of my passions together,” said... Continue Reading Clemson receives $5.3M to broaden cyberinfrastructure education, outreach CLEMSON — The National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded Clemson University a $5.3 million grant to enable a national network of Advanced Cyberinfrastructure Research and Education Facilitators (ACI-REFs) to broaden the impact of advanced computing resources at campuses across the country. Led by Clemson Chief Information Officer Jim Bottum as principal investigator, Barr von Oehsen will serve as the science and outreach lead, Jim Pepin... Continue Reading AWS Datapalooza ... Continue Reading Notices Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Students Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Faculty and Staff New Student Laptop Models Available for 2022-2023 Adobe Software is now available using your Clemson login CCIT Chat Support is now Available Previous CCIT Home News Popular Chat Now With Support Quick Links Get Help New To Clemson Safe Computing Password Reset my.Clemson Palmetto Cluster System Status View Status Page Skip Twitter Feed Follow @ClemsonIT CCIT @ClemsonIT Kaltura training sessions begin today! Learn the basics of Clemson's new video platform in the first live session at 1 p.m.! blogs.clemso… pic.twitter.… 1:16 pm · May 16, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Congratulations to CU Cyber on another victory at the Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition—their seventh in 10 years! news.clemson… 2:13 pm · May 12, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT The UPIC Program has been extremely rewarding for CCIT, both for students and mentors. We are thankful for @ClemsonCCPD and all the student interns who've participated! twitter.com/… 6:41 pm · May 5, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT When Ben asks us to come up with a Star Wars Day tweet pic.twitter.… 3:35 pm · May 4, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Want to learn more about Kaltura, Clemson's new video hosting platform? Don't miss these upcoming training opportunities from @ClemsonOnline! Find everything you need to get started at clemson.edu/… pic.twitter.… 3:27 pm · May 3, 2022 Skip to Twitter Feed Start Skip Instagram Feed Follow ccit_clemson ccit_clemson Meet Emily👋⁣ ⁣ Emily is from Long Island, N Meet Kaitlyn👋⁣ ⁣ Kaitlyn is from Pembroke P Meet our CCIT Student Workers!👋⁣ ⁣ Isabella CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of phishing⚠️ Phishing is a type of soc CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of vishing⚠️ Vishing occurs when a cybe In a male-dominated industry, women continue to th Make sure you're ready when phone calls will no lo Skip to Instagram Feed Start Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology