Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Support Get Help Incoming Students Username, Password, and CUID Email Setting Up Your Laptop Apple Laptop Setup Windows Laptop Setup Clemson Purchased Windows Setup NOT Clemson Purchased Windows Setup More Info and Contacts Parents’ Information New Faculty & Staff Current Students Computer Labs Lab Ad Request Email and Accounts Get Connected Wireless Ethernet (Wired) Telecommunications IT Training Instructor-led Training Online Virtual Training Custom Training Consulting Laptops Recommended Laptops for 2022-2023 Purchasing Tips & Tricks Clemson Computer Store Setting Up Your Laptop Printing & Plotting PaperCut 101 Locations Request a Refund Safe Computing Software Adobe Creative Cloud AWS Educate Program Grammarly Premium Sales & Purchasing Software Licenses Individual Licenses Web Downloads Student Organizations Kaltura Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Work for CCIT Application Current Faculty & Staff Audio-visual Technology Blended Learning Enabled Classrooms Classroom Technology Guides Classroom Technology Checklist Business Systems (CUBS) PeopleSoft Financials PeopleSoft HCM Email & Accounts LISTSERV: Barebones Guide for List Owners Email Lists Get Connected Wireless Hardware & Laptops Hardware and Software Roadmap IT Training Instructor-led Training Online Virtual Training Custom Training Consulting Printing & Plotting Request Resources Safe Computing Software Adobe Creative Cloud AWS Educate Program Grammarly Premium Sales & Purchasing Requesting a Quote Software Licenses Individual Licenses Web Downloads Which Software Versions? Kronos Configuration iRoar Configuration Work At Home Software Tech Support Program Administrative Support Advancement Agriculture, Forestry, and Life Sciences Architecture, Arts, and Humanities Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Athletics Business Cooperative Extension Services (CES) Education Engineering Computing and Applied Sciences Libraries Media and Pub. Affairs Medicaid Information Technology Sevices Public Services and Agriculture (PSAG) Science Service Desk Student Affairs Greenville One University Facilities Kaltura Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Teaching Tools Retirees and Emeritus Software Licenses Alumni Knowledge Base Knowledge Base Login Home Support Current Students Printing & Plotting Printing & Plotting Mac Windows Web Access iOS Android Print to any of our PaperCut stations from anywhere on campus! First download the print driver appropriate to your operating system by visiting download.clemson.edu. Send your job to the print queue: “StudentPrinting” (Employees use “EmployeePrinting” Visit any of our PaperCut printers on campus Swipe your card or log in via the touch panel Select your job from the list to be printed and click [Print] The PaperCut quota is provided at no cost to each undergraduate and graduate student per semester, reflecting the amounts shown below. You can use your quota to print or plot! PaperCut Quotas and Rates For students this quota is equivalent to 510 black-and-white printed pages or 25.5 square feet of plotting. To encourage saving paper and toner, double-sided (duplex) black-and-white print jobs are charged at half the cost. *Plotting charges are calculated on a square-foot basis of printed area. User Status PaperCut Quota B&W Prints Over Quota Color Prints Over Quota Plots Undergraduate and Graduate Students $25.50 $0.05/page (TigerStripe) $0.10/page (TigerStripe) $1.00/ft.2 Employee/Faculty N/A $0.05/page (TigerStripe) $0.10/page (TigerStripe) $1.00/ft.2 Plotting Plots may be submitted CCITPlotter and can be printed at various sizes up to a maximum of 36 inches in any one direction and practically unlimited in the other direction. All university affiliated users may submit jobs to plot queue CCITPlotter. Submitting to the plot queue will deduct funds from the user’s PaperCut quota and then from their TigerStripe account once the quota has been depleted. Employees will use CCITDEPTPlotter for departmentally charged items. Important If you incorrectly submit a plot or need to delete it from the queue for any reason, please call us immediately at (864) 656-4766. The user has no direct access to their plot once it has been submitted. If the plot that was submitted has already been printed, your account will be charged. Documentation The documentation contained herein serves as the definitive reference for printing on-campus. If you have a question and can’t find the answer here, please contact ithelp@clemson.edu or call (864) 656-3494. Contact The Printing & Plotting Helpdesk is located on the 2nd floor of the Cooper Library, just to the right of the main stairwell. Plotting hours are Monday – Friday, 8:00 AM – 6:00 PM. Hours of operation for Sunday are 1:00 PM – 6:00 PM. You can reach us via email at ithelp@clemson.edu, by phone/text at (864) 656-4766, or by chat via the widget in the bottom right corner of this webpage. Chat Now With Support Get Help (864) 656-3494 ITHelp@clemson.edu Live Online Chat Help Request Form Knowledge Base Browse Services System Status View Status Page Search Knowledge Base Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology