Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Home CCIT News Budget-friendly IT resources for faculty and staff Budget-friendly IT resources for faculty and staff Ryan Real, CCIT Communications & Marketing April 20, 2022 CCIT provides a wealth of services that can boost your professional and personal life as a Clemson employee. Check out these budget-friendly tools available to employees, from cutting-edge creative software to ways that help you stay safe online. Grammarly Premium Writing can be tough. Grammarly helps, offering suggestions to make your work—from emails to academic papers—error-free, concise and readable. Plus, Grammarly Premium (usually a $30 per month subscription) offers plagiarism detection, citation suggestions and checks against the Clemson University style guide. It’s free for all students and employees, just log in to Grammarly.com with your @clemson.edu email address. Learn more on our Grammarly Premium page. Adobe Creative Cloud Subscriptions to the Adobe Creative Cloud normally cost $50 per month, but you have access to all 20+ creative desktop and mobile apps as a part of the University’s IT fee. A subscription includes 32 Adobe applications, Photoshop, InDesign, Premiere Pro, After Effects, Lightroom and more. The Creative Cloud Library also lets you sync assets (like colors, brushes and images) between devices. You have access to two licenses, which means you can have one instance on your professional machine and one on your personal machine. Sign in to adobe.com using your @clemson.edu email address to get started. Microsoft Office 365 You also have complete access to Office 365 from Microsoft. You probably know about Word, Excel and PowerPoint, but have you made a survey in Forms? Automated a task or process in Flow? Organized a group in Teams? You can do all that and a lot more in Office 365, which also includes storage in OneDrive. Work on the same project from any device, all in the cloud. Current full-time employees at Clemson may install available software on personally owned machines for work-related purposes. Get started at 365.clemson.edu. Virtual Private Network CCIT offers a Virtual Private Network (VPN) that maintains a secure, private connection to the Clemson network from anywhere in the world. Connect to the VPN if you need access to the Clemson network for certain software while working at home, or if you need to send sensitive data from public wifi (like buying something online while you’re at a coffee shop or airport). You can connect to the VPN with your Clemson credentials from any of your devices, including your phone or tablet, with Cisco Anyconnect. Visit our Knowledge Base to learn more and get started. Cloud Storage Along with OneDrive, you have cloud storage options with Box and Google Drive. Box is great for sharing documents among a group or keeping research data safe, while Google Drive integrates with a Google environment across the web. All three are fantastic options that offer syncing services to automatically back up your data, which you should do regularly (be sure to only choose one sync option, though). Survey Tools In addition to Google Forms and Microsoft Forms, you also have access to Qualtrics, one of the most powerful survey tools on the planet. Thorough support documentation and walkthrough wizards help make creating surveys in Qualtrics easy, too. Read more on our Qualtrics page. Training Percipio provides free professional development opportunities for faculty, staff and students. Choose from a wide range of courses, audiobooks, certifications and more. Get started at clemson.percipio.com. Software You have a whole host of free and discounted software options at your fingertips. Check out our employee web downloads and individual software licenses on our website. Security Clemson faculty or staff computers purchased with University funds should be imaged and managed centrally by your IT Consultant. CCIT does not provide anti-virus software for home or personal computers, but CCIT’s Office of Information Security (OIS) recommends the following: macOS computers – Sophos Home Antivirus (Free Edition) provides real-time anti-virus, website filtering and protection, as well as remote management for up to 3 Windows or macOS devices per account. Windows computers – Microsoft’s Defender Security Center which is part of the Windows 10 operating system (OS). If you wish to have additional protection, or for systems with an OS older than Windows 10, we recommend Sophos Home Antivirus (Free Edition). Full Workstation Backup Did you know you have a budget-friendly option to back up your workstation? Code42 CrashPlan automatically stores your data in the cloud, creating a real-time backup with file versioning and unlimited, encrypted cloud storage. A $70 yearly license includes four devices. Learn more on our Code42 CrashPlan page. Hardware The Clemson Computer Store offers an array of products from Apple, Dell and Lenovo, and qualifying Clemson employees can take advantage of the Employee Computer Purchase Plan when purchasing a computer, tablets and accessories. Of course, if you have a question about any of these services—or anything else tech-related at Clemson—drop us a line or start a chat using the orange chat box on this page. Notices Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Students Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Faculty and Staff New Student Laptop Models Available for 2022-2023 Adobe Software is now available using your Clemson login CCIT Chat Support is now Available Previous CCIT Home News Popular Chat Now With Support Quick Links Get Help New To Clemson Safe Computing Password Reset my.Clemson Palmetto Cluster System Status View Status Page Skip Twitter Feed Follow @ClemsonIT CCIT @ClemsonIT Kaltura training sessions begin today! Learn the basics of Clemson's new video platform in the first live session at 1 p.m.! blogs.clemso… pic.twitter.… 1:16 pm · May 16, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Congratulations to CU Cyber on another victory at the Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition—their seventh in 10 years! news.clemson… 2:13 pm · May 12, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT The UPIC Program has been extremely rewarding for CCIT, both for students and mentors. We are thankful for @ClemsonCCPD and all the student interns who've participated! twitter.com/… 6:41 pm · May 5, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT When Ben asks us to come up with a Star Wars Day tweet pic.twitter.… 3:35 pm · May 4, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Want to learn more about Kaltura, Clemson's new video hosting platform? Don't miss these upcoming training opportunities from @ClemsonOnline! Find everything you need to get started at clemson.edu/… pic.twitter.… 3:27 pm · May 3, 2022 Skip to Twitter Feed Start Skip Instagram Feed Follow ccit_clemson ccit_clemson Meet Emily👋⁣ ⁣ Emily is from Long Island, N Meet Kaitlyn👋⁣ ⁣ Kaitlyn is from Pembroke P Meet our CCIT Student Workers!👋⁣ ⁣ Isabella CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of phishing⚠️ Phishing is a type of soc CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of vishing⚠️ Vishing occurs when a cybe In a male-dominated industry, women continue to th Make sure you're ready when phone calls will no lo Skip to Instagram Feed Start Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology