Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Home CCIT News Duo phone calls (“Call Me”) no longer accepted on Tuesday, March 29, 2022 Duo phone calls (“Call Me”) no longer accepted on Tuesday, March 29, 2022 Ryan Real, CCIT Communications Tuesday, March 8 CCIT and Clemson University are continually evaluating cybersecurity protocols and practices to ensure the safety of Clemson users and systems. As part of this, we have recently begun making changes to many of our Duo two-factor authentication practices to enhance security. A major upcoming change in our practice includes the removal of the Duo phone call (“Call Me”) option to authenticate when logging into ANY Clemson system beginning on Tuesday, March 29. Both currently and after this date, users can still use the Duo Mobile app’s “Send Me a Push” option, the SMS (text message) option, or a hardware token (like YubiKey) to verify their identity. Due to the end-to-end encryption and stability of the Duo Mobile app, we strongly recommend the push option. If your phone is not receiving push messages properly, please visit 2fa.clemson.edu to reactivate your device. As a reminder to the community, below is a recap of recent changes we have already made in recent weeks to enhance the level of security associated with two-factor authentication using Duo: February 9: Duo phone call prompt changed to “1 to approve, 9 to deny” February 9: Duo Mobile Passcode removal from all Clemson systems and applications February 21: Duo phone call removal from CUapps (Citrix) and SecureVDI March 3: Duo phone call removal from Clemson Virtual Private Network (VPN) As a reminder, please do not accept any Duo authentication requests you did not just initiate yourself. To reactivate push messages on your phone or manage your preferred authentication methods, please visit 2fa.clemson.edu. If you have questions or need assistance – including if today your only method of authenticating is use of Duo Call Me (telephone option) and will now need a hardware token device to authenticate – please contact the CCIT Support Center at (864) 656-3494. Notices Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Students Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Faculty and Staff New Student Laptop Models Available for 2022-2023 Adobe Software is now available using your Clemson login CCIT Chat Support is now Available Previous CCIT Home News Popular Chat Now With Support Quick Links Get Help New To Clemson Safe Computing Password Reset my.Clemson Palmetto Cluster System Status View Status Page Skip Twitter Feed Follow @ClemsonIT CCIT @ClemsonIT Kaltura training sessions begin today! Learn the basics of Clemson's new video platform in the first live session at 1 p.m.! blogs.clemso… pic.twitter.… 1:16 pm · May 16, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Congratulations to CU Cyber on another victory at the Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition—their seventh in 10 years! news.clemson… 2:13 pm · May 12, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT The UPIC Program has been extremely rewarding for CCIT, both for students and mentors. We are thankful for @ClemsonCCPD and all the student interns who've participated! twitter.com/… 6:41 pm · May 5, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT When Ben asks us to come up with a Star Wars Day tweet pic.twitter.… 3:35 pm · May 4, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Want to learn more about Kaltura, Clemson's new video hosting platform? Don't miss these upcoming training opportunities from @ClemsonOnline! Find everything you need to get started at clemson.edu/… pic.twitter.… 3:27 pm · May 3, 2022 Skip to Twitter Feed Start Skip Instagram Feed Follow ccit_clemson ccit_clemson Meet Emily👋⁣ ⁣ Emily is from Long Island, N Meet Kaitlyn👋⁣ ⁣ Kaitlyn is from Pembroke P Meet our CCIT Student Workers!👋⁣ ⁣ Isabella CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of phishing⚠️ Phishing is a type of soc CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of vishing⚠️ Vishing occurs when a cybe In a male-dominated industry, women continue to th Make sure you're ready when phone calls will no lo Skip to Instagram Feed Start Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology