Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Support Get Help Incoming Students Username, Password, and CUID Email Setting Up Your Laptop Apple Laptop Setup Windows Laptop Setup Clemson Purchased Windows Setup NOT Clemson Purchased Windows Setup More Info and Contacts Parents’ Information New Faculty & Staff Current Students Computer Labs Lab Ad Request Email and Accounts Get Connected Wireless Ethernet (Wired) Telecommunications IT Training Instructor-led Training Online Virtual Training Custom Training Consulting Laptops Recommended Laptops for 2022-2023 Purchasing Tips & Tricks Clemson Computer Store Setting Up Your Laptop Printing & Plotting PaperCut 101 Locations Request a Refund Safe Computing Software Adobe Creative Cloud AWS Educate Program Grammarly Premium Sales & Purchasing Software Licenses Individual Licenses Web Downloads Student Organizations Kaltura Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Work for CCIT Application Current Faculty & Staff Audio-visual Technology Blended Learning Enabled Classrooms Classroom Technology Guides Classroom Technology Checklist Business Systems (CUBS) PeopleSoft Financials PeopleSoft HCM Email & Accounts LISTSERV: Barebones Guide for List Owners Email Lists Get Connected Wireless Hardware & Laptops Hardware and Software Roadmap IT Training Instructor-led Training Online Virtual Training Custom Training Consulting Printing & Plotting Request Resources Safe Computing Software Adobe Creative Cloud AWS Educate Program Grammarly Premium Sales & Purchasing Requesting a Quote Software Licenses Individual Licenses Web Downloads Which Software Versions? Kronos Configuration iRoar Configuration Work At Home Software Tech Support Program Administrative Support Advancement Agriculture, Forestry, and Life Sciences Architecture, Arts, and Humanities Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Athletics Business Cooperative Extension Services (CES) Education Engineering Computing and Applied Sciences Libraries Media and Pub. Affairs Medicaid Information Technology Sevices Public Services and Agriculture (PSAG) Science Service Desk Student Affairs Greenville One University Facilities Kaltura Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Teaching Tools Retirees and Emeritus Software Licenses Alumni Knowledge Base Knowledge Base Login Home Support Current Students Software Web Downloads Web Downloads Click here to download Alertus Desktop! Mac or Windows Software Installer Apps Windows Click here to download the Company Portal for Windows. This application can be used to download and install software like eduroam wireless, Microsoft Office, and Matlab onto your Windows laptop or desktop. Mac Click here to access the CCIT Mac installers which can be used to setup an eduroam wifi connection and to install various applications. There is also an optional installer that will create a Boot Camp installation of the Windows operating system which will make your Mac a dual-boot system. Adobe Clemson is now licensed for the complete Adobe Creative Cloud – a suite of software that includes titles focused around photography, video, audio and design. The Creative Cloud includes access to the following software applications: Photoshop, Lightroom, Illustrator, InDesign, Muse, Edge Animate, Dreamweaver, Edge Web Fonts, Edge Reflow, Edge Code, Edge Inspect, Flash Pro, Premier Pro, After Effects, Audition, Acrobat and more. Adobe Creative Cloud is available to students, faculty, and staff. For detailed instructions on downloading and installing Creative Cloud, click here. If you are having an issue with your activation, please follow this link and Adobe will contact you directly to resolve the issue: https://helpx.adobe.com/contact.html Azure Dev Tools for Teaching Azure Dev Tools for Teaching is a Microsoft program to provide students with software design and development tools at no charge (similar programs to this used to include Microsoft Dreamspark and Microsoft IMAGINE). Microsoft software licensed under the Azure program is available for students and faculty that use this software for educational purposes. Previously students would need to be part of a STEM program and request an account for Microsoft Imagine/Dreamspark. This is no longer the case as Microsoft has changed their service. Now all students (not just STEM) have access to Azure for Students. There are instructions for how to access software in Azure Dev Tools for Teaching here. You can access your account here. Other Software For a full list of software, including titles not listed here, click here. Alertus Desktop Mac Windows Alertus is a mass communication tool that is used to alert people in times of crisis by utilizing Clemson’s computer network. Camtasia Mac Windows Camtasia is a cross-platform application that lets you combine audio and visual media with a PowerPoint. You can make a video recording of your PPT with your audio/video embedded into the PowerPoint. Publish the video in any video format (WMV, Flash, MP4). Camtasia Studio is a video-based screen capturing software program. It is analogous to using a video camera to record your screen. However, unlike using a video camera, the software is installed on your computer, so your screen captures are directly recorded to a digital video format with higher quality audio. Cisco Meeting App Mac Windows Cisco Meeting is a cross-platform application that allows Clemson employees to communicate by video or audio call from a PC, Mac, or smart phone. Multiple people can join a call space to collaborate real-time locally or across the internet. Meeting invites can be sent out to anyone by email. Linux/Unix users can access the Clemson Meeting Web portal here Clemson Meeting Portal. Employees should automatically have access and can login with their Clemson login in the username@clemson.edu format. If you have difficulty connecting to the system, please email ITHELP@clemson.edu to have an account created for you. Citrix Workspace Mac Windows Citrix provides you access to software you need for your coursework from any device, at any time, from anywhere. To install Citrix Workspace on other devices or operating systems, Click Here. Eduroam Mac Windows Secure, world-wide roaming access service developed for the international research and education community. Eduroam allows students, researchers and staff from participating institutions to obtain Internet connectivity across home campuses and when visiting other participating institutions by simply opening their laptop or having the network ID on their mobile device. FTP Mac Windows FTP stands for File Transfer Protocol. Using an FTP client is a method to upload, download, and manage files on our file storage servers. Fusion Mac Windows Fusion is the ultimate accessibility tool for schools, agencies, training centers, and businesses where individuals with vision loss are served. Fusion provides the best of both worlds – ZoomText® , with its screen magnification and visual enhancements for screen viewing ease, coupled with the power and speed of JAWS® for screen reading functionality. A single installer and one license gives you access to both ZoomText and JAWS individually, or together when run as the combined solution – Fusion. Host Explorer Mac Windows Full featured PC-to-host and Web-to-host terminal emulation solution, including IBM Mainframes, AS/400s, UNIX and Linux systems. Emulating TN3270E, TN5250E, and Telnet data streams, HostExplorer seamlessly integrates into any networking environment. JMP Mac Windows (Full Install) Windows (Renewal Only) JMP is software focused on exploratory analytics, whereby users investigate and explore data, rather than to confirm a hypothesis. For issues with JMP licensing, click here for Windows issues and click here for Mac issues. Matlab Mac Windows Matlab is a multi-paradigm numerical computing environment and fourth-generation programming language. Developed by MathWorks, MATLAB allows matrix manipulations, plotting of functions and data, implementation of algorithms, creation of user interfaces, and interfacing with programs written in other languages, including C, C++, Java, Fortran and Python. A list of tool boxes is available here and instructions on how to activate are here. Microsoft Office Mac Windows (32-bit) Windows (64-bit) The versions available here are Microsoft Office 365 for Windows and Mac. Microsoft Office is a set of interrelated desktop applications, servers and services, collectively referred to as an office suite, for the Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X operating systems. This includes applications such as Word, Excel, Powerpoint. If the above links for installation do not install correctly, you can also install by going to The Office 365 website PaperCut Printers Mac Windows (install file) Windows (instructions) Papercut is Clemson University's replacement for PawPrints/Pharos (student printing) and iPrint (employee printing) as of May 24, 2021. For instructions, see the links above. PawPrints Printers (Pharos) PawPrints/Pharos was Clemson University's previous solution for student printing, discontinued as of May 24, 2021. For information on how to print with the new printing system (Papercut), please see the above entry. Read & Write Gold Mac Windows Read & Write literacy software solutions for the Desktop, Cloud, iPad and and Android help struggling readers and writers, students with learning disabilities, and English Language Learners access the support tools they need at school, work, or home. Read & Write ensures every learner has the tools necessary to reach their potential, build confidence and independence, and succeed. Respondus Lockdown Browser Information and Downloads The Respondus LockDown Browser is a secure browser that allows teachers to administer tests and quizzes on Canvas while also preventing students from printing, copying, going to another URL, or accessing other applications. Canvas tests that require LockDown Browser cannot be taken with a standard web browser. For instructions on how to use Respondus Lockdown Browser, refer to the link above. You can find Downloads in one of the tabs at the bottom of the page. SPSS Statistics Mac Windows This is the SPSS installation media for students and employees. Both have acccess to SPSS via the network license free of charge. SSH Mac Windows (32-bit) Windows (64-bit) An SSH client is a software program which uses the secure shell protocol to connect to a remote computer. WinRAR Mac Windows WinRAR is a powerful archive manager. It can backup your data and reduce the size of email attachments, decompress RAR, ZIP and other files downloaded from Internet and create new archives in RAR and ZIP file format. VPN Mac Windows VPN stands for Virtual Private Network and refers to a set of software and hardware that enable your computer to transparently connect to a remote network as if you were physically attached to that network. WebEx Information and Downloads WebEx provides a video conferencing space along with various collaboration tools that can be used to facilitate lectures or office hours. WebEx recordings are stored in the cloud and include auto-captions. For instructions on how to use WebEx, refer to the link above. You can find Downloads in one of the tabs at the bottom of the page. Zoom Information and Downloads Zoom is a web conferencing service that allows instructors to conduct synchronous, interactive class sessions with students remotely. Share video and your computer screen to lecture and explain course content. Interact with students through annotations, breakout rooms, poll questions, and more. Zoom also allows you to record lectures for students to review later. At this time, the pilot of Zoom has been extended to Clemson Faculty and Staff for use at home or in office. To access a licensed account, login at https://clemson.zoom.us with your Clemson Credentials. Zoom accounts can be used with the Canvas integration to create and host meetings. For instructions on how to use Zoom, refer to the link above. You can find Downloads in one of the tabs at the bottom of the page. Other Software titles can be found on the mapped network drive: \\software.clemson.edu\software Questions? Email ithelp@clemson.edu Chat Now With Support Get Help (864) 656-3494 ITHelp@clemson.edu Live Online Chat Help Request Form Knowledge Base Browse Services System Status View Status Page Search Knowledge Base Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology