Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research CCIT provides a wealth of services that can boost your professional and personal life as a Clemson employee. Check out these budget-friendly tools available to employees, from cutting-edge creative software to ways that help you stay safe online. Get Help News CCIT This Week: Phone spoofing and gift card scams, Zoom features, and more Automatically forwarding emails may cause delivery problems for users Budget-friendly IT resources for faculty and staff URL rewrite policy implemented for employee email Duo phone calls (“Call Me”) no longer accepted on Tuesday, March 29, 2022 More On CCIT News Page Notices Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Students Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Faculty and Staff New Student Laptop Models Available for 2022-2023 Adobe Software is now available using your Clemson login CCIT Chat Support is now Available Popular Pages Email iRoar my.Clemson Canvas Software Palmetto HPC Knowledge Base CU Apps Wireless Printing More Popular Pages Chat Now With Support Quick Links Get Help New To Clemson Safe Computing Password Reset my.Clemson Palmetto Cluster System Status View Status Page Skip Twitter Feed Follow @ClemsonIT CCIT @ClemsonIT Kaltura training sessions begin today! Learn the basics of Clemson's new video platform in the first live session at 1 p.m.! blogs.clemso… pic.twitter.… 1:16 pm · May 16, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Congratulations to CU Cyber on another victory at the Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition—their seventh in 10 years! news.clemson… 2:13 pm · May 12, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT The UPIC Program has been extremely rewarding for CCIT, both for students and mentors. We are thankful for @ClemsonCCPD and all the student interns who've participated! twitter.com/… 6:41 pm · May 5, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT When Ben asks us to come up with a Star Wars Day tweet pic.twitter.… 3:35 pm · May 4, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Want to learn more about Kaltura, Clemson's new video hosting platform? Don't miss these upcoming training opportunities from @ClemsonOnline! Find everything you need to get started at clemson.edu/… pic.twitter.… 3:27 pm · May 3, 2022 Skip to Twitter Feed Start Skip Instagram Feed Follow ccit_clemson ccit_clemson Meet Emily👋⁣ ⁣ Emily is from Long Island, N Meet Kaitlyn👋⁣ ⁣ Kaitlyn is from Pembroke P Meet our CCIT Student Workers!👋⁣ ⁣ Isabella CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of phishing⚠️ Phishing is a type of soc CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of vishing⚠️ Vishing occurs when a cybe In a male-dominated industry, women continue to th Make sure you're ready when phone calls will no lo Skip to Instagram Feed Start Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology