Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Home Notices Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Faculty and Staff Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Faculty and Staff CCIT PR, July 21, 2021 Welcome back! As the fall semester begins, we’d like to update you with a few notes about CCIT services. Classroom Tech CCIT upgraded a host of classrooms last year for remote teaching and learning. Currently, CCIT provides full audio-visual training and support for over 250 central classrooms throughout campus. Central classrooms have a standard set of equipment including a projector with HDMI, microphones and wireless capabilities. All classrooms are equipped with a camera and microphone that integrates with Zoom or Webex, along with a number of more advanced rooms equipped specifically for distance education courses or for courses with a lecture capture requirement. More information is available in our Classroom Technology guides. If you have not used the new technology or need a refresher, check out our Classroom Technology checklist. Don’t miss a “Meet Your Classroom Tech” session in August! Get familiar with your classroom’s tech in person, scheduled from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. on August 16 and 17 in Brackett Hall. Learn more at Clemson News. Employee Printing Network printers can be accessed by using PaperCut, which allows faculty, staff, and students to access campus printers. When you get a new computer that has been set up by our department, PaperCut is already installed and ready for your use. To learn more about PaperCut, visit our Faculty and Staff Printing page. TigerOne Mobile ID You can now add your TigerOne Mobile ID to your Android device. Open doors, buy food, check out books and a lot more right from your phone. Learn more on the TigerOne website. Training CCIT offers a library of live and on-demand online training through the Skillsoft Percipio platform. This service provides in-depth courseware, books and materials on a wide variety of topics, ranging from technology to marketing, all available at clemson.percipio.com. Research Computing Clemson has a world-class high performance and data-intensive computing environment known as Palmetto for faculty and students to use in their research and education pursuits. Assistance through CCIT’s CITI organization can help you best take advantage of these resources through one-on-one consultations and training. For more information on Palmetto and CITI, visit citi.clemson.edu. How can we help? Text, chat tech support available Every page at ccit.clemson.edu has an orange chat box that can connect you instantly with a CCIT Support Center representative during operating hours. In addition to calling the CCIT Support Center at (864) 656-3494, you can send a text to that same number and receive immediate assistance. Of course, you can always send an email to us at ITHELP@clemson.edu or visit us on the second floor of Cooper Library (COVID clearance required). For local support, please check out the listings at ccit.clemson.edu/support/faculty-staff/tech-support-program for the appropriate personnel that supports your college or department. Need a password reset? Avoid a call to the Support Center! If you’ve forgotten or would like to update your Clemson login password, you can reset it online by clicking ‘Password Reset’ in the Quick Links box on the CCIT homepage at ccit.clemson.edu. Google Workspace passwords can be reset by visiting clemson.edu/emailforwarding and clicking the link near the bottom of the page. Does your course require specific software packages? Many times, we can help get software to your students without a trip to the CCIT Support Center. Most Windows software can be installed through CCIT Software Center and most Mac software can be installed through our Mac software installer, both are available for download at download.clemson.edu. Information on specialty software can found on our Software Licenses page. Students can also access our new CUApps powered by Citrix to use a wide range of software in the cloud without having to install it to their computers. More information is available at clemson.edu/cuapps. Please email us at ITHELP@clemson.edu if there’s a specific software package needed for your course. Want to know about system maintenance and outages? CCIT maintains a status page with up-to-date information about issues and maintenance affecting university systems at status.ccit.clemson.edu. You may also subscribe to text or email notifications by clicking the “Subscribe” button at the top of the page, letting you know immediately about service interruptions to your preferred systems. You can also follow us on Twitter (@ClemsonIT) for timely updates. Notices Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Students Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Faculty and Staff New Student Laptop Models Available for 2022-2023 Adobe Software is now available using your Clemson login CCIT Chat Support is now Available Previous CCIT Home News Popular Chat Now With Support Quick Links Get Help New To Clemson Safe Computing Password Reset my.Clemson Palmetto Cluster System Status View Status Page Skip Twitter Feed Follow @ClemsonIT CCIT @ClemsonIT Kaltura training sessions begin today! Learn the basics of Clemson's new video platform in the first live session at 1 p.m.! blogs.clemso… pic.twitter.… 1:16 pm · May 16, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Congratulations to CU Cyber on another victory at the Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition—their seventh in 10 years! news.clemson… 2:13 pm · May 12, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT The UPIC Program has been extremely rewarding for CCIT, both for students and mentors. We are thankful for @ClemsonCCPD and all the student interns who've participated! twitter.com/… 6:41 pm · May 5, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT When Ben asks us to come up with a Star Wars Day tweet pic.twitter.… 3:35 pm · May 4, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Want to learn more about Kaltura, Clemson's new video hosting platform? Don't miss these upcoming training opportunities from @ClemsonOnline! Find everything you need to get started at clemson.edu/… pic.twitter.… 3:27 pm · May 3, 2022 Skip to Twitter Feed Start Skip Instagram Feed Follow ccit_clemson ccit_clemson Meet Emily👋⁣ ⁣ Emily is from Long Island, N Meet Kaitlyn👋⁣ ⁣ Kaitlyn is from Pembroke P Meet our CCIT Student Workers!👋⁣ ⁣ Isabella CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of phishing⚠️ Phishing is a type of soc CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of vishing⚠️ Vishing occurs when a cybe In a male-dominated industry, women continue to th Make sure you're ready when phone calls will no lo Skip to Instagram Feed Start Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology