Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research About About Our CIO Governance Academic Technology Council IT Student Advisory Board Funding Guidelines Clemson University Computational Advisory Team IT Vendor Management Policy Departments Communications Strategies & Sponsored Research Cyberinfrastructure Technology Integration Enterprise Systems & Applications and Medicaid IT Services Information Security Operations Center Infrastructure Services & Operations; Network Services & Telecommunications Internal Operations Project Management Office Space and Allocation Planning and Assessment Published Rates Customer Services Locations CCIT History Project Intranet Home About About Clemson Computing and Information Technology, or CCIT, provides a leading-edge integrated information environment integral to teaching, learning, and research. We are a formidable force for innovation, diverse in people, talents, expertise and breadth of function, collectively responsible for developing, steering and maintaining Clemson’s IT infrastructure. Our Leadership Brian D. Voss was named Vice President and Chief Information Officer in February 2022, removing the previous interim status from his hire on May 18, 2021. Voss brings broad and deep experience across the spectrum of higher education information technology, built through a 35-year career of achievements in IT leadership: strategic planning, user services, teaching and learning support, networks/ telecommunications, academic and research computing, and enterprise/university information systems. More about our CIO CCIT is the primary provider of computing resources and IT support for Clemson University. CCIT consists of several key functions reporting to the CIO with service operation and delivery also reporting. Operational services include Enterprise Systems and Applications, Customer Relations, Infrastructure Services and Operations, Cyberinfrastructure Technology Integration, and Medicaid IT Services. Key functional areas include Internal Operations, Information Security, and Communication Strategies and Sponsored Research. Within this framework, the groups that manage the various aspects of these areas leverage the common synergies and provide comprehensive solutions, to the benefit of faculty, students, and the greater user community. CCIT is committed to providing an integrated approach to high-performance computing environments and traditional computing. More about our Leadership Team Our Organization …includes nine departments, organized by IT discipline and grouped by function and target customer. Internal Operations Infrastructure Services & Operations Enterprise Systems & Applications Customer Relations Network Services & Telecommunications Cyberinfrastructure Technology Integration Medicaid IT Services Information Security Communications Strategies & Sponsored Research More about our Departments Our Locations …includes 15 addresses on and off campus. More about our Locations Quick Links Get Help New To Clemson Safe Computing Password Reset my.Clemson Palmetto Cluster Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology