Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Support Get Help Incoming Students Username, Password, and CUID Email Setting Up Your Laptop Apple Laptop Setup Windows Laptop Setup Clemson Purchased Windows Setup NOT Clemson Purchased Windows Setup More Info and Contacts Parents’ Information New Faculty & Staff Current Students Computer Labs Lab Ad Request Email and Accounts Get Connected Wireless Ethernet (Wired) Telecommunications IT Training Instructor-led Training Online Virtual Training Custom Training Consulting Laptops Recommended Laptops for 2022-2023 Purchasing Tips & Tricks Clemson Computer Store Setting Up Your Laptop Printing & Plotting PaperCut 101 Locations Request a Refund Safe Computing Software Adobe Creative Cloud AWS Educate Program Grammarly Premium Sales & Purchasing Software Licenses Individual Licenses Web Downloads Student Organizations Kaltura Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Work for CCIT Application Current Faculty & Staff Audio-visual Technology Blended Learning Enabled Classrooms Classroom Technology Guides Classroom Technology Checklist Business Systems (CUBS) PeopleSoft Financials PeopleSoft HCM Email & Accounts LISTSERV: Barebones Guide for List Owners Email Lists Get Connected Wireless Hardware & Laptops Hardware and Software Roadmap IT Training Instructor-led Training Online Virtual Training Custom Training Consulting Printing & Plotting Request Resources Safe Computing Software Adobe Creative Cloud AWS Educate Program Grammarly Premium Sales & Purchasing Requesting a Quote Software Licenses Individual Licenses Web Downloads Which Software Versions? Kronos Configuration iRoar Configuration Work At Home Software Tech Support Program Administrative Support Advancement Agriculture, Forestry, and Life Sciences Architecture, Arts, and Humanities Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Athletics Business Cooperative Extension Services (CES) Education Engineering Computing and Applied Sciences Libraries Media and Pub. Affairs Medicaid Information Technology Sevices Public Services and Agriculture (PSAG) Science Service Desk Student Affairs Greenville One University Facilities Kaltura Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Teaching Tools Retirees and Emeritus Software Licenses Alumni Knowledge Base Knowledge Base Login Home Support Current Students Get Connected Wireless Wireless Since 2013 Clemson has been using eduroam as our main wireless network. eduroam (short for education roaming) is a secure, world-wide roaming internet access service developed for the international research and education community. In addition to offering network access on-campus, this eduroam will enable you to use your Clemson login information to obtain wireless access to the internet at participating institutions around the world. Students and faculty from participating institutions can enjoy the same benefit when visiting Clemson. Eduroam service is currently available at more than 5,500 locations worldwide. How to connect: Be sure to sign-in to eduroam yourusername@clemson.edu and your Clemson password. Automatic Installers Mac Windows These automatic installers are the easiest way to configure your OS X or Windows computers to connect to eduroam. Manual Setup Documentation Mac Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10 Directions for users running into issues with the automatic installers or those that prefer to configure wireless settings manually. Mobile Devices iOS Android Clemson’s wireless infrastructure is capable of supporting WPA2-enterprise capable 802.11a/g/n devices. There is no scalable way to support mobile devices that do not support this standard. You can find documentation for even more mobile devices in our knowledge base HERE. You can also scan this QR code with your phone’s camera app or QR code reader to download the eduroam installer. ResMediaNet Most consumer electronics beyond computers and phones/tablets do not support the WPA2-Enterprise protocol needed to connect to eduroam. To meet the demand for wireless connectivity on devices like TVs, gaming consoles, streaming devices, etc. CCIT Network Services has rolled out a new wireless network named ResMediaNet which is now available across campus. In order to use ResMediaNet, you will need to register your device on the Clemson network. To do this you will need to find the wireless MAC address of your device. Instructions for finding the MAC address on some popular devices can be found below. Once you have your wireless MAC address, you will need to register it by following these steps: Go to http://netreg.clemson.edu Log in with your Clemson username and password Select Add Registration on the left of the screen Enter the wireless MAC Address of your device in the format XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX in the box labeled Hardware Address. (Instructions for finding the MAC address on some popular devices can be found below) Enter a Device Description Click I Agree at the bottom of the screen Once your device has been registered, find the wireless settings on your device and connect to the network named resmedianet using the password tigerpaw. Connecting will fail if you have not successfully registered your device following the steps above. Locations Thanks to recent wireless infrastructure upgrades, Resmedianet is now available all across campus. Finding your wireless MAC address Xbox One Press the Menu button on your controller Navigate to the Settings page Select Network Select Advanced Settings The MAC address will be listed next to Wireless MAC on the right side of the screen Playstation 4 Turn on your PS4 without a disk in the drive and wait for the menu to pop up Scroll over to the right to Settings Go down to Network Then down to View Connection Status From this area, we can get the WiFi MAC Address Nintendo WiiU From the Wii U Menu, select “System Settings” Using the left stick, select the Internet icon and press the A button Select View MAC Address and wait a moment for the MAC address to be displayed Apple TV From the main menu, select Settings Select About from the menu for the network information Here you can find the Wireless MAC Address Roku Go to the Home screen Go to Settings and then click Network Here you will find your Wireless MAC Address Blu-Ray Players The easiest way to find your device’s MAC address is to find the instructions on the manufacturer’s support website. A list of common manufacturers is below: Samsung: http://www.samsung.com/us/support/ LG: http://www.lg.com/us/support Sony: http://esupport.sony.com/ Panasonic: http://shop.panasonic.com/support/ Phillips: http://www.usa.philips.com/c-m/consumer-support Smart TVs Similar to blu-ray players, directions for finding your TV’s MAC address can usually be find in the owners manual from the manufacturer’s site: Samsung: http://www.samsung.com/us/support/ LG: http://www.lg.com/us/support Sony: http://esupport.sony.com/ Panasonic: http://shop.panasonic.com/support/ Phillips: http://www.usa.philips.com/c-m/consumer-support Unsupported Devices or Features Roku remote via phone feature is not support Chromecast is currently not supported Chat Now With Support Get Help (864) 656-3494 ITHelp@clemson.edu Live Online Chat Help Request Form Knowledge Base Browse Services System Status View Status Page Search Knowledge Base Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology