Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research About About Our CIO Governance Academic Technology Council IT Student Advisory Board Funding Guidelines Clemson University Computational Advisory Team IT Vendor Management Policy Departments Communications Strategies & Sponsored Research Cyberinfrastructure Technology Integration Enterprise Systems & Applications and Medicaid IT Services Information Security Operations Center Infrastructure Services & Operations; Network Services & Telecommunications Internal Operations Project Management Office Space and Allocation Planning and Assessment Published Rates Customer Services Locations CCIT History Project Intranet Home About Governance Governance CCIT has three standing advisory boards that serve to advise our direction on strategic technology issues. The Academic Technology Council (ATC) is commissioned by the Faculty Senate to be the official faculty IT advisory function, the IT Student Advisory Board (ITSAB) is the official student advisory body to the IT organization, and the Clemson University Computational Advisory Team (CU-CAT) advised CCIT on key issues around advanced computing. Academic Technology Council – Dr. Christopher Post, Chair The Academic Technology Council serves Clemson in several ways as it acts as the faculty advisory board for both Clemson Computing and Information Technology and Clemson Online. This group, made up of representatives from each of Clemson’s seven academic colleges and beyond, advocates for faculty interests on IT policies and projects. The ATC also initiates and participates in future-oriented IT-projects on learning and research, and helps to invent next generation learning programs and opportunities at Clemson. Moreover, the group’s primary goal is to be proactive, not reactive with regard to educational technology. IT Student Advisory Board – Mr. Brad Green, Chair The IT Student Advisory board is a governance group comprised of undergraduate and graduate students from across the colleges at Clemson University. The board’s main purpose is to provide feedback to the CIO and CCIT Senior Staff on business and strategic decisions, but we also have the unique opportunity to drive 10% of the student IT fees towards IT related projects and initiatives. In the past, this 10% has led to the funding of projects ranging from mobile development to the purchasing of new printers and other technologies in the library and academic buildings across campus. Clemson University Computational Advisory Team – Dr. Alex Feltus, Chair The Clemson University Computational Advisory Team (CU-CAT) is a research computing interface between faculty who use high-performance computing (HPC) resources and IT staff who design and maintain experimental and production HPC systems at Clemson. In this highly technical open discussion forum, faculty voices from multiple science domains mix with those from key corners of the HPC enterprise. In addition to advisory input, faculty vote on complex computing issues that affect the global CU research computing community including the approval of exceptional resource allocations. These allocation decisions ensure that special projects get done with minimal impact to the extensive user base of the Palmetto cluster. Quick Links Get Help New To Clemson Safe Computing Password Reset my.Clemson Palmetto Cluster Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology