Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Research Support About Palmetto News & Announcements Palmetto Guide Documentation Research Computing Training Purchase Palmetto Nodes/Storage New Users Research Support Team FAQs Home Research Support Research Support CCIT is integrally engaged in Clemson’s research community by virtue of the vital resources we provide to enable innovation. Our teams and infrastructure helps the Clemson community achieve its research goals. Cyberinfrastructure Technology Integration (CITI) is comprised of two teams that directly support and interact with the Clemson research and education community – the Advanced Computing & Data Science (ACDS) group and the Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies (GIS group), and the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure (ACI) group supports the infrastructure and systems engineering and architecture behind the Palmetto Cluster research computing environment. Advanced Computing & Data Science Group CITI is the front-facing team that supports all research that leverages the power of CCIT computing resources. The CITI team comprises a well-established, highly successful group of faculty and technical staff with an international reputation for leading research in areas such as high-performance computing, high-throughput computing, high-performance networking, data access/storage and interpretation, and software environments for cyber-enabled communities. More Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies (GIS Group) The Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies aims to build a community of interdisciplinary geospatial science practitioners through the support of research, teaching, and outreach activities using technologies that enable the collection, analysis, and application of geospatial data. The Center is dedicated to assisting faculty and students in the integration of geospatial technologies within their scholarly activities across all disciplines at Clemson University and building connections between academic, industrial, governmental and non-governmental institutions throughout the world. More Advanced Computing Infrastructure Group In 2007, the Advanced Computing Infrastructure (ACI) team was formed by Jim Bottum and Jim Pepin to install and maintain hardware, storage, and systems software, including job scheduling, for the newly acquired HPC cluster called “Palmetto”. The team has since expanded to provide hardware support for all research computing equipment located in the ITC datacenter, including the national “CloudLab” resource. The ACI team works closely with the CITI team to provide the best possible solutions for Clemson’s computational research faculty and students. More Get Started Need help learning about how computing can help your research? Getting started with research computing. Training Events Get started by attending one of our groups’ training sessions to learn more about how Clemson’s research computing and geospatial technologies can support and empower your research goals as well as your academic pursuits. Research Computing Training GIS Training Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology