Skip to Main Content A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Services Support About Cybersecurity Research Home Notices Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Students Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Students CCIT PR, Updated July 26, 2021 Welcome back! As the semester begins, we’d like to remind you of some tips to help you succeed this semester and beyond. PaperCut is your printing solution PaperCut has replaced PawPrints as Clemson University’s student printing and plotting solution. Effective May 24, students will no longer be able to print using PawPrints. PaperCut features a similar method of printing to PawPrints using your TigerOne card or mobile ID at an available printer, but you will need to install PaperCut if you plan on printing from your laptop or mobile device. Learn more and download updated installers at clemson.edu/papercut. TigerOne Mobile ID In addition to iOS, you can now add your TigerOne Mobile ID to your Android device. Open doors, buy food, check out books and more right from your phone. Learn more at clemson.edu/campus-life/tigerone Connect your streaming devices with ResMediaNet Unfortunately, most streaming devices like TVs and gaming consoles don’t support the WPA2-Enterprise security used by eduroam. Instead, you can use the resmedianet wireless network to connect your TVs, gaming consoles, Rokus, AppleTVs, etc. to wireless. Find out more at ccit.clemson.edu/wireless. How can we help? Need a password reset? Avoid a call to the Support Center! If you’ve forgotten or would like to update your Clemson login password, you can reset it online by clicking ‘Password Reset’ in the Quick Links box on the CCIT homepage at ccit.clemson.edu. Google Workspace passwords can be reset by visiting clemson.edu/emailforwarding and clicking the link near the bottom of the page. Need software? You can download and install licensed campus software without a trip to the CCIT Support Center! Find and download available software at download.clemson.edu. Information on specialty software can found under the “Current Students” section of ccit.clemson.edu/support. You can also access our new CUApps powered by Citrix to use a wide range of software in the cloud without having to install it to your computer. More information is available at clemson.edu/cuapps. Text, chat tech support available Every page at ccit.clemson.edu has an orange chat box that can connect you instantly with a CCIT Support Center representative during operating hours. In addition to calling the CCIT Support Center at (864) 656-3494, you can send a text to that same number and receive immediate assistance. Of course, you can always send an email to us at ITHELP@clemson.edu or visit us on the second floor of Cooper Library (COVID clearance required). Want to know about system maintenance and outages? CCIT maintains a status page with up-to-date information about issues and maintenance affecting university systems at status.ccit.clemson.edu. You may also subscribe to text or email notifications by clicking the “Subscribe” button at the top of the page, letting you know immediately about service interruptions to your preferred systems. You can also follow us on Twitter (@ClemsonIT) for timely updates. Notices Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Students Welcome Back: Important IT Updates for Faculty and Staff New Student Laptop Models Available for 2022-2023 Adobe Software is now available using your Clemson login CCIT Chat Support is now Available Previous CCIT Home News Popular Chat Now With Support Quick Links Get Help New To Clemson Safe Computing Password Reset my.Clemson Palmetto Cluster System Status View Status Page Skip Twitter Feed Follow @ClemsonIT CCIT @ClemsonIT Kaltura training sessions begin today! Learn the basics of Clemson's new video platform in the first live session at 1 p.m.! blogs.clemso… pic.twitter.… 1:16 pm · May 16, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Congratulations to CU Cyber on another victory at the Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition—their seventh in 10 years! news.clemson… 2:13 pm · May 12, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT The UPIC Program has been extremely rewarding for CCIT, both for students and mentors. We are thankful for @ClemsonCCPD and all the student interns who've participated! twitter.com/… 6:41 pm · May 5, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT When Ben asks us to come up with a Star Wars Day tweet pic.twitter.… 3:35 pm · May 4, 2022 CCIT @ClemsonIT Want to learn more about Kaltura, Clemson's new video hosting platform? Don't miss these upcoming training opportunities from @ClemsonOnline! Find everything you need to get started at clemson.edu/… pic.twitter.… 3:27 pm · May 3, 2022 Skip to Twitter Feed Start Skip Instagram Feed Follow ccit_clemson ccit_clemson Meet Emily👋⁣ ⁣ Emily is from Long Island, N Meet Kaitlyn👋⁣ ⁣ Kaitlyn is from Pembroke P Meet our CCIT Student Workers!👋⁣ ⁣ Isabella CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of phishing⚠️ Phishing is a type of soc CCIT Support Center is hiring student workers. See Beware of vishing⚠️ Vishing occurs when a cybe In a male-dominated industry, women continue to th Make sure you're ready when phone calls will no lo Skip to Instagram Feed Start Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, SC. All Rights Reserved. Website Technical Contact: Clemson Computing & Information Technology