Skip to main content Yale University Search form Yale Law School Center for the Study of Corporate Law Judge Ralph Winter '60 and YLS Prof. Alan Schwartz '67 at the 2009 Winter Lecture with U. Chicago Booth Prof. Steven N. Kaplan Audience at 2009 Raben Lecture with U. of Chicago Booth Prof. Luigi Zingales U. of Chicago Booth Prof. Luigi Zingales and YLS Prof. and Center Dir. Roberta Romano '80 at 2009 Raben Lecture U. of Chicago Booth Prof. Luigi Zingales and YLS Prof. and Center Dir. Roberta Romano '80 at 2009 Raben Lecture U. of Chicago Booth Prof. Steven N. Kaplan at the 2009 Winter Lecture YLS Profs. Alan Schwartz '64 and Henry Hansmann '74 at the 2009 Weil, Gotshal & Manges Roundtable YLS Profs. Alan Schwartz '64 and Henry Hansmann '74 at the 2009 Weil, Gotshal & Manges Roundtable Main Menu Sub Menu About the Center The Yale Law School Center for the Study of Corporate Law was established in 1999 following conversations between Robert Todd Lang ‘47 (In Memoriam) and then Dean Anthony T. Kronman ‘75. The wide-ranging objective of the Center is to enhance the quality of students’ educational experience and of faculty research in the business law area, by increasing exposure to and engagement with contemporary business law issues. The Center’s focus of study includes corporate law and the law of other nongovernmental organizations; the regulation of financial markets and intermediaries; the legal framework of finance, including the law of bankruptcy, corporate reorganization, and secured transactions; and antitrust law and the law of regulated industries. Center programs consist of lectures, roundtables, a workshop in law and finance, a colloquium series, an alumni breakfast program, panels and symposia, in which academics, government officials, and members of the bar and business community participate. The Center’s Director is Roberta Romano, Sterling Professor of Law; Nancy Liao is the John R. Raben/Sullivan & Cromwell Executive Director and Associate Research Scholar in Law. Contact Us. Web Accessibility. In Memoriam: Judge Ralph K. Winter ‘60 (1935-2020) “As a Yale law professor and federal appellate judge, Ralph Winter was a giant of American corporate law. From his seminal 1977 article defending state chartering of corporations as a ‘race to the top’ to his hundreds of finely crafted opinions, Judge Winter shaped corporate and securities law for nearly 60 years. For his generations of grateful students and law clerks, this modest and warm man was our beloved teacher, mentor and friend.” - Robert J. Giuffra, Jr. ’87, Chairman of the Center’s Board of Advisors, Co-Chair of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Partner in the Litigation Group, and former law clerk to Judge Winter. Top Home Upcoming Events Organization History of Business Law at Yale Activities Business Law Curriculum at Yale Joint Degrees Simeon E. Baldwin Award Working Papers Endowed Funds Related Links Yale Law School Yale University Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube