Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College-Conservatory of Music CCM right arrow down arrow Overview right arrow down arrow Performance Opportunities Facilities right arrow down arrow Corbett Center Dieterle Vocal Arts Center Mary Emery Hall Memorial Hall CCM Directory Why Cincinnati? Videos right arrow down arrow CCM OnStage Online Backstage at CCM CCM Showcases CCM Media Production Capstone Films CCM Next: World Premieres CCM's COVID Etude Project CCM Idea Lab CCM OnStage Archives Live Stream Village News right arrow down arrow Subscribe To CCM's E-Newsletter Share Your Story History Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Directions & Parking Areas of Study right arrow down arrow Majors and Programs Academic Units right arrow down arrow Acting right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Fine Arts Performance Opportunities Arts Administration right arrow down arrow Master of Arts Professional Experience Students and Alumni Frequently Asked Questions Choral Studies right arrow down arrow Dale Warland Archive Master of Music Doctor of Musical Arts Commercial Music Production right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Music Composition, Musicology and Theory right arrow down arrow Composition Music Theory Musicology Special Programs and Events Dance right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Fine Arts Performance Opportunities General Studies right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Arts Academic Minor Jazz Studies right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Music Master of Music Media Production right arrow down arrow Facilities Programs and Activities Bachelor of Fine Arts Academic Minor Courses Music Education right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Musical Theatre right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Fine Arts Performance Opportunities Audition Best Practices Opera/Voice right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Music Master of Music Doctor of Musical Arts Artist Diploma (Opera: Stage Directing) Artist Diploma (Opera: Coaching) Artist Diploma (Opera: Vocal Performance) Orchestral Studies right arrow down arrow Master of Music Doctor of Musical Arts Organ and Harpsichord right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Music (Harpsichord) Master of Music (Harpsichord) Doctor of Musical Arts (Harpsichord) Artist Diploma (Harpsichord) Bachelor of Music Master of Music (Organ) Doctor of Musical Arts (Organ) Artist Diploma (Organ) Piano right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Music Master of Music (Piano Performance) Master of Music (Collaborative Piano) Doctor of Musical Arts Artist Diploma Strings right arrow down arrow Classical Guitar Double Bass Harp Viola Violin Violoncello Faculty and Staff Theatre Design and Production right arrow down arrow Costume Design and Technology Lighting Design and Technology Make-up and Wig Design Sound Design Stage Design Props and Scenic Art Stage Management Technical Production Faculty and Staff Wind Studies right arrow down arrow Master of Music Doctor of Musical Arts Woodwinds Brass and Percussion right arrow down arrow Bassoon Clarinet Flute Horn Oboe Percussion Saxophone Trombone Trumpet Tuba and Euphonium Faculty and Staff Admissions & Aid right arrow down arrow CCM Admissions right arrow down arrow Application Procedures right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Application Instructions Graduate Application Instructions International Application Instructions Important Dates and Deadlines Pre-screenings, Auditions and Interviews Check My Application Status FAQ Financial Aid Fellowship Programs right arrow down arrow CSO/CCM Diversity Fellowship right arrow down arrow Meet The Fellows News Graduate Brass Quintet Fellowship Campus Visits Performances & Public Events right arrow down arrow Buy Tickets Public Lectures right arrow down arrow Past Events Directions & Parking Arts for All right arrow down arrow Summer at CCM right arrow down arrow Youth Programs Teen Programs Collegiate and Adult Programs Programs for the Community right arrow down arrow Talent for Hire Preparatory Programs right arrow down arrow Early Childhood Programs Dance right arrow down arrow Performance Companies Dance Classes Music right arrow down arrow Music Ensemble Programs Gino James DiMario Memorial Scholars Program Music Theory Theatre Arts right arrow down arrow Youth Theatre Arts Programs High School Theatre Arts Programs Registration and Policy Faculty and Staff Directions and Parking Classes for UC Students right arrow down arrow Arts Electives for UC Students Performance Opportunities for UC Students Alumni & Support right arrow down arrow Support CCM right arrow down arrow CCMpower right arrow down arrow Harmony Fund LINKS Membership Benefits Awards and Grants Student Membership Alumni Membership Meet the CCMpower Board Donate Events Thank You To Our Supporters Contact Resources Coronavirus Updates right arrow down arrow Return to Campus Plan Student FAQ Box Office FAQ Prep and Community Engagement FAQ Faculty/Staff FAQ UC College-Conservatory of Music » Performances & Public Events » Buy Tickets Set Navigation title in component Buy Tickets Public Lectures Past Events Directions & Parking Buy Tickets CCM offers free admission to many performances and public events throughout the academic year. Other events require purchased tickets, with ticket prices varying by event, venue and seat location. CCM Box Office Tickets for CCM's spring 2022 events are on sale now! Buy Tickets View Calendar of Ticketed Events View Ticketed Events By Genre Update On Public Events UC has updated its indoor masking policy to align with the CDC's recommendations for masking. Beginning on Saturday, March 12, all masking restrictions will be eliminated in all CCM spaces, so long as rates of hospitalization and transmissibility remain in the low-to-medium zones. This means masking will no longer be required in classrooms, rehearsals, performances, etc. for everyone — students, faculty, staff, campus visitors and audience members. Members of our community who prefer to continue to wear a mask when indoors or in close proximity with others for personal safety should continue to do so. Please continue to be sensitive and respectful to the needs of others as we work through this transition. Beginning on Thursday, March 31, 2022, CCM will also lift the 50% capacity limit in performance venues. Additional measures may be in place as conditions develop based on guidance from the CDC and UC's physician-led COVID response team. Visit the UC Public Health website and CCM's COVID-19 website for additional information and updates. We will continue to share updates and additional information online and in future installments of our Next OnStage email newsletter. Ticketed Events by Genre Ariel Quartet right arrow down arrow Ariel Quartet. Photo/provided by the Ariel Quartet. Opening Concert: 2022 CCM’s acclaimed String-Quartet-in-Residence opens its 2022 concert series with Béla Bartók’s penultimate quartet and W.A. Mozart’s String Quartet No. 15. ﻿ ﻿BARTÓK: String Quartet No. 5   ﻿W.A. MOZART: String Quartet No. 15 in D Minor, K. 421 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 22 Robert J. Werner Recital Hall Porat and Beethoven The ensemble closes its 2021-22 concert series at CCM with Matan Porat’s Four Ladino Songs, commissioned through CCM by Ann and Harry Santen, and Beethoven’s String Quartet No. 10. PORAT: Four Ladino Songs BEETHOVEN: String Quartet No. 10 in E-flat Major, Op. 74 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, March 29 Robert J. Werner Recital Hall Tickets are $29.50; student and group discounts available. Pricing is inclusive of all fees. Buy tickets online. Choral right arrow down arrow Photo by Andrew Higley/UC Creative Services. How to Go On CCM Chamber Choir Joe Miller, music director and conductor Dale Trumbore is a Los Angeles-based composer and writer whose music has been praised by the New York Times for its “soaring melodies and beguiling harmonies.” Her poignant work How To Go On is the cornerstone of this program, with other works by John Taverner, John Cage, Eric Whitacre and Jaakko Mantyjarvi. With this concert, we remember those whom we have recently lost. 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 23 Summit Country Day School Chapel, 2161 Grandin Road, Cincinnati 45208 Tickets are $25; student and group discounts available. Pricing is inclusive of all fees. Tickets can be purchased through the CCM Box Office until April 21. Tickets will not be available for purchase at the concert venue. Buy tickets online. Cincinnati Youth Choir right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Youth Choir We Are Not Alone Cincinnati Youth Choir Robyn Lana, music director After nearly 18 months singing almost entirely remotely, the youth of CYC discovered many things that are important: supportive and welcoming friendship, family and the traditions and legacies they create, growing our musical art in unique ways. Share the special 29th anniversary concert with current CYC singers. 4 p.m. Sunday, March 13 Corbett Auditorium Metamorphosis Cincinnati Youth Choir Robyn Lana, music director Cincinnati youth were not stopped by a pandemic. They each found ways to grow and bloom. As we complete our first full season return to choral artistry, we will celebrate individual and group accomplishments and how our youth have excelled as we look to the future. 4 p.m. Sunday, May 1 Corbett Auditorium Tickets are $10. Pricing is inclusive of all fees. Buy tickets online. Dance right arrow down arrow Photo by Will Brenner. Giselle Composed by Adolphe Adam Deirdre Carberry and Shauna Steele, directors Featuring guest artists Jace Pauly, Cincinnati Ballet; and Antonio White, independent artist One of the most romantic and beloved ballets, Giselle is proof of the strength of the human heart, love's triumph over treachery and betrayal, and the power of redemption and forgiveness. It premiered at the Theatre de L’Academie Royale de Musique in Paris on June 28, 1841. The story was written by Theophile Gautier, based on a theme by Heinrich Heine. Giselle, a peasant girl, goes mad and ultimately dies of a broken heart when Albrecht, an aristocrat, deceives and betrays her. Although Giselle becomes a Wili upon her death she fights to protect her beloved from the other Wilis and Myrtha, Queen of the Wilis, who has ordered Albrecht to be danced to death. Albrecht survives the dance of death through Giselle’s love as she dances to sustain him until the first light of dawn breaks the Wilis power. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, April 14 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 15 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 16 2 p.m. Sunday, April 17 Corbett Auditorium Tickets are $25.50-29.50; student and group discounts available. Pricing is inclusive of all fees. Buy tickets online. Jazz right arrow down arrow Photo by Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand. Don’t Git Sassy: The Music of Thad Jones CCM Jazz Orchestra Scott Belck, music director **Please note: This performance is cancelled. Ticket holders affected by event cancellations have been contacted by CCM’s Box Office staff with additional information. 4 p.m. Sunday, Jan. 30 Corbett Auditorium Composer's Concert CCM Jazz Lab Band Craig Bailey, music director **Please note: This performance is cancelled. Ticket holders affected by event cancellations have been contacted by CCM’s Box Office staff with additional information. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 10 Corbett Auditorium The Music of Chick Corea CCM Jazz Lab Band Craig Bailey, music director A concert of compositions by the great late Chick Corea, featuring a high-energy musical journey into his artistry. 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, March 9 Corbett Auditorium Essentially Ellington Festival: Gala Concert CCM Jazz Orchestra Scott Belck, music director Featuring guest artist Camille Thurman, saxophone CCM’s Essentially Ellington festival, sponsored by Wynton Marsalis’ Jazz at Lincoln Center, returns in full swing! The daylong event features the region’s top high school jazz ensembles, and the gala concert will feature the CCM Jazz Orchestra with Camille Thurman, who appears regularly with the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra. 7:30 p.m. Saturday, March 26 Corbett Auditorium Blues and More Blues CCM Jazz Orchestra and Jazz Lab Band Scott Belck and Craig Bailey, music directors Featuring guest artists Derrick Gardner, trumpet, and Lewis Nash, drums Groove to the sounds of the Blues in various forms, showcasing the music Derrick Gardner, Craig Bailey and other notable jazz composers and arrangers. 7:30 p.m. Sunday, April 10 Patricia Corbett Theater Ticket prices vary; student and group discounts available. Pricing is inclusive of all fees. Buy tickets online. Musicals right arrow down arrow Photo by Mark Lyons. Pippin Music and Lyrics by Steven Schwartz Originally produced on the Broadway stage by Stuart Ostrow Originally directed on the Broadway stage by Bob Fosse 2013 Broadway revival directed by Diane Paulus Theo Ending Originally Conceived In 1998 by Mitch Sebastian Eric Santagata, director Katie Johannigman, choreographer Roger Grodsky, musical director With an infectiously unforgettable score, Pippin is the story of one young man's journey to be extraordinary. Heir to the Frankish throne, the young prince Pippin is in search of the secret to true happiness and fulfillment. He seeks it in the glories of the battlefield, the temptations of the flesh and the intrigues of political power (after disposing of his father, King Charlemagne the Great). In the end, though, Pippin finds that happiness lies not in extraordinary endeavors, but rather in the unextraordinary moments that happen every day. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, March 3 7:30 p.m. Friday, March 4 2 and 7:30 p.m. Saturday, March 5 2 p.m. Sunday, March 6 Corbett Auditorium CCM Musical Theatre Senior Showcase Created and performed by the Class of 2022 in Musical Theatre See and hear our musical theatre students in action at the 30th edition of the "Not Famous Yet" showcase, featuring the Class of 2022 prior to its New York City debut. Limited seating. March 9, 11 and 12, 2022 Patricia Corbett Theater *Are you looking for information on the SOLD OUT CCMpower Benefit Event for the Musical Theatre Senior Showcase? Click here. Sunday in the Park with George Music and Lyrics by Stephen Sondheim Book by James Lapine Originally Directed on Broadway by James Lapine Orchestrations by Michael Starobin Originally Produced on Broadway by The Shubert Organization and Emanuel Azenberg By arrangement with Playwrights Horizons, Inc. New York City which produced the original production of "Sunday in The Park With George" in 1983. Vincent DeGeorge, director and choreographer Julie Spangler, musical director Inspired by the painting, “A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte” by Georges Seurat, Sunday in the Park with George merges past and present into beautiful, poignant truths about life, love and the creation of art. One of the most acclaimed musicals of our time, this moving study of enigmatic painter Seurat won a Pulitzer Prize and was nominated for an astounding 10 Tony Awards, including Best Musical. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, April 7 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 8 2 p.m. Saturday, April 9 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 9 2 p.m. Sunday, April 10 Cohen Family Studio Theater Ticket prices vary; student and group discounts available. Pricing is inclusive of all fees. Buy tickets online. Opera right arrow down arrow Photo by Mark Lyons. Orpheus in the Underworld Music by Jacques Offenbach Libretto by Hector Crémieux and Ludovic Halévy Amy Johnson, director Brett Scott, music director and conductor Presented as part of the Opera d'arte Undergraduate Opera Series. Offenbach’s operetta is a satirical retelling of the ancient Greek myth of Orpheus and his journey to the underworld to save his beloved, Eurydice. In this version, Orpheus and Eurydice are unhappily married, and he reluctantly travels to the underworld in an attempt to retrieve his estranged wife from her new lover, Pluto. The comical opera features beloved music, including a popular can-can. 7:30 p.m. Friday, Feb. 4 7:30p.m. Saturday, Feb. 5 2 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 6 Cohen Family Studio Theater L'amant Anonyme (The Anonymous Lover) Music by Joseph Bologne, Chevalier de Saint-Georges Libretto by Stéphanie Félicité de Genlis Caleb Glickman, conductor Alison Pogorelc, director This chamber opera tells the story of a Léontine, a beautiful young widow who has sworn to resist love and romance. Much to her chagrin, she receives letters and gifts from a secret admirer who is later revealed to be Valcour, her friend who has hidden his true feelings for years. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 17 7:30 p.m. Friday, Feb. 18 7:30 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 19 2 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 20 Cohen Family Studio Theater Galileo Galilei An Opera by Philip Glass Libretto by Mary Zimmerman With Philip Glass and Arnold Weinstein Music by Philip Glass Aik Khai Pung, conductor Greg Eldridge, director As Galileo nears the end of his life, he reflects on the major milestones that defined him and his legacy – his trial for heresy, his scientific discoveries and the loss of his beloved daughter. Drawn from the letters and publications of one of history’s greatest minds, this opera journeys through the life of the father of modern astronomy, offering a complex meditation on the intertwining of art and science and the cyclical nature of existence. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, March 31 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 1 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 2 2 p.m. Sunday, April 3 Patricia Corbett Theater Ticket prices vary; student and group discounts available. Pricing is inclusive of all fees. Buy tickets online. Orchestra right arrow down arrow Photo by Joe Fuqua II/UC Creative Services. Folk Dance, Folk Spirit CCM Philharmonia Mark Gibson, music director and conductor **Please note: This performance has been cancelled. Ticket holders affected by event cancellations will be contacted by CCM’s Box Office staff with additional information. 7:30 p.m. Friday, Jan. 28 Corbett Auditorium Carnival! CCM Philharmonia Mark Gibson, music director and conductor The CCM Philharmonia returns in full force with a varied program of orchestral masterworks, beginning with the music of a rising star and CCM Alumnus Shawn Okpebholo, followed by Stravinsky's glittering score to Petrouchka and concluding with the deeply personal Symphony No. 3 in F Major of Johannes Brahms. SHAWN OKPEBHOLO: Kutimbua Kivumbi (Stomp the Dust!) STRAVINSKY: Petrouchka (1911 version) BRAHMS: Symphony No. 3 in F Major, Op. 90 RESPIGHI: Feste Romane 7:30 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 17 Corbett Auditorium Women Lost, Forgotten, Celebrated CCM Philharmonia, CCM Chamber Choir and Chorale Mark Gibson and Joe Miller, music directors Featuring student artists Xiao Geng and Hannah Schendel, conductors Featuring faculty artist Gwendolyn Coleman, soprano The Philharmonia welcomes CCM Director of Choral Studies Joe Miller to the podium with a program honoring women through the healing power of the human voice. LOUISE FARRENC: Symphony No. 3 in G Minor, Op. 36 HARBISON: Mirabai Songs POULENC: Stabat Mater 7:30 p.m. Friday, March 11 Corbett Auditorium Season Finale: Philharmonia Triumphant CCM Philharmonia Mark Gibson, music director and conductor In honor of CCM’s student artists, their talent and their intrepid spirit, we close with one of the summits of the literature, Richard Strauss’ paean to the heroism of the musical life, Ein Heldenleben. TCHAIKOVSKY: “Waltz” from Swan Lake FLORENCE PRICE: Piano Concerto STRAUSS: Ein Heldenleben 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 23 Corbett Auditorium Ticket prices are $25; student and group discounts available. Pricing is inclusive of all fees. Buy tickets online. Plays right arrow down arrow Photo by Mark Lyons. Blue Stockings By Jessica Swale Susan Felder, director A moving, comical and eye-opening story of four young women fighting for education and self-determination against the backdrop of women’s suffrage in 1896 Britain. Tess Moffatt and the other first-year women of Girton College are determined to win the right to graduate, but little do they anticipate the hurdles in their way. The play follows them in their fight to change the future of education. 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 9 (preview) 7:30 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 10 7:30 p.m. Friday, Feb. 11 2 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 12 7:30 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 12 2 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 13 Patricia Corbett Theater The Burials By Caitlin Parrish Richard Hess, director The Burials tells the all-too-common story of a shooting rampage in an American high school. In the wake of the shooting, survivors and family members search for healing as they are thrust into the national spotlight by social media and news outlets. The play examines the struggles between the need for civic responsibility and personal freedom in an America intent on avoiding solutions to problems at the cost of those closely affected — American youth. Content advisory: For mature audiences. The play includes depictions of gun violence. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, April 21 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 22 2 p.m. Saturday, April 23 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 23 2 p.m. Sunday, April 24 Cohen Family Studio Theater Ticket prices vary; student and group discounts available. Pricing is inclusive of all fees. Buy tickets online. Prep right arrow down arrow Photo provided by CCM Prep. Spring Youth Ballet Concert Tricia Sundbeck, director The CCM Youth Ballet Companies feature talented students from ages nine through adult, performing traditional and contemporary works choreographed by CCM and CCM Prep faculty. 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 29 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 30 Patricia Corbett Theater Ticket prices start at $19.50; student and group discounts available. Buy tickets online. Steel Drum right arrow down arrow Photo by Jay Yocis/UC Creative + Brand. CANCELLED: A Trip to Trinidad and Back CCM Steel Drum Band Russell Burge, music coordinator Please note, this performance has been cancelled. 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 8 Patricia Corbett Theater Winds right arrow down arrow Photo by Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand. Winter Blossom CCM Wind Symphony Kevin Michael Holzman, music director and conductor Featuring faculty artist Michael Chertock, piano *Please note: This performance has been cancelled. Ticket holders affected by event cancellations will be contacted by CCM’s Box Office staff with additional information. 7:30 p.m. Saturday, Jan. 29 Corbett Auditorium Pops: Summon the Heroes CCM Wind Symphony Kevin Michael Holzman, music director and conductor Terence Milligan, conductor emeritus Featuring faculty artist Michael Mergen, trumpet The CCM Wind Symphony performs an inspiring program of popular works, featuring movie soundtrack classics alongside well-known wind band repertoire. Featuring Faculty Artist Michael Mergen, trumpet, this performance includes works by John Williams, John Phillip Sousa, Gustav Holst and more! 7:30 p.m. Friday, Feb. 18 Corbett Auditorium Come Sunday CCM Wind Symphony Kevin Michael Holzman, music director and conductor Featuring faculty artist Timothy Northcut, tuba Featuring Lakota West High School Symphonic Winds Andrew Carr, guest conductor The CCM Wind Symphony performs an exciting program of music, featuring a newly commissioned work by Augusta Read Thomas, Joel Puckett’s stunning Adagio Symphony and Omar Thomas’ thrilling Come Sunday. *Please note the repertoire is updated from what was previously announced. READ THOMAS: Crackle ﻿HOLST: Hammersmith Op. 52, Prelude and Scherzo ﻿PUCKETT: That Secret from the River THOMAS: Come Sunday 7:30 p.m. Friday, March 25 Corbett Auditorium PRISM CCM Wind Studies Ensembles Featuring the Cincinnati Youth Wind Ensemble (CYWE) and the UC Bearcat Band The CCM Department of Wind Studies presents our most popular annual concert! Join us for a spectacular performance of nonstop, surround-sound music in Corbett Auditorium featuring the Wind Symphony, Wind Ensemble, Chamber Winds, Brass Choir, Cincinnati Youth Wind Ensemble, UC Bearcat Band and more! 4 p.m. Sunday, March 27 Corbett Auditorium Pictures at an Exhibition CCM Wind Symphony Kevin Michael Holzman, music director and conductor Featuring the Walnut Hills High School Wind Ensemble Richard Canter, conductor The CCM Wind Symphony performs a thrilling season finale program, culminating in Modest Mussorgsky’s monumental classic Pictures at an Exhibition. *Please note the repertoire is updated from what was previously announced. WOLFE: ZigZag IVES: “The Alcotts” from Piano Sonata No. 2 "Concord, Mass., 1840-60” PERSICHETTI: Psalm for Band SIMON: Amen! MUSSORGSKY: Pictures at an Exhibition 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 22 Corbett Auditorium Ticket prices are $19.50; student and group discounts available. Pricing is inclusive of all fees. Buy tickets online. Regular Operating Hours Monday-Friday: 12:30-6 p.m. Saturday: 12-4 p.m. One hour prior to the start of ticketed performances. Contact Information Location: CCM Atrium Lobby next to Corbett Auditorium Telephone: 513-556-4183 Email: boxoff@uc.edu Student Ticket Options right arrow down arrow To expedite CCM student ticket requests, students are encouraged to visit CCM's ticket sales website to create an account BEFORE visiting the CCM Box Office. Advance Sales Want to guarantee your seat? Current CCM students can purchase up to two tickets for each CCMONSTAGE concert and production at the discounted rate of just $5 per ticket. Tickets must be purchased in person at the CCM Box Office. A valid student ID is required. Please note that all ticketed performances at CCM are now reserved seating, so you will be required to select your seats at time of purchase. Rush Tickets Current CCM students also have the opportunity to attend most CCMONSTAGE events at no charge through student rush. CCM student rush tickets become available two days before each concert performance and one hour prior to the start of each theatre arts (dance, plays, musicals, opera) performance. The CCM Box Office strongly encourages students to request concert rush tickets at least 30-minutes prior to the start of each performance. CCM student rush tickets subject to availability. Tickets must be requested in person at the CCM Box Office. A valid student ID is required. Other restrictions may apply. Inquire at the CCM Box Office for full details. Inclement Weather Policy In the event of inclement weather conditions, CCM will handle the cancellation of events and performances as follows: if the University of Cincinnati is closed, all CCM performances on that day will be cancelled. CCM patrons that wish to receive specific ticketed event cancellation notices via email should contact the Box Office at 513-556-4183 or email boxoff@uc.edu. Sponsors Louise Dieterle Nippert Trust Scholarship and Resident Artist Sponsor The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation CSO/CCM Diversity Fellowship Sponsor The Corbett Endowment at CCM Dance Department Sponsor All-Steinway School Sponsor Louise H. & David S. Ingalls Foundation, Inc. Community Partners The Joseph and Frances Jones Poetker Fund of the Cambridge Charitable Foundation, Ritter & Randolph, LLC, Corporate Counsel Visiting Artists & Thinking About Music Sponsor ArtsWave: Funding Arts, Fueling Community CCMpower: Friends and Alumni Fueling the Future of the Arts The Strader Fund at the Greater Cincinnati Foundation CCMONSTAGE ONLINE Broadcast Sponsors Dr. & Mrs. Carl G. Fischer Musical Theatre Department Sponsor Genevieve Smith Opera Production Sponsor Rafael and Kimberly de Acha Opera D’Arte Sponsor An Anonymous Donor Estate of Mr. William A. Friedlander Mrs. William A. Friedlander Dr. Randolph L. Wadsworth Judith Schonbach Landgren and Peter Landgren Mr. & Mrs. Harry H. Santen Elizabeth C.B. & Paul G. Sittenfeld+ Mr. & Mrs. Thomas E. Stegman Dr. & Mrs. Theodore W. Striker+ Mrs. Harry M. Hoffheimer Ariel Quartet Sponsors Jan Rogers Willard and Jean Mulford Charitable Fund of the Cambridge Charitable Foundation Choral Studies Sponsors Mr. & Mrs. Joseph W. Hirschhorn Orchestral Sponsor Dorothy Richard Starling Foundation Starling Pre-Collegiate Sponsor Starling Strings Sponsor Dr. Timothy E. and Janet L. Johnson Thom Miles and Roberta Gary Organ Department Sponsors Louis and Susan Meisel Piano Department Sponsor Richard E. Thornburgh Edward Donovan and Cheryl Carter Jeff Thomas Catering The Castleberry Family KMK Law Sandra & Stephen Joffe Paula Boggs Muething & Brian Muething Patti Myers & Alan Flaherty Trish & Rick Bryan Prestige AV & Creative Services Graeter’s Ice Cream Rhinegeist Brewery CCMpower The CCM Harmony Fund: Challenging Hate & Prejudice through the Performing Arts Event Sponsors Buddy Rogers Music LINKS Sponsor Sponsors listed as of August 30, 2021 University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music PO Box 210003 Cincinnati OH 45221-0003 513-556-6638 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music PO Box 210003 Cincinnati OH 45221-0003 513-556-6638 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top