Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for Computational Molecular Biology Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Graduate Undergraduate Courses People Core Members Affiliate Members Postdocs Graduate Students Contact & Administration Becoming an Affiliate NIH Graduate Training Program T32 Trainees Faculty Trainers on the T32 News & Events Software Search Center for Computational Molecular Biology CCMB To promote the development, implementation and application of analytical and computational methods to foundational questions in the biological and medical sciences. CCMB To promote the development, implementation and application of analytical and computational methods to foundational questions in the biological and medical sciences. The prime intellectual mission is to promote the development, implementation and application of analytical and computational methods to foundational questions in the biological and medical sciences. The research programs of the Core Faculty in CCMB lie fundamentally at the intersection of computer science, evolutionary biology, mathematics, and molecular and cellular biology. Biological questions Biological questions that currently unite the CCMB Core and Associate Faculty are: How do genotypes and genes interact to produce phenotypes, and how does this happen from womb to tomb? What drives the formation, maintenance and evolutionary transformations of communities of organisms over time? Quantitative questions that currently unite the CCMB faculty are: how can we design powerful algorithms to make sense of the sea of data produced in the genomic era? What principles are required for a theoretical framework to completely model cellular systems? Research challenges The research challenges at the heart of CCMB are a rich source of mathematical problems motivated by the complex nature of genomes, disease processes and evolutionary relationships. These challenges are both multi-scale (with units of interest ranging from molecules to communities of organisms) and large-scale (data-intensive, due to advances in sequencing technologies). Explore CCMB Undergraduate Computational Biology Program. Students may pursue a Bachelor of Arts or a Bachelor of Science. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Graduate The Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) offers Ph.D. degrees in Computational Biology to train the next generation of scientists to perform cutting edge research in the multidisciplinary field of Computational Biology. Visit Page Open details for Graduate Contact & Administration Contact information, mailing address and directions. Visit Page Open details for Contact &amp; Administration NIH Graduate Training Program NIH-funded Predoctoral Training Program (T32) in Biological Data Science. Visit Page Open details for NIH Graduate Training Program Partnering CCMB rounds out the broader landscape of research in methodological development at Brown University by partnering with and complementing: Data Science Initiative Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics COBRE Center for the Computational Biology of Human Disease https://www.youtube.com/embed/p3zBdW-ENtU Ph.D. program in Computational Biology Stay Connected Twitter Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Graduate Undergraduate Courses People Core Members Affiliate Members Postdocs Graduate Students Contact & Administration Becoming an Affiliate NIH Graduate Training Program T32 Trainees Faculty Trainers on the T32 News & Events Software This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search CCMB Open details for CCMB Bookmark this Page