Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for Computational Molecular Biology Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Graduate Undergraduate Courses People Core Members Affiliate Members Postdocs Graduate Students Contact & Administration Becoming an Affiliate NIH Graduate Training Program T32 Trainees Faculty Trainers on the T32 News & Events Software Search Center for Computational Molecular Biology Graduate Breadcrumb Home Academics Sub Navigation In This Section Graduate Prospective Student FAQ Student Resources Undergraduate Courses Graduate The Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) offers Ph.D. degrees in Computational Biology to train the next generation of scientists to perform cutting edge research in the multidisciplinary field of Computational Biology. During the course of their Ph.D. studies students will develop and apply novel computational, mathematical , and statistical techniques to problems in the life sciences. Students in this program must achieve mastery in three areas - computational science, molecular biology, and probability and statistical inference - through a common core of studies that spans and integrates these areas. Ph.D. program The Ph.D. program in Computational Biology draws on course offerings from the disciplines of the Center’s Core faculty members. These areas are: Applied Mathematics (APMA) Computer Science (CS) Division of Biology and Medicine (BioMed) Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI) School of Public Health/Biostats (SPH) Our faculty and Director of Graduate Studies (DGS) work with each student to develop the best plan of coursework and research rotations to meet the student’s goals in their research focus and satisfy the University’s requirements for graduation. Applicants should state a preference for at least one of these areas in their personal statement or elsewhere in their application. Ph.D. Program Overview & Handbook Ph.D. Thesis Committee Feedback Form Ph.D. Qualifying Exam Feedback Form Applied Mathematics Ph.D. program Students interested in the intersection of Applied Mathematics and Computational Biology are encouraged to apply directly to the Applied Mathematics Ph.D. program, and to contact relevant CCMB faculty members. How to Apply Prerequisites Our PhD program assumes the following prerequisites: Mathematics through intermediate calculus Linear algebra and discrete mathematics Demonstrated programming skill At least one undergraduate course in chemistry and in molecular biology Exceptional strengths in one area may compensate for limited background in other areas, but some proficiency across the disciplines must be evident for admission. Application Process The application process to the CCMB graduate program is run through the Graduate School. Please read the FAQ Please do not email or call the Center to check on the status of your application. All decisions will be communicated in writing. Application Deadline is December 13th, applications open in late September-early October. If you have questions about the application itself, contact graduate_admissions@brown.edu Only materials submitted via the Graduate School online application portal will be considered. Apply Now Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Graduate Undergraduate Courses People Core Members Affiliate Members Postdocs Graduate Students Contact & Administration Becoming an Affiliate NIH Graduate Training Program T32 Trainees Faculty Trainers on the T32 News & Events Software This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Open details for Graduate Bookmark this Page