Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for Computational Molecular Biology Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Graduate Undergraduate Courses People Core Members Affiliate Members Postdocs Graduate Students Contact & Administration Becoming an Affiliate NIH Graduate Training Program T32 Trainees Faculty Trainers on the T32 News & Events Software Search Center for Computational Molecular Biology Prospective Student FAQ Breadcrumb Home Academics Graduate Sub Navigation In This Section Prospective Student FAQ Student Resources Prospective Student FAQ Considering applying? Here is some helpful information. What is the timeline for the application processing? Applications are reviewed in a multi-step process by the Admissions Committee for the Computational Biology program. The committee is selected from our multi-disciplinary faculty each year and the overall process is generally completed by the end of February with offers being extended by March each year. What are the criteria for admission to the PhD program in computational biology at Brown? Academic performance, letters of recommendation and previous research experience are crucial in our selection process. We also consider TOEFL scores (if relevant), motivation, work experience, awards, honors, prizes, and other accomplishments. In more detail, we are looking for: Academic performance: The GPA is not the only criterion. Grades in disciplines relevant to computational biology count more than grades in other areas. Also, we take into account the fact that at some very competitive schools it is very difficult to achieve a high GPA. Letters of recommendation: Letters must give a detailed, factual, and candid evaluation of the applicant's capabilities. Rankings and comparisons with other students are very useful. Ask your recommender to follow these guidelines. If your recommender is sending the letter directly, check to make sure the deadlines are met. We routinely find ourselves unable to admit potentially qualified students because their letters of recommendation have not arrived in time. Research experience: Research experience, although not required, can boost your chances of admission considerably. If you have worked on a research project, please tell us about it and ask at least one of your recommenders to comment on it. If your work is part of a joint project, the recommender should indicate your specific contribution to the project. Include abstracts or reprints of any papers you have published in journals or presented at conferences. General GRE scores: The University and the Graduate School have dropped the GRE requirement for the Ph.D. program in Computational Biology TOEFL and IELTS scores: Applicants whose native language is not English and who have not received a college degree from an institution in an English-speaking country must take the TOEFL exam. Additional evidence (e.g., certificate of completion of an English course) may also be submitted. We generally do not consider applicants who have scored below 620 (PBT) or 260 (CBT) or 105 (IBT), and prefer scores higher than that. The corresponding minimum IELTS score is 7. More info on TOEFL scores can be found here. Statement: The statement that accompanies your application helps us learn more about you. Tell us why you want to pursue a PhD program in computational biology, and why you are applying to our Center in particular. Clearly expressing any areas of academic interest make it easier for us to evaluate your application. Work experience: Please describe your work experience in the application and, if related to computational biology, mention how you think it will help you in graduate school. Awards, honors, and prizes: Unless they are well known (e.g., NSF fellowship or graduation with honors), please give details about them (how many candidates? how many awards? what were the selection criteria?). This is especially important for foreign applicants. If these awards are really important, we would expect your recommenders to mention them. Can I still apply if I cannot have the full application ready by the deadline? While we will process incomplete applications, we do make our financial support decisions early in the year. Therefore, late applicants significantly hurt their ability to get financial support. Note that we need a complete application, including letters of recommendation and OFFICIAL SCORE REPORTS, before we can make admission and financial support decisions. Therefore, please give your letter writers enough time to write and mail your letters of support! Can I apply at other times of the year? Can I enter in the winter quarter? All PhD students must enter the program at the same time (at the beginning of the fall semester, in September). Currently the admissions process has a fixed deadline for the Computational Biology Program. I cannot afford the application fee. Can you waive it? The Graduate School maintains a web page with information regarding the Application Fee Waiver process. Does a request for financial aid affect my chances of being admitted? No. Admission and funding are handled independently. We admit all PhD students (including international students) with financial support. Do I have to pick an advisor prior to entry? No. You have the first year to find a PhD advisor, which you do through courses, seminars, group meetings and other contact. We do not require you to pick an advisor prior to entry. (In contrast, some of our competitors force you to align with a particular advisor, whom you may have never met and whose work may not entirely interest you, before you begin.) Do note, however, that your graduate application will be stronger if you have some idea of what you want to do. If you do have such plans, please discuss them in your application statement. Try to be specific; simply listing the names of lots of professors, without providing concrete reasons for why you are interested in their work, is not likely to help your case. May I apply using a paper application? The Graduate School only accepts online applications at this time. Are photocopies or faxes of any of the application materials acceptable? Photocopies and faxes are acceptable only as place-holders in the initial application; if you are offered admission to the program original documents are required to complete your application. Please send all documents to the Graduate School, not the Center for Computational Molecular Biology. Can I contact the Graduate School by phone or electronic mail? Contact information is provided on the Graduate School website. Have you received all my application materials? Please refer to the online application system, which will indicate if your letters of recommendation have been received. Where do I send my transcripts, score reports, etc? Please send supplemental materials to: Brown Graduate School, 47 George Street, Box 1867, Providence, RI 02912 or graduate_admissions@brown.edu Please note the best practice is to upload all items to your application in the system itself. If you are having difficulty the above email will contact an admissions officer who will assist with your application. Additional information can be found here. Who decides whom to admit? Admissions are granted by the Graduate School of Brown University. Operationally, the CCMB evaluates your application and makes recommendations to the Graduate School, which normally adopts our recommendations. Therefore, you are generating your application (in particular, your statement) to be read primarily by faculty of the Center. What if I have other questions? If you have questions about the Computational Biology Ph.D. program itself, please email the CCMB@brown.edu address and your question will be answered as soon as possible. If you have questions about the online application system or uploading documents, contact the Graduate School at graduate_admissions@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Graduate Undergraduate Courses People Core Members Affiliate Members Postdocs Graduate Students Contact & Administration Becoming an Affiliate NIH Graduate Training Program T32 Trainees Faculty Trainers on the T32 News & Events Software This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Prospective Student FAQ Open details for Prospective Student FAQ Bookmark this Page