Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for Computational Molecular Biology Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Graduate Undergraduate Courses People Core Members Affiliate Members Postdocs Graduate Students Contact & Administration Becoming an Affiliate NIH Graduate Training Program T32 Trainees Faculty Trainers on the T32 News & Events Software Search Center for Computational Molecular Biology All News Sub Navigation In This Section Upcoming Events Past Events 41 Results based on your selections. News from CCMB CCMB Member awarded Packard Fellowship October 19, 2020 Read Article Open details for CCMB Member awarded Packard Fellowship News from CCMB Prof. Ramachandran named Interim Director of the DSI August 27, 2020 Data Science Initiative Interim Director Read Article Open details for Prof. Ramachandran named Interim Director of the DSI News from Brown Barnacles offer genetic clues on how organisms adapt to changing environments March 16, 2020 Long-term work by a Brown research team on how barnacles thrive in intertidal zones has increasingly wide implications for understanding how other organisms may adapt in the face of climate change. Read Article Open details for Barnacles offer genetic clues on how organisms adapt to changing environments News from Brown Sloan Foundation awards early-career fellowships to two Brown scientists February 27, 2020 Two assistant professors at Brown, in chemistry and ecology and evolutionary biology, are among the 126 early-career scholars named as Alfred P. Sloan Foundation fellows for 2020. Read Article Open details for Sloan Foundation awards early-career fellowships to two Brown scientists News from CCMB CCMB Professor Crawford named to The Root 100 November 22, 2019 Read Article Open details for CCMB Professor Crawford named to The Root 100 News from Brown Two Brown researchers earn top White House award for early-career scientists July 5, 2019 Faculty members Sohini Ramachandran and Anita Shukla are among the winners of the Presidential Early Career Award in Science and Engineering, the nation’s top honor for early-career scientists and engineers. Read Article Open details for Two Brown researchers earn top White House award for early-career scientists News from Brown New software helps detect adaptive genetic mutations February 19, 2018 Brown University researchers have developed a new machine learning technique that can track down beneficial mutations in population genetic datasets. Read Article Open details for New software helps detect adaptive genetic mutations News from Brown Assay of nearly 5,000 mutations reveals roots of genetic splicing errors April 17, 2017 Brown biologists have developed a new system, described in Nature Genetics, that identified and tracked hundreds of genetic variations that alter the way DNA is spliced when cells make proteins, often leading to disease. Read Article Open details for Assay of nearly 5,000 mutations reveals roots of genetic splicing errors News from CCMB Congratulations Hsin-Ta! May 11, 2016 Hsin-Ta Wu successfully defended his thesis on Tuesday, May 10th to become our second awarded Doctorate in the Computational Biology Ph.D. program. Read Article Open details for Congratulations Hsin-Ta! News from CCMB Sohini Ramchandran awarded Wriston Fellowship May 4, 2016 CCMB Professor Sohini Ramachandran has been awarded Brown’s Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship for 2016-2017. Read Article Open details for Sohini Ramchandran awarded Wriston Fellowship News from CCMB Congratulations Julia Palacios! May 3, 2016 Julia joins the faculty at Stanford! Read Article Open details for Congratulations Julia Palacios! News from CCMB Inaugural Computational Biology Ph.D. Graduate Max Leiserson April 27, 2016 Congratulations to Dr. Max Leiserson, Ph.D. on successfully defending his thesis and becoming the first Ph.D. to complete the program in Computational Biology at the Center. We are proud to have you as our first awarded Doctorate and wish you all the best in your future endeavors. Read Article Open details for Inaugural Computational Biology Ph.D. Graduate Max Leiserson News from CCMB Senior Biology Prize for Academic Excellence April 22, 2016 Congratulations to Abigail Janke class of 2016 who has been awarded the Senior Biology Prize for Academic Excellence. Read Article Open details for Senior Biology Prize for Academic Excellence News from CCMB Stephen Rong awarded NSF GRFP! April 4, 2016 Ph.D. student Stephen Rong of Brown University’s Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) and Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology has just received a National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) Fellowship. Read Article Open details for Stephen Rong awarded NSF GRFP! News from CCMB Congratulations Mohammed! November 17, 2015 Dual congratulations are in order for CCMB Postdoctoral Fellow Mohammed El-Kebir. Read Article Open details for Congratulations Mohammed! News from CCMB Sohini Ramachandran named to Manning Assistant Professor October 7, 2015 Please join me in Congratulating Sohini Ramachandran on her appointment to the Manning Assistant Professor chair of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. Read Article Open details for Sohini Ramachandran named to Manning Assistant Professor News from CCMB Congratulations to Ashley Conard September 9, 2015 CCMB incoming PhD student on winning the Research Collaboratory for Structural Bioinformatics Protein Data Bank’s 2015 Poster Prize! Read Article Open details for Congratulations to Ashley Conard News from CCMB Web app helps researchers explore cancer genetics July 24, 2015 As gene sequencing has gotten faster and cheaper, clinicians and researchers are able to use genomic data to study, diagnose, and develop a course of treatment for a variety of individual cancers. Read Article Open details for Web app helps researchers explore cancer genetics News from CCMB National Science Foundation CAREER award May 7, 2015 Dr. Sohini Ramachandran receives the CAREER award from the National Science Foundation. Read Article Open details for National Science Foundation CAREER award News from CCMB Algorithm Identifies Networks of Genetic Changes Across Cancers February 2, 2015 Cancers often involve far more than a genetic mutation acting alone. Multiple mutations, many of which are rare, may occur in different networks of multiple genes. HotNet2 is a powerful algorithm that analyzes genes at the network level and can help cancer researchers search for genetic associations and likely sources of disease across almost unimaginable genetic complexities. Read Article Open details for Algorithm Identifies Networks of Genetic Changes Across Cancers News from CCMB Probing the Deep History of Human Genes and Language February 2, 2015 Brown University evolutionary biologist Sohini Ramachandran has joined with colleagues in publishing a sweeping analysis of genetic and linguistic patterns across the world’s populations. Among the findings is that geographic distance predicts differentiation in both language and genes. Read Article Open details for Probing the Deep History of Human Genes and Language News from CCMB Infection outbreaks, unique diseases rising since 1980 February 2, 2015 Ebola has a lot of company. In a novel database now made publicly available, Brown University researchers found that since 1980 the world has seen an increasing number of infectious disease outbreaks from an increasing number of sources. The good news, however, is that they are affecting a shrinking proportion of the world population. Read Article Open details for Infection outbreaks, unique diseases rising since 1980 News from CCMB Interactions May Matter Most for Longevity September 11, 2014 A new study of the biology of aging shows that complex interactions among diet, mitochondrial DNA and nuclear DNA appear to influence lifespan at least as much as single factors alone. The findings may help scientists better understand the underlying mechanisms of aging and explain why studies of single factors sometimes produce contradictory results. Read Article Open details for Interactions May Matter Most for Longevity News from CCMB David Rand, CCMB Professor One of Three Named AAAS Fellows September 11, 2014 Barry Connors, Diane Lipscombe, and David Rand have been named fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. They will be officially welcomed as fellows on Saturday, Feb. 18, 2012, at the AAAS Annual Meeting in Vancouver, B.C. Read Article Open details for David Rand, CCMB Professor One of Three Named AAAS Fellows News from CCMB Layla Oesper Wins ISMB Workshop Best Presentation Award July 22, 2014 In Boston, Brown University's Department of Computer Science (Brown CS) and Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) managed to put a capstone on their achievement of giving a record number of talks at one of the most prominent conferences in Computational Biology. Read Article Open details for Layla Oesper Wins ISMB Workshop Best Presentation Award News from CCMB Brown CS And CCMB To Enjoy Record Participation At ISMB 2014 July 8, 2014 Brown University's Department of Computer Science (Brown CS) and Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) are looking forward to giving a record number of talks at one of the most prominent conferences in computational biology. Read Article Open details for Brown CS And CCMB To Enjoy Record Participation At ISMB 2014 News from CCMB Six BrownCS Faculty Members Win OVPR Seed Awards May 5, 2014 Brown University's Department of Computer Science has exceeded its own record for the largest number of Seed Awards in a single year, with six faculty members sharing five awards in 2014. Read Article Open details for Six BrownCS Faculty Members Win OVPR Seed Awards News from CCMB Sorin Istrail Receives NSF Grant For Haplotype Reconstruction Algorithms April 16, 2014 Sorin Istrail has received funding for the NSF grant "Genome-Wide Algorithms for Haplotype Reconstruction and Beyond: A Combined Haplotype Assembly and Identical-by-Descent Tracts Approach". Read Article Open details for Sorin Istrail Receives NSF Grant For Haplotype Reconstruction Algorithms News from CCMB Iman Hajirasouliha Receives NSERC Fellowship March 14, 2014 Postdoctoral Research Associate Iman Hajirasouliha of Brown University's Computer Science Department and the Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) has just received a Postdoctoral Fellowship from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) for his proposal ("Algorithms for constructing ancestral history of deep-sequenced tumors") on cancer heterogeneity. Read Article Open details for Iman Hajirasouliha Receives NSERC Fellowship News from CCMB Algorithm aids in cancer research October 16, 2013 A computer algorithm developed by Brown computer scientists is helping to unlock the genetic drivers behind a variety of cancers. Research reported in the journal Nature identified a suite of mutations common in 12 types of cancer, including cancers of the breast, uterus, lung, colon, brain, and kidney. Read Article Open details for Algorithm aids in cancer research News from CCMB Translational Seed Award May 6, 2013 Sorin Istrail has received the inaugural Translational Seed Award from OVPR for the project “Development of New Computational and Point of Care Platforms for HIV Drug Resistance” in collaboration with Joe Hogan (Biostatistics), Rami Kantor (Medicine), and Anubhav Tripathi (Engineering). Read Article Open details for Translational Seed Award News from CCMB Algorithms find genetic cancer networks May 1, 2013 CCMB Ph.D. students Hsin-Ta Wu and Max Leiserson, working in Ben Raphael's group, use powerful algorithms to assemble the most complete genetic profile yet of acute myeloid leukemia, an aggressive form of blood cancer, in collaboration with researchers at Washington University in St., Louis and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Read Article Open details for Algorithms find genetic cancer networks News from CCMB When the cell's two genomes collide February 5, 2013 Animal cells contain two genomes: one in the nucleus and one in the mitochondria. When mutations occur in each, they can become incompatible, leading to disease. Read Article Open details for When the cell&#039;s two genomes collide News from CCMB Brown Helps Win Genomics Challenge November 7, 2012 A team of researchers led by Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, including members of William Fairbrother’s lab at Brown, has won the national CLARITY genomics contest, organizers announced in San Francisco Nov. 7. Read Article Open details for Brown Helps Win Genomics Challenge News from CCMB Brown awarded $1.5M for new Big Data tools October 3, 2012 Eli Upfal and Fabio Vandin of the Computer Science Department, and Ben Raphael of the Computer Science Department and the CCMB at Brown University, from left, are developing Big Data analytical tools that make sense of large datasets and eliminate the noise of data errors. Read Article Open details for Brown awarded $1.5M for new Big Data tools News from CCMB Sohini Ramachandran Interviewed for Nature's "Turning Point" August 22, 2012 Sohini Ramachandran, an Assistant Professor in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Brown University, was interviewed for Nature's "Turning Point". Read Article Open details for Sohini Ramachandran Interviewed for Nature&#039;s &quot;Turning Point&quot; News from CCMB Brown University Researchers Develop New Method for Haplotype Assembly with NGS Data July 27, 2012 Researchers from Brown University have developed a method that they say can generate more accurate haplotype assemblies for genome-wide and whole-exome studies than current methods. Read Article Open details for Brown University Researchers Develop New Method for Haplotype Assembly with NGS Data News from CCMB Sohini Ramachandran featured in The Scientist as their "Scientist to Watch" June 1, 2012 Brown's Sohini Ramachandran was recently featured on The Scientist's "Scientist to watch". Read Article Open details for Sohini Ramachandran featured in The Scientist as their &quot;Scientist to Watch&quot; News from CCMB David Rand named AAAS fellow December 7, 2011 David Rand along with fellow professors Barry Connors and Dian Lipscombe have been named fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Read Article Open details for David Rand named AAAS fellow News from CCMB Continents influenced human migration, spread of technology September 19, 2011 Researchers at Brown University and Stanford University have pieced together ancient human migration in North and South America. Read Article Open details for Continents influenced human migration, spread of technology News from CCMB HotNet is the heat-seeker of cancer September 19, 2011 This summer, more than a hundred scientists from dozens of research institutions published a landmark paper that identified a single gene responsible for the most prevalent form of ovarian cancer. Read Article Open details for HotNet is the heat-seeker of cancer Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Graduate Undergraduate Courses People Core Members Affiliate Members Postdocs Graduate Students Contact & Administration Becoming an Affiliate NIH Graduate Training Program T32 Trainees Faculty Trainers on the T32 News & Events Software This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page