Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for Computational Molecular Biology Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Graduate Undergraduate Courses People Core Members Affiliate Members Postdocs Graduate Students Contact & Administration Becoming an Affiliate NIH Graduate Training Program T32 Trainees Faculty Trainers on the T32 News & Events Software Search Center for Computational Molecular Biology Undergraduate Breadcrumb Home Academics Sub Navigation In This Section Graduate Undergraduate Comp Bio DUG Honors Thesis Archive Courses Undergraduate Computational Biology Program. Students may pursue a Bachelor of Arts or a Bachelor of Science. Students pursuing the ScB have the option of electing a concentration in Computational Biology with one of three focus areas: Computer Sciences Biological Sciences Applied Mathematics & Statistics Both programs require a senior capstone experience that pair students and faculty in creative research collaborations. Become a Computational Biology Concentrator Fill out the application on ASK. Meet with your advisor to complete the undergraduate worksheet. A.B. Worksheet Sc.B. Worksheet Comp Bio Honors Registration In order to be considered a candidate for honors, students will be expected to maintain an outstanding record in concentration courses. In addition, students should take at least one semester, and are strongly encouraged to take 2 semesters, of reading and research with a CCMB faculty member or approved advisor to complete their research. Students must submit to a public defense of their theses to be presented in an open forum to the CCMB community scheduled in the latter half of April. Deadlines: 1st Friday in October submit the below form registering your honors thesis and advisor submit a 1 page outline of your project including working title, and a few brief paragraphs describing the research project, the lab you will be working with, methodology you will be using, and your desired end goal for the project to ccmb@brown.edu 1st Friday in February submit a short progress report regarding your research project to ccmb@brown.edu include the name of the second reader (faculty member not your advisor) 1st Friday in April submit final draft of thesis project to ccmb@brown.edu 3rd Week of April Present your thesis project and findings in the Comp Bio Honors Thesis presentations, date will be circulated in Fall semester. Complete the form Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Graduate Undergraduate Courses People Core Members Affiliate Members Postdocs Graduate Students Contact & Administration Becoming an Affiliate NIH Graduate Training Program T32 Trainees Faculty Trainers on the T32 News & Events Software This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Undergraduate Open details for Undergraduate Bookmark this Page