Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Clinical Child Psychology Program myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Admissions Select to follow link Applying to the CCPP Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data About Select to follow link About Us Overview Mission, Vision, Values History People Select to follow link Core Faculty Graduate Students Staff Research Academics Student Resources Contact Us Donate myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Clinical Child Psychology Program Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search The Clinical Child Psychology Program at the University of Kansas The Clinical Child Psychology Program at the University of Kansas is a graduate program leading to the doctoral degree in Clinical Child Psychology. We are accredited by the American Psychological Association’s Commission on Accreditation as a clinical psychology doctoral training program with a special emphasis on children, adolescents, and families. Our mission is to develop leaders in the research, dissemination, and practice of psychological clinical science for children, youths, and their families. The Clinical Child Psychology Program fulfills the basic and traditional orientations to Clinical Psychology as a practice area in health service psychology with an emphasis in working with children, adolescents, parents, and families. The CCPP is an initiative jointly affiliated with the KU Departments of Psychology and Applied Behavioral Science. This interdepartmental program involves the resources of faculty in both departments in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. The program includes a core faculty with specialty interests in clinical child and pediatric psychology. Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data KU CCPP Quicklinks The Child and Family Services Clinic Our KU Child & Family Services Clinic provides affordable, quality mental health care to children, adolescents, and families of Northeast Kansas, including Lawrence, Eudora, Baldwin, Topeka, and the Kansas City Metro area. KU CFSC is the primary training clinic for graduate students in the Clinical Child Psychology Doctoral program at the University of Kansas. KU CFSC Support the CCPP Our endowment account has been growing thanks to the generous support of our alumni and friends, and children, youth, and families have been reaping the rewards. A gift of any amount will help us with our mission, and will help us continue our tradition of excellence. Donate APA Accreditation Questions related to the program’s accredited status should be directed to the Commission on Accreditation: Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation American Psychological Association 750 1st Street, NE, Washington, DC 20002 Phone: 202-336-5979 E-mail: apaaccred@apa.org Commision on Accreditation 2010 Dole Human Development Center 1000 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 ccpp@ku.edu 785-864-4226 facebook twitter Prospective Students Faculty Donate Contact Us Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.