Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Center for Climate Systems Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What We Do People Our Partnerships Events Publications Global Climate Modeling Atmospheric Composition Global Food Security Climate Impacts Goddard Institute for Space Studies (NASA GISS) AIMES Initiative APAM at GISS Center for Climate Systems Research Home Center for Climate Systems Research Columbia's Home for Climate and Human Systems Research We perform and publish cutting-edge, earth systems research in close collaboration with NASA and multiple other governmental and academic partners in the earth, climate, and sustainability sciences. We also lead efforts to mitigate and adapt to a changing climate, interacting with a broad range of stakeholders. What We Do Atmospheric Composition The Atmospheric Chemistry and Climate research projects at CCSR include the study of the chemical constituents of Earth’s atmosphere, and the roles they play in influencing the atmosphere’s temperature, radiation, and dynamics. Climate Impacts The climate impacts research group at CCSR works on the improved understanding of how climate affects human society, and involves development of a framework to analyze complex interactions among biophysical and socio-economic processes. Full List of Research Projects Recent Publication A Regional Nuclear Conflict Would Compromise Global Food Security Jonas Jagermeyr Alan Robock Joshua Elliott Christoph Muller Lili Xia Nikolay Khabarov Christian Folberth Erwin Schmid Wenfeng Liu Florian Zabel Sam S. Rabin Michael J. Puma Alison Heslin James Franke Ian Foster Senthold Asseng Charles G. Bardeen Owen B. Toon Cynthia Rosenzweig Full List of Publications News May 09, 2022 Cynthia Rosenzweig, adjunct senior research scientist and Erik Mencos, senior staff associate at CCSR hosted Workshop in Tarrytown, NY Dr. Cynthia Rosenzweig, adjunct senior research scientist and Erik Mencos, senior staff associate at CCSR hosted the 'Stone Barns-Columbia Climate School Partnership Think Tank Workshop' at the Stone Barns campus in Tarrytown, NY on May 9th, 2022. May 05, 2022 2022 World Food Prize Awarded to CCSR Scientist Cynthia Rosenzweig Dr. Cynthia Rosenzweig, adjunct senior research scientist at CCSR, was awarded the 2022 World Food Prize Laureate for her efforts to model the impact of climate change on global food production. Please click here for the full article. March 01, 2022 What the War in Ukraine Means for the World's Food Supply Dr. Puma is the director of the CCSR at Columbia University's Climate School, where he has done extensive research on global food security. Dr. Konar is an associate professor of civil and environmental engineering at the University of Illinois, where she studies food supply chains and their links to water use and sustainability. Please click here for the full article published at nytimes.com. More News Center for Climate Systems Research2880 Broadway · New York, NY 10025 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close