CCVA Program Now/Next Past About Visit Institution News Donate Publications Publications and Bookshop Building Art, Film, and Visual Studies Harvard Film Archive Film Study Center Architecture CCVA Program Now/Next Past About Visit Institution News Donate Publications Publications and Bookshop Building Art, Film, and Visual Studies Harvard Film Archive Film Study Center Architecture Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Art, Film, and Visual Studies 2022 Senior Thesis Exhibition: A Name For Our Reflections, on view April 30 - May 26, 2022, Level 1 and 3 Exhibition: B. Ingrid Olson: History Mother, Little Sister, on view July 22 - December 23, 2022. Image: B. Ingrid Olson, Equant and Run, with cartilage, 2017-20. Inkjet print and UV printed matboard in powder-coated aluminum frame. Courtesy of the artist and i8 Gallery, Reykjavík. Candice Lin: Seeping, Rotting, Resting Weeping. A publication that chronicles the creation of a newly commissioned body of work by Los Angeles–based artist Candice Lin during the COVID-19 pandemic. Carpenter Center Conversations. In Conversation: Candice Lin, C. Riley Snorton, and Hentyle Yapp. Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts. Building. Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts, ca. 1963. Visitor Information To ensure all of our visitors have a safe and enjoyable experience, please be aware of the following COVID-19 guidance: Masks are optional Proof of full COVID-19 vaccination or a negative COVID-19 PCR test administered within the previous 72 hours will be required for visiting the exhibition. If you are feeling unwell, are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms, please do not enter the galleries at this time. We look forward to your visit! Free and open to the public About Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts at Harvard University is housed in the only building in North America designed by Swiss-born architect Le Corbusier. It hosts the Department of Art, Film, and Visual Studies, exhibition spaces, and the Harvard Film Archive. Further Info Programs Explore Our Spring 2022 Public Programs Artist Talk: Candice Lin in Conversation with Diane Ahn and Carrie Lambert-Beatty February 22, 2022 7:00 pm – 8:30 pm Click HERE to Register Publications Making books with artists is central to the Carpenter Center’s mission. Our publishing program complements our commission-based curatorial program, with a focus on new scholarship and texts, and an artist-involved design process. Many of our books are co-published with our institutional collaborators, and they are distributed by D.A.P. Visit our Publications and Bookshop tab for more info! Art, Film, and Visual Studies Department of Art, Film, and Visual Studies is home to a range of studio and theoretical studies in the arts at Harvard University. It offers courses in painting, drawing, sculpture, film, video and animation as well as photography, film history and theory, and contemporary art. Visit AFVS Harvard Film Archive Harvard Film Archive presents films each week in a 200-seat theater featuring state-of-the-art film and digital projection, regularly hosting filmmakers to discuss their work. The archive holds over 25,000 audio and visual items from around the world and almost every period in film history. Now Showing Due to the COVID-19 crisis and in accordance with university and state guidelines, the Harvard Film Archive cinematheque and office will be closed until further notice. HFA staff are working remotely on a range of projects and preparing for an eventual reopening, most likely in 2021. While the physical location remains closed, some remote research services and select collections are available online. Visit HFA Harvard University 24 Quincy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 +1 617.496.5387 Email Newsletter Subscribe (privacy disclosure) Follow Us Facebook Instagram Flickr Twitter