Skip to main content Skip to footer People Projects Research Engage Events Updates Staff Students Affiliates Executive Committee Sponsored Projects Staff and Postdoctoral Fellow Projects DH Working Groups Data Curation Datasets Project Management Project Charters Resources Antiracism Indigenous DH Software developed by CDH Consultations Funding Data Fellowships Research Partnerships External Funding Humanities + Data Science Graduate Students Graduate Fellowships Humanities Data Teaching Fellows Project Management Fellowship Dissertation Prize Graduate Training Grants Undergraduates HC3 Senior Thesis Prize JUST Data Lab Opportunities Assistant Director Sr. Research Software Engineer Data Science Faculty Postdocs Speakers Co-Sponsor an Event " Updates Eight Researchers Awarded CDH Data Fellowships for 2022–23 Data Fellows learn about the analytical and technological practices of working with humanities data. " Updates CDH Announces Partnership with Seeger Center for Hellenic Studies The new collaboration is intended to support scholars interested in learning the analytical and technological practices of working with humanities data that aligns with the mission of Princeton’s Seeger Center. " Updates Congratulations to the 2022 CDH Senior Thesis Prize Honorees! Jessica Lambert ’22 won this year’s prize, with Charlotte Root ’22 earning an honorable mention. " Updates Introducing the 2022–23 CDH Research Partnerships Jeffrey Himpele (Anthropology) and Lara Buchak (Philosophy) will collaborate with the CDH on projects examining Princeton’s Lenapehoking history and risk and game theory, respectively. " Updates Milestones at the Machine Learning + Humanities Working Group The Working Group connects students and researchers from a variety of interests and disciplines, with the goal of exploring research questions and case studies in machine learning applied to the humanities. " Updates CDH Accepting Nominations for Senior Thesis & Dissertation Prizes The prizes recognize exceptional student work with a digital humanities component. About The Center for Digital Humanities at Princeton is an interdisciplinary research center that brings together faculty, staff, students, and community partners working at the intersection of the humanities and technology. We create and apply digital tools to humanistic questions and critically engage with the promises and risks that technology poses to society.Read More Request a Consultation Upcoming Events Next semester's events are being scheduled. Check back later or view past events. Projects Built by CDH Startwords A journal for experimental humanities research, irregularly published by the CDH. Built by CDH Princeton Prosody Archive Compelling users to rethink the past through a collection of historical prosodic works. Built by CDH Princeton Geniza Project Accessing the medieval Islamic world through digital tools New Languages for NLP: Building Linguistic Diversity in the Digital Humanities An NEH-funded workshop to help scholars use NLP for new languages About Annual Report History of the CDH Contact & Directions Subscribe to our newsletter + Home About Annual Report History of the CDH Contact & Directions + People Staff Students Affiliates Executive Committee + Projects Sponsored Projects Staff and Postdoctoral Fellow Projects DH Working Groups + Research Data Curation Project Management Resources Software developed by CDH + Engage Consultations Funding Graduate Students Undergraduates Opportunities + Events Speakers Co-Sponsor an Event Updates Center for Digital Humanities Firestone Library Floor B Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 ©2022 Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility Assistance v. 3.4.2