Skip to main content Skip to footer People Projects Research Engage Events Updates Staff Students Affiliates Executive Committee Sponsored Projects Staff and Postdoctoral Fellow Projects DH Working Groups Data Curation Datasets Project Management Project Charters Resources Antiracism Indigenous DH Software developed by CDH Consultations Funding Data Fellowships Research Partnerships External Funding Humanities + Data Science Graduate Students Graduate Fellowships Humanities Data Teaching Fellows Project Management Fellowship Dissertation Prize Graduate Training Grants Undergraduates HC3 Senior Thesis Prize JUST Data Lab Opportunities Assistant Director Sr. Research Software Engineer Data Science Faculty Postdocs Speakers Co-Sponsor an Event About The Center for Digital Humanities (CDH) is an interdisciplinary research center devoted to building knowledge infrastructures for the use of digital evidence, fostering communities of practice across disciplines and professions, and modeling critical approaches to the role of data and technology in research and daily life. Our team consists of developers, designers, scholars, writers, and teachers. Mission Statement The CDH is where humanities research intersects with data, computer and information science. We foster innovation in academic methodologies, technology design, and collaborative research practices. We believe that technology must act in the service of a more just future for humanity, and that the application of humanistic approaches enables the creation of better technology. We collaborate with faculty and graduate students, publish our own research, and model best practices in software development, UX design, data curation and project management. We are currently working on developing curricular pathways and certificate programs for undergraduates interested in the intersections of humanities, computation, and social justice. What We Do Research We partner with Princeton faculty, students, and fellow library colleagues to incubate innovative digital humanities projects at multiple stages of development - from small seed grants to peer reviewed, chartered projects involving our Development and Design Team and our Project Management methodology. Most CDH staff have 20% R&D time. Consultations Staff members consult on digital humanities projects at any stage of development to facilitate collaborations and connections on and off campus. Teaching CDH staff and affiliated researchers teach undergraduate and graduate-level DH courses. Undergraduate students can enroll in our Introduction to Digital Humanities course or pursue the path digital approaches to the humanities within the Humanistic Studies Certificate. Our Humanities Computing Curriculum Committee promotes the integration of scholarly approaches from the humanities and computer sciences in undergraduate curriculum. Graduate Student Training The CDH helps foster a vibrant digital humanities community among Princeton’s graduate students. We train graduate students in innovative computational analysis, research, and project management skills, and offer opportunities for scholarly and professional growth. Events The CDH hosts and co-hosts a wide range of events designed to bring greater awareness of digital humanities research methods and discoveries to the Princeton community. The center fosters discussion on campus and actively engages in debates about critical issues in the field. Subscribe to our newsletter + Home About Annual Report History of the CDH Contact & Directions + People Staff Students Affiliates Executive Committee + Projects Sponsored Projects Staff and Postdoctoral Fellow Projects DH Working Groups + Research Data Curation Project Management Resources Software developed by CDH + Engage Consultations Funding Graduate Students Undergraduates Opportunities + Events Speakers Co-Sponsor an Event Updates Center for Digital Humanities Firestone Library Floor B Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 ©2022 Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility Assistance v. 3.4.2