Skip to content Explore Digital Learning Division of Digital Learning Center for Distributed Learning Office of Instructional Resources Mobile Strategy & Innovation Pegasus Innovation Lab UCF Online Center for Distributed Learning Division of Digital Learning Navigation Menu Teach Online Explore Teach Online Welcome to Teach Online! We are here to help ensure your success teaching online. We recognize the importance of providing our faculty with essential training and resources. Teach Online contains the latest information on course design, professional development, and educational resources for UCF faculty who teach online or supplement face-to-face courses with online instruction. Let us keep you current on the latest advancements in teaching online, some of which are happening right here at UCF. Explore Teach Online Course Enhancements Enhance Your Online Course Enhancing your course with learning objects and activities will help to communicate course content beyond static readings and lectures. Discover the most suitable tools and enhancements for your course objectives. CDL Graphics – Need content visuals for your course? Video@CDL – Need video enhancements for your course? Skype for Business (Lync) – Learn how to best incorporate Skype into your online course Webcourses@UCF Integrations – Enhance your course with our custom in-house integrations Streaming Videos – Resources for streaming video Obojobo – Learning Objects, Reinvented! Materia – Gamify your course content Create Your Course Create Your Online Course Here you will find resources to guide the creation of a Webcourses@UCF course sections from start to finish. Request a Webcourses@UCF Course Section – Need a non-academic course? Semester Start-Up Guide – Start your course off right with this guide End of Semester Guide – End your course in style using this guide Effective Online Teaching Strategies Effective Teaching Online Strategies Successful online courses start with effective planning for overall design and outcomes. Here you will find resources about course design, course delivery, and best practices for using technology. Design Your Online Course – Best practices for online course design Copyright – Learn about copyright & fair use Media Message Design Tutorial – Evaluate your existing instructional materials Deliver Your Online Course – Best practices for course delivery Instructional Best Practices Using Technology – Make technology work for you Online Accessibility Online Accessibility Here you will find information and guides about creating and using accessible content for your Webcourses@UCF course section(s). Adhering to accessibility standards will not only benefit students with disabilities but will help assure that all of your students will be able to access and use your online content. What Is Online Accessibility? – Learn how to create accessible content Webcourses@UCF Page Formatting Guidelines – Create accessible content within Webcourses@UCF Word Document Formatting Guidelines – Create accessible content using MS Word Creating Accessible Multimedia – Create accessible video, audio, & other forms of multimedia Proactive Captioning for Online Courses – Request captions for your online (W) course in advance. PowerPoint Accessibility – Create accessible content using MS PowerPoint PDF Formatting Guidelines – Create accessible PDFs Text Formatting and Document Organization – Create accessible, text, graphics, headers, & tables Universal Design Online Content Inspection Tool (UDOIT) – Evaluate your course for accessibility issues & improvements Professional Development Professional Development Take your skills to the next level by completing any of our professional development courses. Learn the Essentials of Webcourses@UCF at your own pace, or enroll in our award winning IDL6543 course. Want more out of Teaching Online? Keep current with Faculty Seminars geared to making your Webcourses@UCF course a Chuck Dzuiban Award winner. Faculty Seminars in Online Teaching – Tips & tricks from UCF Instructional Designers & Faculty Essentials of Webcourses@UCF – Learn the ins & outs of Webcourses@UCF Webcourses@UCF Training – Visit us at CDL & work on your course with the tech support staff Teaching with Lecture Capture – Learn how to design & facilitate an online course with video HQR4444 – Prepare for a High Quality online course review Zoom Essentials – Learn how to teach with Zoom ADL5000 – Want to teach an existing online course? PAL6000 – Learn how to teach a personalized adaptive course IDL6543 – Start from scratch & learn how to design your own online course IDL7000 – Take your skills to the next level DLI7836: Digital Learning STEM Institute – Design your own online STEM course Resources for Teaching Online Additional Resources Here you will find many of the best practices compiled by the Center for Distributed Learning to help you link into new ideas about teaching online. The resources represent a compilation of those activities and techniques to help instructors plan their online and mixed mode courses. Instructional Designer Lookup Tool – Lookup & contact your Instructional Designer Let’s Talk About… A Web Video Series – A web video series about teaching online at UCF Tips for Faculty, from Faculty LinkedIn Learning – Explore LinkedIn Learning, free to UCF faculty, staff, & students UCF Financial Aid Requirement – Compliance guide for student engagement & financial aid Teaching Online Pedagogical Repository (TOPR) – A public resource for online & blended teaching strategies UCF Creed-Based Academic Integrity Commitment – Academic Integrity Commitment Quiz The Teaching Online Podcast (TOPcast) – Monthly podcast for online and blended learning professionals A Short Guide to DIY Videos – Learn how to create your own video lessons Objective Builder Tool – Build measurable learning objectives Universal Design Online Content Inspection Tool (UDOIT) – Automatically identify accessibility issues in your course Additional UCF faculty resources – Additional resources for UCF Faculty Personalized Adaptive Learning Personalized Adaptive Learning Personalized adaptive learning is a software that provides each student with an individualized learning experience by allowing them to progress along their unique learning path through the course content based on their knowledge, skills, and learning needs. Explore Personalized Adaptive Learning – Explore everything PAL PAL Faculty Spotlight PAL Learning Guides & Support – Get support PAL Publications and Media Exposure – See PAL at work PAL Design & Development Services – Explore PAL Services Recognizing Exemplary Teaching The Chuck D. Dziuban Award for Excellence in Online Teaching 2021 Dziuban Award Recipient – Ashley Taylor, M.F.A. 2020 Dziuban Award Recipient – Martha Hubertz, Ph.D. 2019 Dziuban Award Recipient – Jessica Waesche, Ph.D. View All Recipients The Barbara Truman Award for Excellence in Blended Teaching Get Support Webcourses@UCF Support Need Assistance? Experiencing a technical issue with Webcourses@UCF? We’re here to support our faculty, staff, and students with any technical errors, concerns, or questions with all online components supported by CDL. Whether it’s Webcourses@UCF, Panopto, Materia, or Obojobo, we got you covered. Submit a Support Ticket System Support Webcourses@UCF System Status Webcourses@UCF Announcements and Updates Webcourses@UCF Guides Webcourses@UCF Personalized Learning Guides Materia Guides Obojobo Guides Panopto Guides Respondus Guides Zoom Guides Additional Resources Special Programs at UCF Web Browser Requirements (SN Redirected) Student Perception of Instruction (SPI) Course Modalities and Attributes at UCF Student Support for Learning Online Student Support for Learning Online UCF recognizes that completing a college degree in a traditional classroom environment doesn't work for everyone. If you are looking for flexibility and convenience, taking fully online and blended classes means you can work toward a degree from practically anywhere. We are here to help you overcome the challenges you may encounter along the way so you can focus on your education. Get Help with Webcourses@UCF Explore Knights Online Discover Online Knights Online Proctored Exams at UCF Course Modalities and Attributes at UCF Search For Online Courses Resources and Services Technology Requirements Explore Online Programs UCF Online Student Support Additional Resources LinkedIn Learning Honor Your Knighthood Academic Calendar Information Literacy Webcourses@UCF Student Tour How to Login to Webcourses@UCF Faculty Support for Teaching Online Faculty Support for Teaching Online We recognize the importance of providing our faculty with essential training and resources for teaching online. Teach Online contains the latest information on course design, professional development, and educational resources for faculty. Let us keep you in the know and up to date on the latest advancements in teaching online. Connect with my Instructional Designer Get Help with Webcourses@UCF Additional Resources For Teaching Online Explore Teach Online UCF Financial Aid Requirement Semester Start-Up Guide Professional Development Webcourses@UCF Faculty Tour Start-of-Semester Student Message Draft (SN Redirected) How to Login to Webcourses@UCF Webcourses@UCF Training Faculty Multimedia Center About the Faculty Multimedia Center Make an FMC Appointment Screen Capture & Audio Recording at the FMC Media Technology Guide for Teaching Photography at the FMC Video Platform Support at the FMC Using the Lightboard at the FMC Live Chat Our Services What Can CDL Do for You? You know your subject matter, and we know how to help you deliver it online. Explore CDL Services and see how CDL can help you design, enhance, & deliver your next online course. Let us take your course to the next level! Instructional Support Services – Take your skills to the next level Professional Development Instructional Design Personalized Learning Technical Support Services – Having technical issues? We can help! Webcourses@UCF Support Multimedia Services – Need content visuals? We got this. CDL Video Services Graphic Services Proactive Captioning for Online Courses Our Initiatives Our Initiatives Learning Systems and Integrations Engage and Inspire Your Students with a growing library of games, applications, study tools, & learning aids. Materia is designed to help you diversify your students' online learning experience. Obojobo is UCF’s new online tool that provides a multifaceted interface capable of building, containing and utilizing instructional components. ProctorHub is a Webcourses@UCF integration that assists faculty members with quiz and exam authentication while helping to curb cheating. The Universal Design Online content Inspection Tool (UDOIT) enables faculty to identify accessibility issues in Webcourses@UCF. Explore All Webcourses@UCF Integrations Open Resource Communities Teaching Online Pedagogical Repository The University of Central Florida's (UCF) Center for Distributed Learning (CDL) offers the Teaching Online Pedagogical Repository (TOPR) as a public resource for faculty and instructional designers interested in online and blended teaching strategies. Teaching Online Preparation Toolkit The Teaching Online Preparation Toolkit (TOPkit) website is a comprehensive resource that provides the postsecondary community with the essential elements required to ensure a very high quality online faculty development program, including a sample course that may be imported into any learning management system and then customized. Blended Learning Toolkit This Blended Learning Toolkit is a free, open resource for educational institutions interested in developing or expanding their blended learning initiatives. Podcasts The Teaching Online Podcast (TOPcast), hosted by Dr. Thomas Cavanagh and Dr. Kelvin Thompson, is a monthly podcast for online and blended learning professionals conducted over a shared cup of coffee. Episode 114: Making Sense of COVID’s Ongoing Impact on Online Higher EdMay 16, 2022 Episode 113: The Three Students You Might Meet in Your Online ClassMay 2, 2022 Episode 112: SARA (and More!) Under SiegeApril 18, 2022 View All Episodes These stand-alone seminars are offered periodically for collegial dialogue around best practices in online teaching. They are co-presented by the Center for Distributed Learning and members of the UCF teaching faculty. Active Learning Across Modalities: Techniques for Fostering Active Learning in Online CoursesMarch 1, 2019 Strategies to Facilitate a Cross-Cultural and Inclusive Online EnvironmentSeptember 11, 2018 Leveraging OER: Creating an Affordable and Customized Student Learning ExperienceJune 19, 2018 View All Seminars Webcasts Assembling and Submitting a Packet for the Dziuban AwardAugust 16, 2019 Active Learning Across Modalities: Techniques for Fostering Active Learning in Online CoursesMarch 1, 2019 Strategies to Facilitate a Cross-Cultural and Inclusive Online EnvironmentSeptember 11, 2018 Assembling a Cohesive Packet for the Dziuban AwardAugust 17, 2018 Writing a Compelling NarrativeJune 27, 2018 Leveraging OER: Creating an Affordable and Customized Student Learning ExperienceJune 19, 2018 2018 Unizin Florida SummitMay 10, 2018 Creating a Video Textbook: Things We Could Never Do in ClassApril 25, 2018 Showcasing Student Learning GainsApril 5, 2018 Showing Evidence of Student Engagement OnlineMarch 15, 2018 Setting the Stage: Designing for Quality Online Learning ExperiencesFebruary 19, 2018 An Overview of Active Learning Practices in STEM DisciplinesJanuary 29, 2018 Services from the Office of Instructional ResourcesNovember 22, 2017 Creating Accessible Online ContentNovember 6, 2017 Projecting Your Online Persona Via VideoSeptember 15, 2017 View All Webcasts About Us About the Center for Distributed Learning The Center for Distributed Learning (CDL) serves as the central agent for online learning at UCF, providing leadership in distance learning policies, strategies, and practices. Our teams consist of motivated developers, creators, and dreamers dedicated to exploring new technology to enhance teaching and learning at UCF. Our Teams – Meet the CDL talent Administration CDL Graphics Faculty Multimedia Center Team Instructional Design Instructional Development Leadership Learning Systems & Technology LMS Admin Video@CDL Webcourses@UCF Support Discover CDL – See what we are all about Our Core Values Our Publications Our Awards Our Affiliations Our Migration to Canvas SREB Principles of Good Practice UCF Distributed Learning Guidelines Visit CDL Employment Opportunities – Join the team Search Open Positions & Internships Contact Us The New is Now the Norm Search Search We are the Center for Distributed Learning We are visionaries, dreamers, artists, and developers. We are here to help faculty build and deliver world-class online learning. We are proud UCF Knights. We are fervent advocates of high quality online learning, and it is our mission to support and develop the future of accessible education. As the central agent for online learning at UCF, we transform lives by making a high-quality UCF education available to anyone, anywhere, anytime through the innovative use of technology. We are the Center for Distributed Learning. Teach Online We are here to help ensure your success teaching online. We recognize the importance of providing our faculty with essential training and resources. Teach Online contains the latest information on course design, professional development, and educational resources for UCF faculty who teach online or supplement face-to-face courses with online instruction. Let us keep you current on the latest advancements in teaching online, some of which are happening right here at UCF. Popular Links Course Enhancements Resources for Teaching Online Professional Development Semester Start-Up Guide Explore Teach Online Webcourses@UCF Support We get it. Technology can have its challenges. We’re here to help. We provide support to our students, faculty, and staff for any technical errors, concerns, or questions related to online learning at UCF. Whether it’s Webcourses@UCF, Panopto, Materia, Obojobo, or Personalized Adaptive Learning, we have the assistance you need. Phone: (407) 823-0407 Email: webcourses@ucf.edu Online Support Form Support Hours: Monday - Friday, 8:30 am – 6:00 pm Evening/Weekend Support: Requests are handled in the order they are received. All responses are sent by email only. Search term Search Explore Support Services At CDL, it’s not about us—it’s about you. You know your subject matter, and we know how to help you deliver it online. Let us help you enhance your online courses to maximize every student’s success. With our wide variety of services, we have just what you need for your course, and maybe even an awesome surprise or two. Popular Links Multimedia Services Instructional Support Services Technical Support Services Research Support Services Explore Our Services Research Data, evaluation, and analysis are part of everything that we do. We collaborate with faculty to formulate and implement research on effective teaching practices. As technology evolves, our researchers track the ongoing impact of online and blended learning at UCF. Popular Links Distributed Learning Impact Evaluation Modality Statistics Explore Our Research About CDL The Center for Distributed Learning is more than a unit. Our teams consist of motivated developers, creators, and dreamers dedicated to exploring new technology to enhance teaching and learning at UCF. Each unique individual provides a fresh perspective to the growing landscape of online education, both here in Orlando and across the wider higher education community. Popular Links Our Teams Discover CDL Our Core Values Connect with Us Explore CDL Online Programs Having access to high-quality education, no matter where you are, can help make big dreams become reality. With more than 20 years of experience providing top online degrees, UCF is a trusted source for innovative education technology. Explore over 100 online degree programs and certificates through UCF Online. Explore UCF Online Check Out Our Other Initiatives The Teaching Online Preparation Toolkit (TOPkit) is a comprehensive resource that provides the postsecondary community with the essential elements required to ensure a very high quality online faculty development program. The Blended Learning Toolkit is a free, open resource for educational institutions interested in developing or expanding their blended learning initiatives. The Teaching Online Podcast (TOPcast) hosted by Dr. Thomas Cavanagh and Dr. Kelvin Thompson, is a monthly podcast for online and blended learning professionals conducted over a shared cup of coffee. The Teaching Online Pedagogical Repository (TOPR) is a public resource for faculty and instructional designers interested in online and blended teaching strategies. NCAT was an independent non-profit organization dedicated to the effective use of information technology to improve student learning outcomes and reduce the cost of higher education. Events & Updates Events No events found. More Events Media CDL Media Archives – Center for Distributed Learning Episode 114: Making Sense of COVID’s Ongoing Impact on Online Higher Ed Episode 113: The Three Students You Might Meet in Your Online Class Episode 112: SARA (and More!) Under Siege Episode 111: “Onlineness:” Necessity, Not Convenience Episode 110: The LMS: Institutional “Linchpin” Episode 109: Protecting Online Higher Education from the Great Resignation More Media Center for Distributed Learning Twitter Vimeo About CDL Contact Us Work@CDL Forms Sitemap © 2016 Center for Distributed Learning | University of Central Florida Navigation Menu Teach Online Back Course Enhancements Back CDL Graphics Video@CDL Skype for Business (Lync) Webcourses@UCF Integrations Streaming Videos Obojobo Materia Back Create Your Course Back Request a Webcourses@UCF Course Section Semester Start-Up Guide End of Semester Guide Back Effective Online Teaching Strategies Back Design Your Online Course Copyright Media Message Design Tutorial Deliver Your Online Course Instructional Best Practices Using Technology Back Online Accessibility Back What Is Online Accessibility? Webcourses@UCF Page Formatting Guidelines Word Document Formatting Guidelines Creating Accessible Multimedia Proactive Captioning for Online Courses PowerPoint Accessibility PDF Formatting Guidelines Text Formatting and Document Organization Universal Design Online Content Inspection Tool (UDOIT) Back Professional Development Back Faculty Seminars in Online Teaching Essentials of Webcourses@UCF Webcourses@UCF Training Teaching with Lecture Capture HQR4444 Zoom Essentials ADL5000 PAL6000 IDL6543 IDL7000 DLI7836: Digital Learning STEM Institute Back Resources for Teaching Online Back Instructional Designer Lookup Tool Let’s Talk About… A Web Video Series Tips for Faculty, from Faculty LinkedIn Learning UCF Financial Aid Requirement Teaching Online Pedagogical Repository (TOPR) UCF Creed-Based Academic Integrity Commitment The Teaching Online Podcast (TOPcast) A Short Guide to DIY Videos Objective Builder Tool Universal Design Online Content Inspection Tool (UDOIT) Additional UCF faculty resources Back Personalized Adaptive Learning Back Explore Personalized Adaptive Learning PAL Faculty Spotlight PAL Learning Guides & Support PAL Publications and Media Exposure PAL Design & Development Services Back Recognizing Exemplary Teaching Back The Chuck D. Dziuban Award for Excellence in Online Teaching Back Back The Barbara Truman Award for Excellence in Blended Teaching Back Back Get Support Back Webcourses@UCF Support Back System Support Back Webcourses@UCF System Status Webcourses@UCF Announcements and Updates Webcourses@UCF Guides Webcourses@UCF Personalized Learning Guides Materia Guides Obojobo Guides Panopto Guides Respondus Guides Zoom Guides Back Additional Resources Back Special Programs at UCF Web Browser Requirements (SN Redirected) Student Perception of Instruction (SPI) Course Modalities and Attributes at UCF Back Back Student Support for Learning Online Back Discover Online Back Knights Online Proctored Exams at UCF Course Modalities and Attributes at UCF Search For Online Courses Resources and Services Technology Requirements Explore Online Programs UCF Online Student Support Back Additional Resources Back LinkedIn Learning Honor Your Knighthood Academic Calendar Information Literacy Webcourses@UCF Student Tour How to Login to Webcourses@UCF Back Back Faculty Support for Teaching Online Back Additional Resources For Teaching Online Back Explore Teach Online UCF Financial Aid Requirement Semester Start-Up Guide Professional Development Webcourses@UCF Faculty Tour Start-of-Semester Student Message Draft (SN Redirected) How to Login to Webcourses@UCF Webcourses@UCF Training Back Back Faculty Multimedia Center Back About the Faculty Multimedia Center Make an FMC Appointment Screen Capture & Audio Recording at the FMC Media Technology Guide for Teaching Photography at the FMC Video Platform Support at the FMC Using the Lightboard at the FMC Back Back Our Services Back Instructional Support Services Back Professional Development Instructional Design Personalized Learning Back Technical Support Services Back Webcourses@UCF Support Back Multimedia Services Back CDL Video Services Graphic Services Proactive Captioning for Online Courses Back Back Our Initiatives About Us Back Our Teams Back Administration CDL Graphics Faculty Multimedia Center Team Instructional Design Instructional Development Leadership Learning Systems & Technology LMS Admin Video@CDL Webcourses@UCF Support Back Discover CDL Back Our Core Values Our Publications Our Awards Our Affiliations Our Migration to Canvas SREB Principles of Good Practice UCF Distributed Learning Guidelines Visit CDL Back Employment Opportunities Back Search Open Positions & Internships Back Contact Us Back