Skip to main content Social Media Links Skip to main content College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences UCR Home Search Quick Links Find People UC Riverside Center for Infectious Disease and Vector Research College of Natural & Agricultural Sciences Search About Welcome Message About CIDVR People Research Symposiums CIDVR Symposium SCEP Symposium Giving Contact UCR Home Quick Links Find People Welcome to CIDVR Center for Infectious Disease and Vector Research The Center for Infectious Disease Vector Research (CIDVR), established in 2005 by Entomologist and Biochemist Alexander Raikhel as part of the UCR Institute for Integrative Genome Biology (IIGB), incorporates the most rapidly developing areas of biological research, such as genomics, proteomics, metabolic, bioinformatics and systems-based approaches, into infectious disease and vector biology. Read More Our Mission The mission of the Center for Disease and Vector Research is to develop and implement technologies that will alleviate the medical and economic burden exacted by infectious diseases and vector-borne diseases in humans and plants. The Center achieves this through cross-disciplinary research by combining expertise in molecular biology, nanotechnology, gene silencing and the genomics-based sciences with expertise in insect pest control. Our goal is to provide practical solutions within therapeutic and economic time frames. Give to CIDVR UC Riverside's comprehensive $300 million campaign focused on Social Innovation and Empowerment Give Upcoming Symposiums Registration is required CIDVR Symposium SCEP Symposium March 11, 2022 Malaria parasite’s survival linked to two proteins Malaria, a mosquito-borne disease, killed more than 620,000 people worldwide in 2020. Jeopardizing the survival of Plasmodium falciparum, the malaria parasite, is one way to control the spread of this deadly disease. A team led by an infectious disease expert... Read More » July 13, 2019 Researchers to Target Mosquito Egg Production to Curtail Disease RIVERSIDE, Calif. — Entomologists at the University of California, Riverside have received a five-year grant of $2.44 million from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, or NIAID, to investigate the role hormones play in the female mosquito’s ability... Read More » February 04, 2019 Genome structure of malaria parasites linked to virulence An international research team led by scientists at the University of California, Riverside, and the La Jolla Institute for Immunology has found that malaria parasite genomes are shaped by parasite-specific gene families, and that this genome organization strongly correlates with... Read More » January 02, 2018 Genetic changes help mosquitoes survive pesticide attacks For decades, chemical pesticides have been the most important way of controlling insects like the Anopheles mosquito species that spreads malaria to humans. Unfortunately, the bugs have fought back, evolving genetic shields to protect themselves and their offspring from future... Read More » Archived News Start your #cidvr journey today University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Center for Infectious Disease and Vector Research Multidisciplinary Research Building (MRB) #3139 Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-5422 alt tel: (951) 827-5934 email: karine.leroch@ucr.edu Find Us COLLEGE OF NATURAL & AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES CNAS Dean's Office Geology Building, Room 2258 900 University Ave Riverside, CA 92521 Related Links About People Research Contact CNAS Home Give Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Let us help you with your search × Enter your Search Criteria Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel