Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Civil and Environmental Engineering Menu Close Home About Welcome From The Chair Vision and Mission Accreditation and Assessment BSCE Objectives and Outcomes BSEnvE Objectives and Outcomes Facilities Visitor Information Prospective Students What Do Civil and Environmental Engineers Do? Problems We Solve Undergraduate Students Graduate Students School Profile & Rankings Student Organizations Continuing Education Academics Undergraduate Studies Bachelor's in Civil Engineering Bachelor's in Environmental Engineering Global Engineering Leadership Minor Enhancing Your Degree Research Contact Us Graduate Studies Master's Students Ph.D. Program BS/MS Degree Program Graduate Student Advisory Council Contact Us Hyatt Speaker Series International Initiatives International Travel Funding GOLD Mentoring Program Engineering Communication Program Academic Groups Entrepreneurial Impact Competition Research Interdisciplinary Research Healthy Communities Resilient Infrastructure Smart Cities Sustainable Communities Research Centers Faculty Research Pages Academic Groups People Alumni External Advisory Board Corporate Affiliates Program GOLD Mentoring Program Alumni Events Stay in Touch Giving to CEE News Newsletters Publications Video Events News Archive Intranet Apply ▸ Give ▸ Contact ▸ Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Search This SiteAll of Georgia Tech Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Research Interdisciplinary Research Resilient Infrastructure In late December 2004, the most-devastating tsunami in recorded history swept ashore in Sumatra, Indonesia, wiping entire communities off the map. Across the Indian Ocean in Somalia, the same wave inundated the coastline hours later. The eventual death toll? A quarter of a million people in 11 countries. Millions more were left without homes. And the United Nations pegged the cost to rebuild north of $12 billion. A few months later, Hurricane Katrina surged into the Gulf of Mexico and grew to a Category 3 storm with maximum sustained winds of 125 mph (this, after scraping across the Florida peninsula as a weak Category 1). The wind and storm surge crippled the port city of New Orleans, where levies were unable to hold back Lake Pontchartrain. Eighty percent of the city flooded. Across the Gulf Coast, 1,200 people died from the storm. The cost of damage? A staggering $108 billion, making it the costliest hurricane ever to hit the United States. In 2010, an earthquake in the Caribbean rattled the island nation of Haiti. Buildings crumbled as though made of paper. All told, at least 220,000 people died — maybe more. And the United Nations put the cost, in terms of physical damage and economic impact, at $7.8 billion. Taking into account Haiti’s yearly economic output, that ranks the earthquake as the most costly disaster a country has ever suffered. Some of these events, we can see coming. Hurricane forecasting has greatly improved in recent decades, for instance. But with earthquakes, tsunamis, landslides, tornadoes — much work remains to better understand and predict the events and their consequences. In either case, how to harden our built environment to withstand nature’s fury or at least minimize the resulting human impacts remains a key objective. Man-made disasters like war are another matter entirely, but their consequences are strikingly similar, and they pose the same kinds of engineering challenges: how and where do we rebuild? How do we design infrastructure and human systems that can revive a functioning society once the originating event has passed? In the 21st century, our world faces escalating economic and human devastation from all types of disasters, but CEEatGT researchers are focused on key questions that will help our communities become more resilient in the face of these costs: We are improving the resilience of our infrastructure and creating smarter infrastructure systems to protect vital lifelines that help us recover after a disaster. We are working to understand our interdependent infrastructure systems and how those systems react to cascading hazards, not just a single event. We are working to develop systems that pinpoint the damage to our built environment, both to identify key areas of need in the immediate aftermath and to help us plan for future events. We are working to better predict nature’s fury and forecast the effect on our societies, which includes improving our approach to collecting data before, during and after an event. We are working to understand the human psychology and response to all forms of disasters, including why people behaved as they did before an event and why they made rebuilding and recovery decisions afterward. We are working to harness — and create — new sources of data while innovating our analysis of that data to enhance our resilience. And we must consider sustainability as we enhance the resilience of our communities, conserving energy and resources and protecting the natural environment. EXAMPLE PROJECTS Alternative Cementitious Materials for Development of the Next Generation of Sustainable Transportation Infrastructure – Researchers are performing a comprehensive and systematic investigation of novel alternative cementitious materials (ACMs) for applications in sustainable transportation infrastructure. These cements include calcium aluminate, calcium sulfoaluminate, calcium sulfoaluminate belite, magnesium phosphate, and alkali-activated and carbonate-binder systems that provide potential advantages over traditional portland cement through reductions in embodied energy and greenhouse gases, as well as enhanced performance, which contributes to sustainability. The research includes evaluation of early-age and long-term material properties, in addition to multiscale durability investigations. The research team aims to provide guidance for recommended test methods and, where relevant, test limits for acceptance of ACMs for transportation infrastructure, including highway structures and rigid pavements, as well as preliminary specifications for use. Sponsor: Federal Highway Administration Principal Investigator: Kimberly Kurtis Assessment of High Early Strength Limestone Blended Cement for Next Generation Transportation Structures – This research effort is aimed at evaluating the effects of increasing ground limestone addition rates and in particular high fineness blended cements developed for high early strength in precast concrete construction. Assessment of key material properties (e.g., setting time, strength development, shrinkage, creep, permeability) relevant to the construction, operation, and maintenance of transportation structures will be the focus. Results will be used to better understand the implications of changes in cement compositions and to provide guidance of how these changes can or should be accommodated in state and federal specifications for precast concrete elements intended for transportation structures. Sponsor: National Center for Transportation Systems Productivity and Management Principal Investigator: Kimberly Kurtis CAREER: Decentralized Monitoring and Control for Large-Scale Smart Structures with Wireless and Mobile Sensor Networks – The research objective of this Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) award is to discover a series of decentralized substructure-based monitoring and control approaches using wireless and mobile sensor networks. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: Yang Wang CAREER: Multiphysics Damage and Healing of Rocks for Performance Enhancement of Geo-Storage Systems – A Bottom-Up Research and Education Approach – This Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program grant will enhance engineers' understanding of the formation and healing of rock fractures as it pertains to underground energy and waste storage systems, while providing undergraduate students from a diverse background with both research and international collaboration experiences. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: Chloe Arson CAREER: Role of Symmetry in the Properties of Nanostructures: A First Principles Approach – This Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) program will develop an inexpensive high-fidelity computational framework for the accelerated discovery of nanostructures with unprecedented properties that can be tailored to technological applications. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: Phanish Suryanarayana EFRI-RESIN: Sustainable Infrastructures for Energy and Water Supply (SINEWS) – The goal of this project is to develop a comprehensive understanding of the sustainability and resilience of the water and energy systems, and to offer solutions that span infrastructure design, management of the physical environment, and socioeconomic policy. RESIN Supplement: Catalyzing New International Collaboration on Sustainable and Resilient Urban Infrastructure with Chinese Partners Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: John Crittenden ERC: Center for Bio-mediated and Bio-inspired Geotechnics – This National Science Foundation Engineering Research Center explores what nature can teach us about the way we practice geotechnical engineer. The discoveries researchers make could mean significant improvements in how we clean up environmental contamination, harden structures against natural and man-made disasters, make infrastructure construction more efficient, or improve the effectiveness of natural resource recovery operations. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Co-Principal Investigator: David Frost Hydraulically Controlled Tensile Testing of Ultra High Performance Concrete for High-Rate Applications Sponsor: U.S. Army Small Business Innovation Research Program Principal Investigator: Lauren Stewart Impact of LRFD Seismic Bridge Design for Georgia – The project objective is to conduct a thorough review of the Georgia Department of Transportation load and resistance factor design (LRFD) policies regarding seismic design and related design programs, and make recommendations for improving the policies and design procedures. Sponsor: Georgia Department of Transportation Principal Investigator: Reginald DesRoches Co-Principal Investigator: Iris Tien Innovative Seismic Retrofits for Resilient and Sustainable Reinforced-Concrete Buildings – The goal of this proposed project is to validate, via innovative large-scale field testing, a new class of retrofits for reinforced concrete buildings. Five retrofit measures will be investigated to achieve this goal, consisting of novel bracing systems, beam-column connection elements, and/or columns wraps. The project brings together a diverse group of experts from civil engineering, materials science, sensing and damage detection, risk analysis, and seismic design. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: Reginald DesRoches Co-Principal Investigator: Yang Wang Load and Resistance Factor Design Specifications for Steel Box Sections – Evaluation and synthesis of fundamental limit states responses of steel box section members and development of unified AASHTO Load and Resistance Factor Design provisions for these member types. Sponsor: Federal Highway Administration Principal Investigator: Donald White Multi-Physics Coupled Wireless Antenna Sensor for Structural Health Monitoring – An innovative, battery-free wireless antenna sensor to achieve high-fidelity strain/crack sensing. Highly inter-disciplinary multi-physics modeling, simulation, and experiments with coupled electromagnetics and mechanics. Sponsor: Air Force Office of Scientific Research Young Investigator Research Program Principal Investigator: Yang Wang Multi-Scale Modeling Framework for the Assessment and Control of Resilient Interdependent Critical Infrastructure Systems – This project will create a novel modeling framework to assess and control interdependent critical infrastructure systems (ICIs). Infrastructure systems are critical to the functioning of our society, and the services they deliver form the backbone of the health, safety, and security of our nation. These systems are complex, comprised of many interdependent components. Further, these systems are interdependent, with the performance of one system dependent on the performance of one or more of the others. This leaves ICIs vulnerable to a variety of hazards, both natural and manmade. This project will study how to improve the resilience of these systems, with the recognition that achieving resilience will be a shared responsibility among stakeholders. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: Iris Tien Photocatalytic NOx Oxidation & Ion Exchange: New Strategies Toward Functional Corrosion Resistant Concrete Infrastructure – Reinforced concrete structures exposed to sea water or de-icing salts are susceptible to the corrosion of embedded steel due to the ingress of chloride ions. Such corrosion results in deterioration, reduces the service life of structures, and poses a burden to the national economy. Despite extensive efforts, our current methods of corrosion protection remain either too expensive or unable to prevent corrosion actions. This research develops a new strategy that utilizes visible light to decompose air pollutants into chemical agents that can suppress steel corrosion in concrete structures. Such environmentally sustainable solutions are critical to maintain large, widespread and durable infrastructure — a critical driver of economic growth. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: Kimberly Kurtis Regional Industrial Structure, Economic Resilience and Energy Consumption: Comparative Evaluation, Historical Analysis and Pathway towards a More Sustainable Economy – Understanding of how regional economic activities and energy use interact with each other is incomplete. We need to better understand these interactions to be able to develop a more sustainable economy. The project will comprehensively evaluate the economic impact and the rebound effect of increased energy efficiency (e.g., energy use for lighting has increased with every increase in lighting efficiency) by introducing the concept of structural adjustment cost (SAC) into the computable general equilibrium CGE model. The study will also investigate how the impact of an energy efficiency shock diffuses through the entire economic system accounting for industry interaction and compare the heterogeneous impact of the same shock on states with different resilience rankings. SEES: Interactions of Food Systems with Water and Energy Systems Supplement (FEW): Opportunities, Challenges, and Implications of a Nutrient Grid – The project is developing a systems dynamics model of complex urban infrastructure systems, then using it to quantify the resilience of urban infrastructure systems for each of four urban development strategies independently and in combination: 1) low impact development, 2) combined cooling, heating, and power systems, 3) electrification of transportation, and 4) urban farming. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Co-Principal Investigator: John Crittenden Resilient Interdependent Infrastructure Processes and Systems: Participatory Modeling of Complex Urban Infrastructure Systems (Model Urban SysTems) – This project is designed to develop the theory that infrastructure systems, with their many interdependencies and complex adaptations, have many similarities to ecological systems. Insights will be useful in the future development of tools and methods for design and evaluation of urban infrastructure systems and their resilience under stresses such as climate change, urban growth patterns and extreme weather events. Subproject: Assess community resilience from mixed-use, transit-oriented development (TOD) with innovative technologies for water-energy-transportation (WET) infrastructure systems Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: John Crittenden Risk Informed Decision Making for Maintenance of Deteriorating Distribution Poles Under Extreme Wind Hazard – This work will advance the state-of-the-knowledge and practice in cost-effective maintenance of distribution poles by developing a risk-informed decision making framework for maintenance of the poles. This framework uses fragility analysis techniques to estimate the conditional probability of failure of various species and classes of distribution poles given the intensity measure of the extreme winds. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: Reginald DesRoches Simulation Laboratory for Techniques for Naval Shock Qualification Sponsor: U.S. Navy via ROI Defense Associates Principal Investigator: Lauren Stewart SRN: Integrated Urban Infrastructure Solutions for Environmentally Sustainable, Health and Livable Cities – This National Science Foundation Sustainability Research Network is working to reimagine infrastructure — energy grids, road networks, green spaces, and food and water systems — to create cities that are highly functional, that promote the health of residents and the environment, and that have the intangible “vibe” that makes them desirable places to live and work. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Co-Principal Investigator: Armistead Russell U.S.-China: Systems-Based Approaches for Sustainable Steel Manufacturing – This U.S.-China project will create a systems-based approach to reducing environmental impacts of manufacturing. The approach will be centered on design and operation of eco-industrial parks (EIPs). The methods to be developed focus on systems-based modeling and analysis in order to understand and manage the complexity of sustainable manufacturing. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Co-Principal Investigator: John Crittenden PEOPLE Baabak Ashuri Economic decision analysis of resilient and sustainable infrastructure systems John Crittenden Infrastructure ecology, sustainable and resilient urban infrastructures, managing the complexity of urban systems, urban modeling and assessment Reginald DesRoches Earthquake resistant design and smart systems Hermann Fritz Natural hazard mitigation and risk analysis, tsunamis, subaerial and submarine landslides and oceanic volcano island collapses, hurricane storm surges and coastal flooding David Frost Sustainable subsurface infrastructure Laurie Garrow Travel behavior analysis and forecasting, application and estimation of advanced discrete choice models, airline passenger behavior, data analytics T. Russell Gentry Load bearing materials and systems, energy impacts of buildings, life cycle assessment in architectural practice Barry Goodno Earthquake engineering, structural dynamics, mechanics of materials, hybrid control of structures, influence of nonstructural components on building response Kimberly Kurtis Sustainable infrastructure materials, development of novel methods for multiscale characterization of materials Paul Mayne In situ geotechnical testing, foundation design, load and resistance factor design, soil liquefaction, cone penetrometer testing Lauren Stewart Blast engineering, mechanical shock and impact, hazards engineering John Taylor Civil engineering network dynamics, urban sustainability, building informatics, disaster resilience, smart cities Iris Tien Structural and infrastructure reliability, sensing and data analytics, systems modeling, probabilistic risk assessment, decision making under uncertainty Jingfeng Wang Remote sensing of hydrologic variables, climate change assessments and adaptation planning Yang Wang Smart infrastructure systems, structural sensing and control Donald White Limit states performance of steel and composite steel-concrete structural systems RELATED COURSES Advanced Dynamics and Smart Structures Advanced Structural Steel Design Building Economics & Value Engineering Decision Analysis & Risk Management Durability of Cement-based Materials Earthquake Engineering Analysis and Design Infrastructure Failure Analysis International Disaster Reconnaissance Introduction to NDT and Forensic Evaluation in Engineering Materials and Structures Materials Science of Concrete Multi-Hazard Design Remaking Cities Risk and Uncertainty in Engineering Systems Structural Dynamics Structural Reliability Sustainability Engineering Sustainable Cities Sustainable Subsurface Infrastructure RELATED NEWS Investing in America’s infrastructure: Faculty weigh in on what to address in proposed infrastructure legislation Garrow Elected President of Airline Group Georgia Tech Team Wins $1 Million Grant to Lead University Transportation Center LISTEN: Simulating blasts in labs, Stewart leading the research more news PEOPLE Adjo A. Amekudzi-Kennedy Associate Chair for Global Engineering Leadership and Entrepreneurship,... Baabak Ashuri Professor John Crittenden Director, Brook Byers Institute for Sustainable Systems, Hightower Chair... Sheng Dai Associate Professor & Group Coordinator Reginald DesRoches External Adjunct Professor Hermann M. Fritz Professor J. David Frost Elizabeth and Bill Higginbotham Professor Laurie A. Garrow Professor T. Russell Gentry Internal Adjunct Associate Professor Barry Goodno Professor Emeritus Kimberly E. Kurtis Associate Dean for Faculty Development and Scholarship & Professor Paul W. Mayne Professor Emeritus Lauren Stewart Williams Family Early-Career Professor, Director of the Structural... John E. Taylor Associate Chair for Graduate Programs and Research Innovation &... Iris Tien Williams Family Associate Professor Yang Wang Professor & Group Coordinator; Adjunct Professor (ECE) Jingfeng Wang Associate Professor Donald W. White Professor Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS What Civil & Environmental Engineers Do Undergraduate FAQs Graduate FAQs Costs & Financial Aid Student Organizations Continuing Education Newsletters Apply Now CURRENT STUDENTS Mundy Study Abroad Funding Higginbotham Beyond the Classroom Experience Fund GOLD Mentoring Program Student Organizations Graduate Student Handbook Undergrad Forms Master's Student Forms Ph.D. Student Forms Academic Calendar Buzzport DegreeWorks On-Campus Jobs Intranet Login ALUMNI Hyatt Distinguished Leadership Speaker Series Corporate Affiliates Program Alumni Events Newsletters Alumni Career Services Continuing Education Georgia Tech Alumni Association School of Civil and Environmental Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Mason Building, 790 Atlantic Drive, Atlanta, GA 30332-0355 Phone: 404-894-2201 Fax: 404-894-2278 College of Engineering Statement of Ethics and Integrity Job Opportunities Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology