Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Civil and Environmental Engineering Menu Close Home About Welcome From The Chair Vision and Mission Accreditation and Assessment BSCE Objectives and Outcomes BSEnvE Objectives and Outcomes Facilities Visitor Information Prospective Students What Do Civil and Environmental Engineers Do? Problems We Solve Undergraduate Students Graduate Students School Profile & Rankings Student Organizations Continuing Education Academics Undergraduate Studies Bachelor's in Civil Engineering Bachelor's in Environmental Engineering Global Engineering Leadership Minor Enhancing Your Degree Research Contact Us Graduate Studies Master's Students Ph.D. Program BS/MS Degree Program Graduate Student Advisory Council Contact Us Hyatt Speaker Series International Initiatives International Travel Funding GOLD Mentoring Program Engineering Communication Program Academic Groups Entrepreneurial Impact Competition Research Interdisciplinary Research Healthy Communities Resilient Infrastructure Smart Cities Sustainable Communities Research Centers Faculty Research Pages Academic Groups People Alumni External Advisory Board Corporate Affiliates Program GOLD Mentoring Program Alumni Events Stay in Touch Giving to CEE News Newsletters Publications Video Events News Archive Intranet Apply ▸ Give ▸ Contact ▸ Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Search This SiteAll of Georgia Tech Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Research Interdisciplinary Research Smart Cities The amount of data generated around the world has exploded. It’s available in volume and quality unmatched in human history. And this is just the beginning: Some estimates say the digital universe — currently 3.2 zettabytes — will grow to 40 zettabytes in just half a decade. (A zettabyte is about a billion terabytes.) Our civil and environmental engineers are working to harness the potential of all this data with novel data-harvesting techniques — from wireless sensors to unmanned aerial vehicles — while also creating new ways to process, analyze, visualize and use that information. Take, for example, our urban infrastructure, which is among the most complex systems in the world. It mixes the various man-made systems (transportation, water, power and telecommunications, to name a few) with natural systems (oceans, air, forests and more) as well as the social systems that enable our societies to function (everything from schools and the economy to the justice system and healthcare). Modeling these “systems-of-systems” will require managing data at an unprecedented scale. For some perspective, consider a 2014 survey from Forrester Research that asked businesses how much of the data they possess they’re actually using. Most companies estimated just 12 percent. The remaining 88 percent could contain vital insights. Or it could be noise. Without the right tools to use it, data itself means little. That’s why CEEatGT researchers are imaging groundbreaking means of using the data we have — and the new forms of data we’re inventing — for the betterment of humanity and the environment: We are monitoring how our transportation systems perform and how people use them so we can make better decisions about how we get from place to place and what infrastructure we’ll need to do it. We are effectively modeling future scenarios for city and regional infrastructure development to determine how and where we should grow as well as what will be required to meet the needs of future generations. We are instrumenting our interconnected infrastructure systems so we can assess their health, correct weaknesses, catch problems before they happen and prioritize our limited repair and replacement expenditures. And we are capturing the interdependencies between systems to predict cascading failures and implement mitigation measures to reduce losses during disruptions and facilitate community recovery. EXAMPLE PROJECTS CAREER: Decentralized Monitoring and Control for Large-Scale Smart Structures with Wireless and Mobile Sensor Networks - The research objective of this Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) award is to discover a series of decentralized substructure-based monitoring and control approaches using wireless and mobile sensor networks. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: Yang Wang Cycle Atlanta – Cycle Atlanta is an application for iPhone and Android that collects data about cyclists’ routes, origins, destinations, demographics and features of note in the city of Atlanta. This allows transportation planners to see which roads are avoided and which are popular and subsequently use this information to inform decisions about where infrastructure is needed to create bike-friendly routes through the city. Sponsors: Georgia Tech GVU Center, Georgia Tech Institute for People and Technology, City of Atlanta, Southeastern Transportation Research Innovation Development and Education Center, Georgia Department of Transportation Principal Investigator: Kari Watkins Field Validation of a Drive-By Bridge Inspection System with Wireless BWIM + NDE Devices - In this project, a wireless sensor network will be investigated for installation on a heavy truck to record the dynamic response of the truck as it crosses a bridge mounted with BWIM+NDE devices. The sensors installed in the vehicle include accelerometers to measure vibration and gyroscopes to capture vehicle pitching motion. As the instrumented vehicle approaches the bridge, BWIM+NDE system wirelessly establishes communication with wireless sensors on the vehicle to synchronize time and initiate data collection. As the truck crosses the bridge, the wireless sensors on the truck transmit vibration and pitching data to the wireless BWIM+NDE server for automatic integration with bridge response data. Experimental validation of the proposed wireless system will be performed both in the lab and in the field. Sponsor: National Center for Transportation Systems Productivity and Management, Georgia Department of Transportation, Alabama Department of Transportation Principal Investigator: Yang Wang, Laurence Jacobs Low-Cost Self-Powered Wireless Nanosensors for Real-Time Structural Integrity Monitoring of Steel Bridges – With steel bridges representing approximately 34 percent of the nearly 600,000 highway bridges in the United States, continual monitoring and early detection of deterioration in these structures is vital to prevent expensive repairs or catastrophic failures. Developing a solution for autonomous crack monitoring is the goal of Sponsor: Federal Highway Administration Principal Investigator: Yang Wang Multi-Physics Coupled Wireless Antenna Sensor for Structural Health Monitoring - An innovative, battery-free wireless antenna sensor to achieve high-fidelity strain/crack sensing. Highly inter-disciplinary multi-physics modeling, simulation, and experiments with coupled electromagnetics and mechanics. Sponsor: Air Force Office of Scientific Research Young Investigator Research Program Principal Investigator: Yang Wang Multi-Scale Modeling Framework for the Assessment and Control of Resilient Interdependent Critical Infrastructure Systems – This project will create a novel modeling framework to assess and control interdependent critical infrastructure systems (ICIs). Infrastructure systems are critical to the functioning of our society, and the services they deliver form the backbone of the health, safety, and security of our nation. These systems are complex, comprised of many interdependent components. Further, these systems are interdependent, with the performance of one system dependent on the performance of one or more of the others. This leaves ICIs vulnerable to a variety of hazards, both natural and manmade. This project will study how to improve the resilience of these systems, with the recognition that achieving resilience will be a shared responsibility among stakeholders. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: Iris Tien OneBusAway – OneBusAway is an open-source coded, real-time transit information system for riders now available in almost a dozen cities. The primary use is to provide next vehicle countdown information via smartphone applications, a website, phone number, and SMS interface for text messaging. The underlying goal is to reduce the burden of using public transportation and thereby increase rider satisfaction and increase transit ridership. Sponsors: Georgia Tech GVU Center, Georgia Tech Institute for People and Technology, National Center for Transportation Systems Productivity and Management, Woodruff Foundation, Sound Transit Principal Investigator: Kari Watkins Resilient Interdependent Infrastructure Processes and Systems: Participatory Modeling of Complex Urban Infrastructure Systems (Model Urban SysTems) - This project is designed to develop the theory that infrastructure systems, with their many interdependencies and complex adaptations, have many similarities to ecological systems. Insights will be useful in the future development of tools and methods for design and evaluation of urban infrastructure systems and their resilience under stresses such as climate change, urban growth patterns and extreme weather events. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Principal Investigator: John Crittenden SRN: Integrated Urban Infrastructure Solutions for Environmentally Sustainable, Health and Livable Cities - This National Science Foundation Sustainability Research Network is working to reimagine infrastructure — energy grids, road networks, green spaces, and food and water systems — to create cities that are highly functional, that promote the health of residents and the environment, and that have the intangible “vibe” that makes them desirable places to live and work. Sponsor: National Science Foundation Co-Principal Investigator: Armistead Russell PEOPLE Baabak Ashuri Economic decision analysis of resilient and sustainable infrastructure systems Samuel Coogan Autonomous systems, transportation networks, cyber-physical systems, control theory, formal methods. Laurie Garrow Travel behavior analysis and forecasting, application and estimation of advanced discrete choice models, airline passenger behavior, data analytics Aris Georgakakos Remote sensing of hydrologic variables, integrated water, energy and environmental planning and management, climate change assessments and adaptation planning Randall Guensler Vehicle activity monitoring, air quality modeling, environmental policy analysis Michael Hunter Traffic science and engineering, traffic simulation, traffic safety Laurence Jacobs Signal processing techniques applied to nondestructive evaluation, development of acoustic sensors for condition monitoring of structural components Kimberly Kurtis Sustainable infrastructure materials, development of novel methods for multiscale characterization of materials Patricia Mokhtarian Travel behavior, influence of the built environment on physical activity and travel by various modes, influence of information and communication technology on travel Catherine Ross Urban systems planning, urban planning, quality growth, megaregions Armistead Russell Air pollution modeling, health effects of air pollutants, environmental economics and control strategy design, computer modeling, numerical modeling John Taylor Civil engineering network dynamics, urban sustainability, building informatics, disaster resilience, smart cities Iris Tien Structural and infrastructure reliability, sensing and data analytics, systems modeling, probabilistic risk assessment, decision making under uncertainty James Tsai Sensor and information technology applications in infrastructure management Jinfeng Wang Remote sensing of hydrologic variables, climate change assessments and adaptation planning Yang Wang Smart infrastructure systems, structural sensing and control Kari Watkins Smart and sustainable transportation, traveler information, modal decision data, transit planning and operations RELATED COURSES Advanced Dynamics and Smart Structures GIS in Transportation Infrastructure Systems Management Remaking Cities Sustainable Cities Sustainable Transportation Abroad Sustainable Urban Development Traffic Engineering Transit Planning and Operations Travel Demand Analysis Urban Transportation Planning RELATED NEWS Trends to Watch in 2022 Valdosta Traffic Calming and Connectivity Project Selected as Finalist for World Smart Cities Awards Georgia Tech Researchers Receive $2.5 Million Grant to Focus on Improving Atlanta-Area Transportation Through Holistic Community Approach Garrow Elected President of Airline Group more news PEOPLE Adjo A. Amekudzi-Kennedy Associate Chair for Global Engineering Leadership and Entrepreneurship,... Baabak Ashuri Professor Joe F. Bozeman III Assistant Professor Laurie A. Garrow Professor Aris P. Georgakakos Professor and Director, Georgia Water Resources Institute Randall L. Guensler Professor & Group Coordinator Angshuman Guin Senior Research Engineer Michael P. Hunter Professor Laurence J. Jacobs Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Professor Kimberly E. Kurtis Associate Dean for Faculty Development and Scholarship & Professor Patricia L. Mokhtarian Clifford and William Greene, Jr. Professor Catherine Ross Adjunct Professor Armistead G. Russell Howard T. Tellepsen Chair, Regents Professor & Group Coordinator John E. Taylor Associate Chair for Graduate Programs and Research Innovation &... Iris Tien Williams Family Associate Professor Yi-Chang James Tsai Professor Yang Wang Professor & Group Coordinator; Adjunct Professor (ECE) Jingfeng Wang Associate Professor Kari E. Watkins Frederick Law Olmsted Associate Professor Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS What Civil & Environmental Engineers Do Undergraduate FAQs Graduate FAQs Costs & Financial Aid Student Organizations Continuing Education Newsletters Apply Now CURRENT STUDENTS Mundy Study Abroad Funding Higginbotham Beyond the Classroom Experience Fund GOLD Mentoring Program Student Organizations Graduate Student Handbook Undergrad Forms Master's Student Forms Ph.D. Student Forms Academic Calendar Buzzport DegreeWorks On-Campus Jobs Intranet Login ALUMNI Hyatt Distinguished Leadership Speaker Series Corporate Affiliates Program Alumni Events Newsletters Alumni Career Services Continuing Education Georgia Tech Alumni Association School of Civil and Environmental Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Mason Building, 790 Atlantic Drive, Atlanta, GA 30332-0355 Phone: 404-894-2201 Fax: 404-894-2278 College of Engineering Statement of Ethics and Integrity Job Opportunities Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology