Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Civil, Environmental & Architectural Engineering School of Engineering Search form Search Home About Why CEAE? Our Department News Archive Academics Degrees Architectural Engineering BS ARCE Overview Mission Statement & Program Educational Objective Student Outcomes Careers Degree Requirements Scholarships MS ARCE Overview Degree Requirements Design Option Admission Financial Aid PhD Mission Statement Civil Engineering BSCE Civil or Envr Emph Overview Mission Statement & Program Educational Objective Student Outcomes Degree Requirements Combined C.E & Business Careers Scholarships MCE Overview Degree Requirements Admission MSCE Overview Degree Requirements Design Option Admission Financial Aid PhD Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid Construction Engineering and Management MCM Overview Degree Requirements Admission MCE Overview Degree Requirements Admission MS ARCE Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid MSCE Overview Degree Requirements Design Option Admission Financial Aid PhD Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid Environmental and Water Resources Engineering BSCE Environmental Emphasis Overview Mission Statement & Program Educational Objective Student Outcomes Degree Requirements Combined C.E & Business Careers Scholarships MS ENVR-WR Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid PhD ENVR-WR Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid Environmental and Water Resources Science MS EWRS Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid PhD EWRS Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid MS EWRS PhD EWRS Graduate Certificates Construction Management Overview Courses and Requirements Admission Structural Analysis Overview Courses and Requirements Admission Structural Design Overview Courses and Requirements Admission Structural Forensics Overview Courses and Requirements Admission Water Resources Overview Courses and Requirements Admission B.S. - General Civil or Environmental Emphasis PhD In Architectural Engineering Doctoral Program Profiles Advising Tuition Calculator Admission Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Learn More Research Facilities Opportunities Research Centers Rail Research People Faculty List Alphabetical List Construction Management Faculty Engineered Building Systems Environmental and Water Resources Geotechnical Engineering Structural Engineering Transportation Staff Emeritus Faculty Lecturers Advisory Board Student Resources Departmental Scholarships Engineering Scholarships Graduate Funding Graduation Checklist Student Organizations Course Listings Forms Alumni & Friends Our Alumni Continuing Education Where in the World Giving to CEAE Menu Home About Why CEAE? Our Department News Archive Academics Degrees Architectural Engineering BS ARCE Overview Mission Statement & Program Educational Objective Student Outcomes Careers Degree Requirements Scholarships MS ARCE Overview Degree Requirements Design Option Admission Financial Aid PhD Mission Statement Civil Engineering BSCE Civil or Envr Emph Overview Mission Statement & Program Educational Objective Student Outcomes Degree Requirements Combined C.E & Business Careers Scholarships MCE Overview Degree Requirements Admission MSCE Overview Degree Requirements Design Option Admission Financial Aid PhD Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid Construction Engineering and Management MCM Overview Degree Requirements Admission MCE Overview Degree Requirements Admission MS ARCE Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid MSCE Overview Degree Requirements Design Option Admission Financial Aid PhD Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid Environmental and Water Resources Engineering BSCE Environmental Emphasis Overview Mission Statement & Program Educational Objective Student Outcomes Degree Requirements Combined C.E & Business Careers Scholarships MS ENVR-WR Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid PhD ENVR-WR Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid Environmental and Water Resources Science MS EWRS Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid PhD EWRS Overview Degree Requirements Admission Financial Aid MS EWRS PhD EWRS Graduate Certificates Construction Management Overview Courses and Requirements Admission Structural Analysis Overview Courses and Requirements Admission Structural Design Overview Courses and Requirements Admission Structural Forensics Overview Courses and Requirements Admission Water Resources Overview Courses and Requirements Admission B.S. - General Civil or Environmental Emphasis PhD In Architectural Engineering Doctoral Program Profiles Advising Tuition Calculator Admission Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Learn More Research Facilities Opportunities Research Centers Rail Research People Faculty List Alphabetical List Construction Management Faculty Engineered Building Systems Environmental and Water Resources Geotechnical Engineering Structural Engineering Transportation Staff Emeritus Faculty Lecturers Advisory Board Student Resources Departmental Scholarships Engineering Scholarships Graduate Funding Graduation Checklist Student Organizations Course Listings Forms Alumni & Friends Our Alumni Continuing Education Where in the World Giving to CEAE Search Search form Search Home Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificates The certificate program enables students to broaden and deepen their knowledge in the area of construction management, structural engineering, and water resources by learning the most up-to-date theory and techniques used in practice. The certificate program offers an opportunity for practicing engineers to enhance their skills without necessarily completing a Master’s degree. The program consists of four courses (12 credit-hours). Construction Management Structural Analysis Structural Design Structural Forensics Water Resources Construction Management The objective of the certificate program is to allow students to broaden and deepen their knowledge in the area of Construction Engineering and Management, while learning the most up-to-date theory and techniques used in practice. The certificate program offers an opportunity for engineering and science practitioners to enhance their skills in Construction Engineering and Management without having to apply for and complete a Master’s degree. The program consists of four courses (12 credit hours). Courses and Requirements Four (4) courses from the selected list are required to complete the certificate. Courses satisfying the Certificate Requirements: CMGT 700 Construction Project Management CMGT 701 Construction Planning and Scheduling CMGT 702 Construction Equipment and Methods CMGT 703 Construction Quality, Productivity, and Safety CMGT 704 Construction Estimating and Bidding CMGT 705 Construction Contracts, Bonds, and Insurance CMGT 707 Engineering Risk and Decision Analysis CE 895 Advanced Special Topics: Alternative Project Delivery Methods The completion requirements of the graduate certificate in Construction Engineering and Management include: (a) the minimum grade for any course to be applied toward the certificate is a grade of B; and (b) no credits may be transferred from another institution for this certificate. Admission Requirements A bachelor’s degree in engineering with a GPA of 3.0 or better is required for admission to this graduate certificate program. Here’s how to apply. Structural Analysis This certificate program focuses on the analytical evaluation of structural systems and components. It enables students to broaden and deepen their knowledge in this area of structural engineering by learning the most up-to-date theory and techniques used in practice. The Structural Analysis Graduate Certificate has a basis in computational structural analysis techniques, with optional courses in a variety of advanced analysis areas. The certificate program offers an opportunity for practicing engineers to enhance their structural analysis skills without necessarily completing a Master’s degree. The program consists of four courses (12 credit-hours). Course Requirements Four courses are required to complete the certificate, two of which are mandatory. Students select the remaining two courses from the list of additional accepted courses. Mandatory Courses: CE 761 Matrix Analysis of Framed Structures CE 861 Finite Element Methods for Solid Mechanics Additional Courses Satisfying Certificate Requirements: CE 704 Dynamics and Vibrations CE 710 Structural Mechanics CE 800 Theory of Elasticity CE 801 Energy Methods CE 810 Theory of Elastic Stability CE 864 Seismic Performance of Structures CE 869 Plates and Shells The minimum grade for any course to be applied toward the certificate is a grade of B. No credits may be transferred from another institution for this certificate. Admission A bachelor’s degree in engineering with a grade-point average of 3.0 or better is required for admission to this graduate certificate program. Here’s how to apply. Structural Design This certificate program focuses on the design of structural components and systems. It enables students to broaden and deepen their knowledge in this area of structural engineering by learning the most up-to-date code-based theory and design practice. The Structural Design Graduate Certificate has a basis in steel and concrete building design, with optional courses applying to various materials, structures, and applications. The certificate program offers an opportunity for practicing engineers to enhance their structural design skills without necessarily completing a Master’s degree. The program consists of four courses (12 credit-hours). Courses and Requirements Four courses are required to complete the certificate, two of which are mandatory. Students select the remaining two courses from the list of additional accepted courses. Mandatory Courses: CE 764 Advanced Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures CE 765 Advanced Steel Design- Building Structures Additional Courses Satisfying Certificate Requirements: CE 763 Design of Prestressed Concrete Structures CE 766 Advanced Steel Design- Bridge Structures CE 768 Design of Timber Structures CE 769 Design of Masonry Structures CE 865 Structural Design for Dynamic Loads The minimum grade for any course to be applied toward the certificate is a grade of B. No credits may be transferred from another institution for this certificate. Admission A bachelor’s degree in engineering with a grade-point average of 3.0 or better is required for admission to this graduate certificate program. Here’s how to apply. Structural Forensics This certificate program focuses on the forensic analysis of structural components and systems. It enables students to broaden and deepen their knowledge in this area of structural engineering by learning to identify, mitigate, and prevent common shortcomings and degradation that can threaten the integrity and serviceability of structures. The Structural Forensics Graduate Certificate has a basis in materials analysis with optional courses applying to experimental analysis and structural health monitoring. The certificate program offers an opportunity for practicing engineers to enhance their ability to identify and correct structural engineering failures without necessarily completing a Master’s degree. The program consists of four courses (12 credit-hours). Courses and Requirements Four courses are required to complete the certificate. Students select four courses from the following list: CE 712 Structural Engineering Materials CE 715 Corrosion Engineering CE 721 Experimental Stress Analysis CE 767 Introduction to Fracture Mechanics CE 895 Experimental Structural Dynamics The minimum grade for any course to be applied toward the certificate is a grade of B. No credits may be transferred from another institution for this certificate. Admission A bachelor’s degree in engineering with a grade-point average of 3.0 or better is required for admission to this graduate certificate program. Here’s how to apply. Water Resources This certificate program enables students to broaden and deepen their knowledge in the area of Water Resources while learning the most up-to-date theory and techniques used in practice. The certificate program offers an opportunity for practicing engineers to enhance their skills in Water Resources without necessarily completing a Master’s degree. The program consists of four courses (12 credit-hours). Courses and Requirements Four courses are required to complete the certificate. Students select four courses from the following list: CE 751 Physical Hydrology CE 752 Physical Hydrogeology CE 753 Chemical and Microbial Hydrogeology CE 754 Contaminant Transport CE 755 Free Surface Flow I CE 756 Wetlands Hydrology and Introduction to Management CE 757 Pipe-Flow Systems CE 760 Stochastic Hydrology CE 775 Stormwater Treatment Systems Design CE 776 Water Reuse CE 855 Free Surface Flow II CE 857 Sediment Transport The minimum grade for any course to be applied toward the certificate is a grade of B. No credits may be transferred from another institution for this certificate. Admission A bachelor’s degree in engineering with a grade-point average of 3.0 or better is required for admission to this graduate certificate program. Here’s how to apply. Department News May 25, 2022 Alum, Charles K. Nmai named President of ACI March 7, 2022 Several awards from the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) to the University of Kansas School of Engineering will enable research to improve and lengthen the life of bridges, a critical part of American infrastructure February 3, 2022 Professor Will Collins Named Recipient of the 2022 Robert J. Dexter Memorial Award Lecture Read more Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Follow KU CEAE CEAE Links CEAE Conferences CEAE Newsletters CEAE Student Organizations Professional Development Series Tiberti Lecture Series Where in the World Give to KU » Contact Civil, Environmental & Architectural Engineering ceae@ku.edu 785-864-3766 2150 Learned Hall 1530 W. 15th St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Fax:785-864-5631 The Architectural Engineering Bachelor of Science program and the Civil Engineering Bachelor of Science program are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org/. Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login