Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar SearchSearch Center for East Asian Studies Home About Academics Events Outreach Opportunities ACMS Resources SearchSearch Welcome The Center for East Asian Studies supports the study of East Asia at Penn and to the Philadelphia community. Outreach Activities We currently offer a program in which Penn experts present one-hour lectures to classes on a variety of topics pertaining to East Asia, at no cost to your school. For more information and to request a speaker please contact the Center. Student Activities Members of Nihon Hidankyo, Confederation of A- and H-Bomb Sufferers Organizations, recount their personal experiences of surviving the Atomic bombs in Hiroshima and Nagasaki 70 years ago to a large audience from Penn, high school, and the Philadelphia communities. K-12 Teacher Professional Development CEAS offers a number of workshops for K-12 educators on East Asia-related topics, as well as globally themed content. Wed 7/6 Sakura Collection Japanese textile Fashion Design Award show 3:00 pm Iron Gate Theatre (3700 Chestnut St) Application deadline extended to May 25, 2022. > CEAS Faculty in Media Rebecca Mendelson was featured in Penn Today. See here for the Penn Today article. Congratulations! Read More » Highlights Tomoko Takami was honored recently as she was elected President of the American Association of Teachers of Japanese Congratulations Tomoko for being elected and also being featured in a Japanese-language interview as part of a small project interviewing language teachers around the Featured News Attention K-12 educators: Register now for CEAS/NCTA Summer mini-seminar "Understanding Contemporary China: Perspectives from the Periphery" CEAS will be administering a 2-day virtual mini-seminar: "Understanding Contemporary China: Perspectives from the periphery." The program is open and free to teachers (in fact teachers who complete both days will receive books and resources for their classrooms as well!) Guest speakers will inclu Read More » Center for East Asian Studies 642 Williams Hall University of Pennsylvania 255 South 36th Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6305 Facebook Twitter PHONE 215.573.4203 FAX 215.573.2561 EMAIL ceas@sas.upenn.edu Sign up for our mailing list © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn WebLogin