Skip to main content Search form Main Menu Sub Menu About CEAS History News Galleries Video Playlist Contact CEAS People Council Members Faculty Faculty, Retired Visiting Faculty & Scholars Postdoctoral Associates M.A. Students Staff CEAS Associates in Research CEAS Affiliates In Memoriam Academics Undergraduate Program Goals of the Major Major Requirements The Senior Essay Requirement Deadlines Honors & Prizes Information for Undergraduate Students Frequently Asked Questions EAST Majors Directory Graduate Program Degree Requirements M.A. Thesis Guidelines Admissions Information for Graduate Students Frequently Asked Questions Courses Fellowships & Grants CEAS Student Grants CEAS Dissertation Research Fellowships Richard U. Light Fellowship MacMillan Center CIPE Study Abroad & Language Programs Approved Sites Abroad IUP - Chinese Language Study IUC - Japanese Language Study KCJS - Japanese Language Study IARU Global Summer Program Preferred Yale Partners International Internships Postdoctoral Program Frequently Asked Questions Current Associates Past Associates Events Resources Join Our Email List CEAS Video Playlist Japanese History at Yale Digital Tokugawa Lab Buddhist Studies Initiative Japan’s Global Baroque, 1550–1650 Samurai face guard and helmet, adorned with golden sea urchins Welcome CEAS is Yale’s interdisciplinary hub for the study of all aspects of East Asia and its constituent peoples, cultures, and societies. For sixty years, its mission has been to support scholarship of the highest level across the humanities and social sciences, and to facilitate deeper understanding of the region at Yale and beyond. Home to the University’s undergraduate major and Master’s program in East Asian Studies, CEAS hosts a wide range of speakers, events and visiting scholars throughout the year; offers a competitive Postdoctoral Associates Program; and provides a generous array of grants and fellowships. More… As the public health crisis associated with the Coronavirus pandemic continues to unfold, the Council on East Asian Studies wishes to reiterate its firm stance against all forms of racism and xenophobia. Recent statements by the Association for Asian American Studies and the President of the Association for Asian Studies contain useful resources both for those directly affected by harassment and those who are concerned about it. If you find yourself in an emergency situation, call 911. For non-emergencies call Yale Police Department at 203-432-4400. Other campus support include deans’ designees and the Office of Institutional Equity and Access. Resources for Asian and AAPI Students Experiencing COVID-19 Related Harassment Treating Yellow Peril: Resources to Address Coronavirus Racism Upcoming Events Saturday, Jun. 4th 8:00 PM via Zoom K-16 Chinese Workshop Series for the AP Chinese Course and Exam Henry Ruan, Chinese Language Instructor, The Loomis Chaffee School; Board... View more upcoming events 2021-2022 Williams Prize Award The Council on East Asian Studies is happy to announce the winners of the 2022 Williams Prize Competition: Stella Xu (Berkeley College) for her essay submitted to the East Asian Studies Program, "Hands Join Across Polluted Waters: Translocal Solidarity and Tsuchimoto Noriaki’s Minamata Films." Isabella Yang (Saybrook College) for her essay submitted to the Department of History, "Wang Xitian and the Chinese Experience in Imperial Tokyo, 1899-1923: Class, Violence, and the Formation of a New National Consciousness." More ... Undergraduate Program If you like studying Chinese, Japanese, or Korean and if you are interested in learning about East Asia in the past, present, and future from the world’s top experts; consider majoring or double-majoring in East Asian Studies! More… Graduate Program If you are interested in a multi-disciplinary approach to the the study of China, Japan, or a transnational region within East Asia at the graduate level, then the M.A. degree program in East Asian Studies at Yale is for you! More … Postdoctoral Program Are you a promising young scholar specializing in East Asia looking to come to Yale to pursue research, prepare your dissertation for publication, and gain experience teaching seminars to undergraduates? More… About CEAS History News Galleries Video Playlist Contact CEAS People Council Members Faculty Faculty, Retired Visiting Faculty & Scholars Postdoctoral Associates M.A. Students Staff CEAS Associates in Research CEAS Affiliates In Memoriam Academics Undergraduate Program Goals of the Major Major Requirements The Senior Essay Requirement Deadlines Honors & Prizes Information for Undergraduate Students Frequently Asked Questions EAST Majors Directory Graduate Program Degree Requirements M.A. Thesis Guidelines Admissions Information for Graduate Students Frequently Asked Questions Courses Fellowships & Grants CEAS Student Grants CEAS Dissertation Research Fellowships Richard U. Light Fellowship MacMillan Center CIPE Study Abroad & Language Programs Approved Sites Abroad IUP - Chinese Language Study IUC - Japanese Language Study KCJS - Japanese Language Study IARU Global Summer Program Preferred Yale Partners International Internships Postdoctoral Program Frequently Asked Questions Current Associates Past Associates Events Resources Join Our Email List Yale University Copyright © 2018 Council on East Asian Studies at the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale · All rights reserved CEAS · Room 320, Henry R. Luce Hall, 34 Hillhouse Avenue · New Haven, CT 06511 phone: 203-432-3426 · fax: 203-432-3430 · eastasian.studies@yale.edu (link sends e-mail) Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy