The Clemson Vehicular Electronics Laboratory (CVEL) was active between 2006 and 2017 under the direction of Dr. Todd H. Hubing, Michelin Professor of Vehicle Electronic Systems Integration. The lab conducted targeted research related to automotive and aerospace vehicle electronics including electronic components, circuits, sensors, communications, power distribution and mechatronics with an emphasis on systems integration, electromagnetic compatibility and modeling. The lab was located in the Carroll A. Campbell Jr. Graduate Engineering Center on the campus of the Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR). This website is being preserved and maintained as a resource for information and tools related to automotive electronics and electromagnetic compatibility. Site Organization This site has four main sections. The automotive electronics section includes tutorials and information relevant to electronic systems in cars, trucks, tanks, submarines, ships and various other land and water vehicles powered by gasoline, fuel cells, batteries or hybrid systems. The aerospace electronics section is devoted to electronics in air and space vehicles. Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) plays an extremely important role is the development and maintenance of the electronic systems in all vehicular designs and therefore an entire section of the web site is devoted to EMC and the control of conducted and radiated electromagnetic interference (EMI), including intentional electromagnetic interference (IEMI). This section includes links to several tutorials and a collection of "EMC Design Guidelines" on the LearnEMC website. Finally there is a section devoted to electromagnetic modeling. Computational electromagnetic modeling tools are becoming an increasingly important part of the automotive and aerospace electronics design process. This section describes the tools that are available and provides tutorial information for people who are just getting started in EM modeling. Information on our laboratory can be accessed using the links in the sidebar on the left. These links include descriptions of some of our current projects as well as an overview of our staff, facilities and services. (last update: April 19, 2022 ) Contact Us If you have comments or suggestions, please contact us at CVEL-L@clemson.edu.