Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services CECH right arrow down arrow About CECH right arrow down arrow Headlines Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening right arrow down arrow CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships right arrow down arrow Action Research Center (ARC) right arrow down arrow What We Do Who we are Get Involved Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability right arrow down arrow Contact Us Donate Early Childhood Education Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) right arrow down arrow About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Publications Center for English as a Second Language right arrow down arrow ESL Placement Tests ESL Placement Guide ESL Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) right arrow down arrow Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture right arrow down arrow About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) right arrow down arrow Services Contact Training Institutes Products Resources COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center right arrow down arrow Services Selected Projects Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science right arrow down arrow Contact ICS Team Upward Bound right arrow down arrow About Us Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity right arrow down arrow Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative right arrow down arrow Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support right arrow down arrow Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources right arrow down arrow Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Student Recruitment and Marketing right arrow down arrow Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo right arrow down arrow Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean Academic Schools right arrow down arrow School of Education right arrow down arrow About the School of Education right arrow down arrow Research Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Early Childhood Education Online- Associates Early Childhood Education and Development- Minor Early Childhood Education- Online (Birth-Age 5) Early Childhood Education (Preschool- Grade 5) Human Development and Community Engagement Middle Childhood Education Secondary Education Special Education CDA Professional Development Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Curriculum and Instruction- Online Curriculum and Instruction - Onsite Educational Studies Educational Studies Ph.D. Educational Leadership- Online Instructional Design and Technology Literacy and Second Language Studies -Online Special Education- Online Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) - Online Urban Educational Leadership, EdD Forms Certificates and Endorsements right arrow down arrow Autism Spectrum Disorders - Online Blended and Online Learning and Teaching (BOLT) Certificate | Online Deaf Studies Endorsement- Early Childhood Generalist Endorsement Education for Environmental Sustainability Digital Learning Design Gifted Education Endorsement & Certificate Higher Education Leadership Certificate | Onsite Jewish Education Certificate | Onsite Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) -Online Middle Childhood Generalist Endorsement Postsecondary Literacy Instruction Certificate - Online Endorsement- PreK-12 Reading Instruction Certificate Special Education Leadership Certificate -Online STEM Teaching and Learning - Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Certificate Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) | Online TESOL K-12 Undergraduate Certificate Professional Development right arrow down arrow Teacher Resources Professional Development Resources License Renewal Courses FAQ Our Faculty and Staff Office of Educator Preparation right arrow down arrow Office of Field Experiences CAEP Accreditation Tk20 Professional Cohort Admissions Information Advancement & Transition Services right arrow down arrow About ATS Collaboration for Employment and Education Synergy Transition & Access Program Certificate IMPACT Innovation ATS News and Upcoming Events ATS Community Partners & Employment Giving Opportunities Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Community Volunteer Opportunities Research Opportunities Programs on Campus Scientific Research in Children's Literacy Lab Teacher Resources Teacher Awards Our Faculty and Staff UC BIPOC Teacher Pathway School of Criminal Justice right arrow down arrow Criminal Justice Career Expo right arrow down arrow Event Information Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Bachelors of Science in Paralegal Studies Minor- Criminal Justice Minor- Paralegal Studies Certificate- Forensic Populations Certificate- Foundations of Cybersecurity Certificate- Paralegal Studies Certificate - Correctional Rehabilitation Certificate- Crime and Intelligence Analysis Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Criminal Justice- Ph.D. Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate Analysis of Criminal Behavior Graduate Certificate Special Programs and Courses Undergraduate Research right arrow down arrow Application FAQ Testimonial Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Alpha Phi Sigma Criminal Justice Society Alumni right arrow down arrow Stay in Touch Contact Us Research right arrow down arrow Centers and Institutes Ph.D. Dissertations Our Faculty and Staff Summer Enrollment Courses School of Human Services right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Exercise Science Health Promotion and Education - Minor Public Health Public Health - Minor Sport Administration Sport Administration Minor Sport Coaching Certificate Sport Media and Promotion Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Online program Substance Abuse Prevention Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Certificate Violence Prevention in Families, Schools, & Community Certificate Yoga Studies Certificate Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Behavior Analysis Professional Certificate Online Counseling Graduate Programs School Psychology Graduate Programs Health Promotion and Education Graduate Programs Master of Science in Sport Administration Master of Education in Foundations in Behavior Analysis Student Resources Real World Connections Our Staff & Faculty Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow About the School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Information Technology Graduate Certificates Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program Course Descriptions Centers right arrow down arrow IT Solutions Center IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events right arrow down arrow 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students right arrow down arrow Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program right arrow down arrow Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo right arrow down arrow Senior Design Advisors News People right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community right arrow down arrow Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Programs and Degrees Future Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students right arrow down arrow Events right arrow down arrow Be Series Transfer and Transition Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Events Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Events Military and Veteran Students Scholarships & Funding Family & Parent Resources right arrow down arrow Future CECH Students Current CECH Students Virtual Map Tour Teachers and Guidance Counselor Resources right arrow down arrow Resources Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Services Center right arrow down arrow What is Advising Academic Policies Applications right arrow down arrow Readmission or change of College Change of Program within CECH Certificate or Minor Application Find Your CECH Academic Advisor right arrow down arrow CECH Student Services Staff Directory Gainful Employment Licensure Application Information Location Parent Resources Scholarships & Funding right arrow down arrow CECH Undergraduate Scholarships Student Resources Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Association (GSA) Study Abroad CECH right arrow down arrow Study Abroad Scholarship App More Info CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor CECH Scholarships & Recipients right arrow down arrow CECH Scholarship Donor Request Scholarship Application FAQS CECH Mentor & Volunteer Opportunities Alumni and Giving right arrow down arrow Alumni Engagement Contact Us Distinguished Alumni right arrow down arrow Past Distinguished Alumni Giving Opportunities right arrow down arrow Ways to Give right arrow down arrow Types of Gifts CECH Giving Priorities COVID-19 College Updates UC CECH » About CECH » Student Recruitment and Marketing » CECH Brand Guide Set Navigation title in component Student Recruitment and Marketing Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Headlines Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships Action Research Center (ARC) What We Do Events Research and Publications ECAR Dissertations Who we are ECAR Faculty and Students Organizations & Partnerships Get Involved Join the ARC Listserv Join the ARC Advisory Committee Contact The ARC Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability Contact Us Visit Us Arlitt Staff Donate Early Childhood Education Arlitt Child Development Center Academic Programs & Opportunities for Students Research Recent Projects and Publications Opportunities for Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Data Resources Request a Report Publications Grad Publications Center for English as a Second Language ESL Placement Tests Oral English Proficiency Test for Visiting Scholars (OEPT-VS) Oral English Proficiency Test for International Teaching Assistants (OEPT-ITA) ESL English Placement Test (ESL ENPT) ESL Placement Guide ESL Placement for Graduate Students English Placement for Undergraduate Students ESL Courses Summer Courses Academic Year Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) Services Research Development Practice Outcomes Contact Staff Faculty Fellows Dr. Lori Brusman-Lovins Dr. Jennifer Hartman Dr. Alex Holsinger Dr. Debi Koetzle Dr. Shelley Listwan Dr. Brian Lovins Dr. Matthew Makarios Dr. AJ Myer Dr. Jennifer Pealer Dr. Kim Sperber Dr. Charlene Taylor Dr. Alex Piquero Dr. Jessica J. Warner Dr. Ronen Ziv Dr. Kevin Knight Dr. Jennifer L. Skeem Contractors Training Institutes Products Assessments E-Learning Fidelity Interventions Group Interventions Individual Interventions Evaluations Resources Partners News Back On Track CNVC Grant Epics- I Webinar CSG Partnership Publications COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center Services Selected Projects Evaluation in Practice: Assessing Improvement in STEM Education Testimonials Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science Contact ICS Team Upward Bound About Us Additional Resources Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean CECH Brand Guide Our brand strategy focuses our narrative and brings out our strengths. These guiding fundamentals are the foundation for all brand communications and design. College Logo Lockups UC Branding Colors UC Standard Fonts Merchandise and Licensed Goods Photography College Logo Our logo is dynamic and unleashed. It is both foward-thinking and established as it places priority on Cincinnati, conveying pride and strength of place. Locate a specific college lockup in the Downloadable Assets section. Primary Brandmark The logo is staged on white, red, or black. When placing on photography, find quiet areas within the composition that provide contrast and legibility. University of Cincinnati, College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Service primary logo [black text and red monogram on a white field] University of Cincinnati, College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services primary logo [white text and monogram on a red field] University of Cincinnati, College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services primary logo [white text and red monogram on a black field] Incorrect Usage Do not: shift the logo elements alter the fonts alter the brand colors place the logo or symbol alone in a line of text skew, stretch or distort add effects place on complex backgrounds add an outline change proportion or alignment. Lockups “Lockups” connect college names and other major units and programs to the university master brand. Lockups are not appropriate for every unit nor for every communication. Please review the following guidelines before considering a lockup. Academic Units right arrow down arrow Formal and informal lockups have been created for all colleges and are available for download and immediate use. In most cases, the college-level lockup or the UC logo alone will be the most appropriate mark for all academic communication. However, colleges are free to allow —or not allow— the use of departmental or smaller unit lockups. All such lockups must be approved by the appropriate college dean. It is strongly recommended that colleges seek guidance from their internal communications staff and/or the Brand Review Committee prior to proposing smaller unit lockups. Non-Academic Units right arrow down arrow In most cases, the UC logo alone will be the most appropriate mark. Non-academic units should avoid using lockups. Divisions and larger, umbrella units are free to allow —or not allow— the development and use of lockups, both at the division and smaller unit level. All non-academic lockups must be approved by the appropriate division head, VP or leadership team. In addition, it is strongly recommended that non-academic units seek guidance from the Brand Review Committee prior to proposing a unit lockup. To determine whether a lockup is warranted, consider and be prepared to articulate the following: Is it meaningful and necessary to the target audience? How? Why? Can identifying or acknowledging a particular service or program be accomplished through messaging? What is gained —or lost— with a lockup over use of the UC logo alone? Does the unit have a retail or commercial mission? Lockups Do's and Don'ts right arrow down arrow It is never wrong to use the UC/CECH logo alone, with the unit name elsewhere in the communication. If more than one unit needs to be acknowledged in the communication, use the UC/CECH logo alone. Do not use two lockups in the same communication. Lockups must follow the prescribed template for font, type size, spacing and color. Lockups replace all typographical arrangements for college names, even those previously approved. Seek guidance from the Brand Review Committee. Lockups are not allowed on standard business communication such as letterhead, business cards and forms. Standard business communication uses the UC/CECH logo alone. UC Branding Colors Flat Colors PMS 186C CMYK: 0.100.81.4 RGB: 224.1.34 HSB: 350.92.80 Hex: #e00122 100% Black CMYK: 100.100.100.100 RGB: 0.0.0 HSB: 0.0.0 Hex: #000000 0% Black CMYK: 0.0.0.0 RGB: 255.255.255 HSB: 0.0.100 Hex: #ffffff UC Standard Fonts Typography extends the visual expression of our brand character and supports our tone of voice in text form. In addition, Myriad and Minion remain acceptable for use. Open Sans is the acceptable (free) substitute. Links will direct to GoogleFonts, which is a legitimate typography foundry for typefaces. Open Sans Typeface Download Opens Sans Font Gentium Book Basic Typeface Download Gentium Book Basic Font The University Seal University seal The seal is an important pillar of our heritage. The University Seal, adopted in 1904 from the City of Cincinnati insignia, is legally restricted for use on official documents of the university. Consequently, references to the seal in this guide apply only to reproductions or facsimiles of the seal. Reproduction of the seal is restricted to presidential or Board-related purposes and in recognition of certain prestigious scholarly achievements such as a diploma. The seal is also appropriate for permanent markers, such as architectural elements produced in stone, metal or glass, and for regalia and class rings, subject to licensing approval. Use of the seal must be approved by the division of Governmental Relations and University Communications or by the Brand Review Committee. The “Alternate Seal” is for use on plaques, clothing, gift items, and merchandise. Use is restricted for licensed goods. Its use is governed by the Office of Trademarks and Licensing. Merchandise and Licensed Goods The university owns all trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, seals, symbols, mascots, and slogans associated with or referring to the University of Cincinnati. The Office of Trademarks & Licensing protects and controls the use of our marks on merchandise and licensed goods, and oversees the quality and appropriateness of products, promotions, and sponsorships for which the marks are used. All uses of UC’s name and trademarks on products require prior approval from the Office of Trademarks and Licensing, even if the proposed uses do not involve the sale of a product. All products bearing UC’s trademarks must be produced from companies licensed by the University of Cincinnati through our agent, the Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC). All uses of UC trademarks on products will incorporate the appropriate trademark designation symbols (i.e., ® or ™). Additional information is available on the Office of Trademarks and Licensing website, uc.edu/licensing. Variety of licensed and merchandised goods The CECH Marketing Department is here to help with the marketing needs of the College, the Schools, recruitment, and the various units and centers associated with CECH. We can assist with your next Marketing Merchandise Order. Please submit a ticket below and one of our marketing professionals will respond to you within 24-48 hours. Request Purchasing Order Photography The College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services has a catalogue of images that are used across many college documents. Photography demonstrates education in action, students from all of our schools and architectural catalysts of the college. Teachers College Male and female talking in front of Teachers College Group of students in front of Teachers College Request Photography Services Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top