Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services CECH right arrow down arrow About CECH right arrow down arrow Headlines Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening right arrow down arrow CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships right arrow down arrow Action Research Center (ARC) right arrow down arrow What We Do Who we are Get Involved Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability right arrow down arrow Contact Us Donate Early Childhood Education Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) right arrow down arrow About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Publications Center for English as a Second Language right arrow down arrow ESL Placement Tests ESL Placement Guide ESL Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) right arrow down arrow Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture right arrow down arrow About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) right arrow down arrow Services Contact Training Institutes Products Resources COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center right arrow down arrow Services Selected Projects Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science right arrow down arrow Contact ICS Team Upward Bound right arrow down arrow About Us Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity right arrow down arrow Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative right arrow down arrow Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support right arrow down arrow Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources right arrow down arrow Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Student Recruitment and Marketing right arrow down arrow Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo right arrow down arrow Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean Academic Schools right arrow down arrow School of Education right arrow down arrow About the School of Education right arrow down arrow Research Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Early Childhood Education Online- Associates Early Childhood Education and Development- Minor Early Childhood Education- Online (Birth-Age 5) Early Childhood Education (Preschool- Grade 5) Human Development and Community Engagement Middle Childhood Education Secondary Education Special Education CDA Professional Development Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Curriculum and Instruction- Online Curriculum and Instruction - Onsite Educational Studies Educational Studies Ph.D. Educational Leadership- Online Instructional Design and Technology Literacy and Second Language Studies -Online Special Education- Online Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) - Online Urban Educational Leadership, EdD Forms Certificates and Endorsements right arrow down arrow Autism Spectrum Disorders - Online Blended and Online Learning and Teaching (BOLT) Certificate | Online Deaf Studies Endorsement- Early Childhood Generalist Endorsement Education for Environmental Sustainability Digital Learning Design Gifted Education Endorsement & Certificate Higher Education Leadership Certificate | Onsite Jewish Education Certificate | Onsite Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) -Online Middle Childhood Generalist Endorsement Postsecondary Literacy Instruction Certificate - Online Endorsement- PreK-12 Reading Instruction Certificate Special Education Leadership Certificate -Online STEM Teaching and Learning - Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Certificate Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) | Online TESOL K-12 Undergraduate Certificate Professional Development right arrow down arrow Teacher Resources Professional Development Resources License Renewal Courses FAQ Our Faculty and Staff Office of Educator Preparation right arrow down arrow Office of Field Experiences CAEP Accreditation Tk20 Professional Cohort Admissions Information Advancement & Transition Services right arrow down arrow About ATS Collaboration for Employment and Education Synergy Transition & Access Program Certificate IMPACT Innovation ATS News and Upcoming Events ATS Community Partners & Employment Giving Opportunities Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Community Volunteer Opportunities Research Opportunities Programs on Campus Scientific Research in Children's Literacy Lab Teacher Resources Teacher Awards Our Faculty and Staff UC BIPOC Teacher Pathway School of Criminal Justice right arrow down arrow Criminal Justice Career Expo right arrow down arrow Event Information Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Bachelors of Science in Paralegal Studies Minor- Criminal Justice Minor- Paralegal Studies Certificate- Forensic Populations Certificate- Foundations of Cybersecurity Certificate- Paralegal Studies Certificate - Correctional Rehabilitation Certificate- Crime and Intelligence Analysis Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Criminal Justice- Ph.D. Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate Analysis of Criminal Behavior Graduate Certificate Special Programs and Courses Undergraduate Research right arrow down arrow Application FAQ Testimonial Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Alpha Phi Sigma Criminal Justice Society Alumni right arrow down arrow Stay in Touch Contact Us Research right arrow down arrow Centers and Institutes Ph.D. Dissertations Our Faculty and Staff Summer Enrollment Courses School of Human Services right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Exercise Science Health Promotion and Education - Minor Public Health Public Health - Minor Sport Administration Sport Administration Minor Sport Coaching Certificate Sport Media and Promotion Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Online program Substance Abuse Prevention Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Certificate Violence Prevention in Families, Schools, & Community Certificate Yoga Studies Certificate Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Behavior Analysis Professional Certificate Online Counseling Graduate Programs School Psychology Graduate Programs Health Promotion and Education Graduate Programs Master of Science in Sport Administration Master of Education in Foundations in Behavior Analysis Student Resources Real World Connections Our Staff & Faculty Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow About the School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Information Technology Graduate Certificates Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program Course Descriptions Centers right arrow down arrow IT Solutions Center IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events right arrow down arrow 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students right arrow down arrow Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program right arrow down arrow Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo right arrow down arrow Senior Design Advisors News People right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community right arrow down arrow Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Programs and Degrees Future Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students right arrow down arrow Events right arrow down arrow Be Series Transfer and Transition Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Events Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Events Military and Veteran Students Scholarships & Funding Family & Parent Resources right arrow down arrow Future CECH Students Current CECH Students Virtual Map Tour Teachers and Guidance Counselor Resources right arrow down arrow Resources Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Services Center right arrow down arrow What is Advising Academic Policies Applications right arrow down arrow Readmission or change of College Change of Program within CECH Certificate or Minor Application Find Your CECH Academic Advisor right arrow down arrow CECH Student Services Staff Directory Gainful Employment Licensure Application Information Location Parent Resources Scholarships & Funding right arrow down arrow CECH Undergraduate Scholarships Student Resources Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Association (GSA) Study Abroad CECH right arrow down arrow Study Abroad Scholarship App More Info CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor CECH Scholarships & Recipients right arrow down arrow CECH Scholarship Donor Request Scholarship Application FAQS CECH Mentor & Volunteer Opportunities Alumni and Giving right arrow down arrow Alumni Engagement Contact Us Distinguished Alumni right arrow down arrow Past Distinguished Alumni Giving Opportunities right arrow down arrow Ways to Give right arrow down arrow Types of Gifts CECH Giving Priorities COVID-19 College Updates UC CECH » About CECH » Centers and Partnerships » Corrections Institute » Contact » Staff Set Navigation title in component Corrections Institute (UCCI) Services Research Development Practice Outcomes Contact Staff Faculty Fellows Dr. Lori Brusman-Lovins Dr. Jennifer Hartman Dr. Alex Holsinger Dr. Debi Koetzle Dr. Shelley Listwan Dr. Brian Lovins Dr. Matthew Makarios Dr. AJ Myer Dr. Jennifer Pealer Dr. Kim Sperber Dr. Charlene Taylor Dr. Alex Piquero Dr. Jessica J. Warner Dr. Ronen Ziv Dr. Kevin Knight Dr. Jennifer L. Skeem Contractors Training Institutes Products Assessments E-Learning Fidelity Interventions Group Interventions Individual Interventions Evaluations Resources Partners News Back On Track CNVC Grant Epics- I Webinar CSG Partnership Publications COVID-19 Resources Action Research Center (ARC) What We Do Events Research and Publications ECAR Dissertations Who we are ECAR Faculty and Students Organizations & Partnerships Get Involved Join the ARC Listserv Join the ARC Advisory Committee Contact The ARC Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability Contact Us Visit Us Arlitt Staff Donate Early Childhood Education Arlitt Child Development Center Academic Programs & Opportunities for Students Research Recent Projects and Publications Opportunities for Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Data Resources Request a Report Publications Grad Publications Center for English as a Second Language ESL Placement Tests Oral English Proficiency Test for Visiting Scholars (OEPT-VS) Oral English Proficiency Test for International Teaching Assistants (OEPT-ITA) ESL English Placement Test (ESL ENPT) ESL Placement Guide ESL Placement for Graduate Students English Placement for Undergraduate Students ESL Courses Summer Courses Academic Year Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center Services Selected Projects Evaluation in Practice: Assessing Improvement in STEM Education Testimonials Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science Contact ICS Team Upward Bound About Us Additional Resources Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) Projects & Services Team & Partners Staff Alecia L. Johnson Executive Staff Assistant, CECH Business Office 208B VPCADMIN 513-556-9197 johns8ah@ucmail.uc.edu Alecia joined the staff of the Corrections Institute (UCCI) in October of 2018. Originally from Staten Island, NY, Alecia holds an A.A.S. in Business Administration and has 15 years of experience in the administrative field. As Executive Staff Assistant, she provides administrative support to both business and research staff at the UCCI, as well as a large team of UCCI fellow experts and contract trainers/coaches. View Full Profile Andrew Krebs Research Associate, CECH SOCJ Corrections Institute 310 VPCADMIN 513-556-8654 krebsav@ucmail.uc.edu Andrew Krebs received his PhD in Sociology from the University of Texas at Austin (2020). Andrew’s research interests include the structural connections between criminal justice and mental health systems. His dissertation research explored the occupational role and experience of mental health professionals working in various justice-oriented settings (e.g. pre-arrest diversion, corrections, and re-entry). Prior to receiving his PhD, Andrew graduated with a MA in Sociology from DePaul University (2012) and a BA in Sociology from the University of Alabama at Birmingham (2010). He is also a proud graduate of Walnut Hills High School in Cincinnati, OH. View Full Profile Eric J. Willoughby Jr. Research Associate, UCCI, CECH SOCJ Corrections Institute 315 VPCADMIN 513-556-0989 willouej@ucmail.uc.edu Eric Willoughby received his M.S. in Criminal Justice from the University of Cincinnati in 2008. He currently serves as a Junior Research Associate for the University of Cincinnati Corrections Institute. Eric has over eight years of clinical experience while working at River City Correctional Center (RCCC) in Hamilton County, Ohio. During his tenure at RCCC, Eric provided several treatment services while working individually with inmates applying the Principles of Effective Intervention through individual sessions and group facilitation. Eric has years of experience facilitating various treatment groups which includes Thinking for a Change and Cognitive Behavioral Interventions in Substance Abuse. In his last two years at RCCC, Eric served as the Quality Assurance Coordinator and completed multiple audits through group and individual session observations and file reviews ensuring the staff upheld various ACA and ODRC standards. Eric also served as RCCC’s liaison to the Sex Offender program, a PREA SART team member and as the lead training coordinator for the entire facility. View Full Profile Jaime M. Bonecutter Jr Research Associate, CECH SOCJ Corrections Institute 314 VPCADMIN 513-556-0857 bonecujm@ucmail.uc.edu Jaime Bonecutter is a Junior Research Associate with UCCI. She earned a Master of Science degree in Criminal Justice in 2017 from UC after receiving a Bachelor of Science degree in Criminal Justice from UC in 1999. She has worked in the field of Corrections for over 21 years. At UCCI, she is a trainer in the ORAS, OYAS, LS/CMI and the YLS/CMI risk assessments, various Cognitive Behavioral Interventions curricula, and the Correctional Program Checklist. During her time at UC, she has assisted with the development of the CBI-IFR and CBI-IPV curricula and has served as a project manager. View Full Profile Jamie R. Newsome Dr. Jamie Newsome received her doctorate in 2013 from the School of Criminal Justice at UC and is currently the Research Coordinator for UCCI. Her professional goals are centered around translating research into practice and collaborating with practitioners to design, implement, and evaluate the effectiveness of correctional interventions. Dr. Newsome currently serves as the Principal Investigator for a randomized controlled trial testing the effectiveness of CBI-EMP in two midwestern state prisons (Grant No. 2019-RY-BX-0003), and is collaborating with Weber County, Utah to design, implement, and evaluate the Weber Addictions and Reentry Program (WARP) with support from the Bureau of Justice Assistance (Grant No. 2019-RW-BX-0004). Her research has been featured in the Journal of Criminal Justice, Criminal Justice and Behavior, Development and Psychopathology, and the Journal of Youth and Adolescence. View Full Profile Jennifer Scott Program Director, University of Cincinnati Corrections Institute , CECH SOCJ Corrections Institute 302 VPCADMIN 513-556-7765 scott3jm@ucmail.uc.edu Jennifer joined the staff of the Corrections Institute (UCCI) in July of 2012. As Program Director, she leads daily operating functions of UCCI business, oversees communication and marketing initiatives, and supports collaboration opportunities with criminal and juvenile justice agencies at local, state and national levels. In addition to serving as Principle Investigator on training grants, Jennifer serves as UCCI liasion to the University’s Office of Innovation, the UC Research Institute (UCRI) and all product automation partnerships with the Information Technology Solution Center (ITSC) in UC’s College of Education, Criminal Justice, Human Services, and Information Technology (CECH). View Full Profile Margaret E. Schweitzer Business Manager, CECH SOCJ Corrections Institute 321A VPCADMIN 513-556-7529 schweimt@ucmail.uc.edu Maggie Schweitzer has been working for UCCI since 2014. First as a contract employee in the role of Training Coordinator for 3 years before becoming a staff member in January, 2017 as a Program Manager. In 2019, Maggie transitioned into her current role as Business Manager. Maggie now handles the financial aspects of the Corrections Institute, mainly by helping to create and manage the budgets on all of our projects. As part of a special project, she served as the Project Manager on our Criminogenic Need and Violent Behavior Program curriculum development project for the Administrative Office of the United States Courts (AO). Maggie earned her Bachelors of Business in Supply Chain Management from Miami University and, prior to working at UCCI, worked as a Material Coordinator in the automotive manufacturing industry. View Full Profile Mindy Schweitzer Smith Center for Criminal Justice Research and Deputy Director, University of Cincinnati Corrections Institute, CECH SOCJ Corrections Institute 312 VPCADMIN 513-556-0856 schweiml@ucmail.uc.edu Myrinda Schweitzer Smith received her Ph.D. from the University of Cincinnati and is a Sr. Research Associate and Deputy Director at the Corrections Institute in the School of Criminal Justice at the University of Cincinnati. Dr. Schweitzer's research interests include the assessment of correctional programs, the science of implementation and knowledge transfer, and more generally correctional treatment and rehabilitation. She has co-authored several publications, presented nationally and internationally on correctional interventions, and served as a project director for over 200 correctional projects. Specific topics of research and service include a state-wide correctional treatment program evaluation, the development and implementation of cognitive-behavioral programs for general delinquency, criminality, substance abuse, employment, and sexual offending, as well as recent initiatives to implement effective practices for community supervision and support. View Full Profile Stephanie N. Spiegel Targeted RECLAIM Project, CECH SOCJ Corrections Institute 307 VPCADMIN 513-505-0184 spiegesn@ucmail.uc.edu Stephanie Spiegel earned her Ph.D. degree from the School of Criminal Justice at the University of Cincinnati. She has research experience in program implementation and evaluation, evidence-based practices in corrections, qualitative analyses, and disproportionate minority contact (DMC). She currently manages the Targeted RECLAIM (TR) project, one of Ohio’s key initiatives to reduce youth recidivism and custodial placement, funded by the Ohio Department of Youth Services (ODYS). As part of this effort, she provides on-going training, coaching, and implementation support to community agencies across the state. This technical assistance has been especially critical since many corrections professionals continue to experience considerable challenges related to “how to make it work” in their agencies. In addition to her work on TR, Stephanie is working on the Criminogenic Need and Violent Behavior Program curriculum. The goal of this curriculum is to support the Criminal Law Committee and the Administrative Office of the United States Courts (AO) efforts to utilize evidence-based practices in the supervision of federal offenders in order to produce the greatest reduction in recidivism. View Full Profile Tammy L. Dean Research Associate, CECH SOCJ Corrections Institute 301 VPCADMIN 513-556-7765 deanty@ucmail.uc.edu Tammy Dean is the Practice and Implementation Coordinator and a Research Associate with the University of Cincinnati’s Corrections Institute. Mrs. Dean has a Bachelor’s Degree in Criminal Justice from the University of Massachusetts – Lowell and has worked in the field of corrections since 2006. View Full Profile Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top