Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services CECH right arrow down arrow About CECH right arrow down arrow Headlines Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening right arrow down arrow CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships right arrow down arrow Action Research Center (ARC) right arrow down arrow What We Do Who we are Get Involved Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability right arrow down arrow Contact Us Donate Early Childhood Education Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) right arrow down arrow About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Publications Center for English as a Second Language right arrow down arrow ESL Placement Tests ESL Placement Guide ESL Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) right arrow down arrow Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture right arrow down arrow About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) right arrow down arrow Services Contact Training Institutes Products Resources COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center right arrow down arrow Services Selected Projects Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science right arrow down arrow Contact ICS Team Upward Bound right arrow down arrow About Us Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity right arrow down arrow Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative right arrow down arrow Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support right arrow down arrow Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources right arrow down arrow Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Student Recruitment and Marketing right arrow down arrow Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo right arrow down arrow Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean Academic Schools right arrow down arrow School of Education right arrow down arrow About the School of Education right arrow down arrow Research Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Early Childhood Education Online- Associates Early Childhood Education and Development- Minor Early Childhood Education- Online (Birth-Age 5) Early Childhood Education (Preschool- Grade 5) Human Development and Community Engagement Middle Childhood Education Secondary Education Special Education CDA Professional Development Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Curriculum and Instruction- Online Curriculum and Instruction - Onsite Educational Studies Educational Studies Ph.D. Educational Leadership- Online Instructional Design and Technology Literacy and Second Language Studies -Online Special Education- Online Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) - Online Urban Educational Leadership, EdD Forms Certificates and Endorsements right arrow down arrow Autism Spectrum Disorders - Online Blended and Online Learning and Teaching (BOLT) Certificate | Online Deaf Studies Endorsement- Early Childhood Generalist Endorsement Education for Environmental Sustainability Digital Learning Design Gifted Education Endorsement & Certificate Higher Education Leadership Certificate | Onsite Jewish Education Certificate | Onsite Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) -Online Middle Childhood Generalist Endorsement Postsecondary Literacy Instruction Certificate - Online Endorsement- PreK-12 Reading Instruction Certificate Special Education Leadership Certificate -Online STEM Teaching and Learning - Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Certificate Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) | Online TESOL K-12 Undergraduate Certificate Professional Development right arrow down arrow Teacher Resources Professional Development Resources License Renewal Courses FAQ Our Faculty and Staff Office of Educator Preparation right arrow down arrow Office of Field Experiences CAEP Accreditation Tk20 Professional Cohort Admissions Information Advancement & Transition Services right arrow down arrow About ATS Collaboration for Employment and Education Synergy Transition & Access Program Certificate IMPACT Innovation ATS News and Upcoming Events ATS Community Partners & Employment Giving Opportunities Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Community Volunteer Opportunities Research Opportunities Programs on Campus Scientific Research in Children's Literacy Lab Teacher Resources Teacher Awards Our Faculty and Staff UC BIPOC Teacher Pathway School of Criminal Justice right arrow down arrow Criminal Justice Career Expo right arrow down arrow Event Information Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Bachelors of Science in Paralegal Studies Minor- Criminal Justice Minor- Paralegal Studies Certificate- Forensic Populations Certificate- Foundations of Cybersecurity Certificate- Paralegal Studies Certificate - Correctional Rehabilitation Certificate- Crime and Intelligence Analysis Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Criminal Justice- Ph.D. Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate Analysis of Criminal Behavior Graduate Certificate Special Programs and Courses Undergraduate Research right arrow down arrow Application FAQ Testimonial Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Alpha Phi Sigma Criminal Justice Society Alumni right arrow down arrow Stay in Touch Contact Us Research right arrow down arrow Centers and Institutes Ph.D. Dissertations Our Faculty and Staff Summer Enrollment Courses School of Human Services right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Exercise Science Health Promotion and Education - Minor Public Health Public Health - Minor Sport Administration Sport Administration Minor Sport Coaching Certificate Sport Media and Promotion Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Online program Substance Abuse Prevention Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Certificate Violence Prevention in Families, Schools, & Community Certificate Yoga Studies Certificate Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Behavior Analysis Professional Certificate Online Counseling Graduate Programs School Psychology Graduate Programs Health Promotion and Education Graduate Programs Master of Science in Sport Administration Master of Education in Foundations in Behavior Analysis Student Resources Real World Connections Our Staff & Faculty Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow About the School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Information Technology Graduate Certificates Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program Course Descriptions Centers right arrow down arrow IT Solutions Center IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events right arrow down arrow 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students right arrow down arrow Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program right arrow down arrow Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo right arrow down arrow Senior Design Advisors News People right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community right arrow down arrow Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Programs and Degrees Future Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students right arrow down arrow Events right arrow down arrow Be Series Transfer and Transition Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Events Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Events Military and Veteran Students Scholarships & Funding Family & Parent Resources right arrow down arrow Future CECH Students Current CECH Students Virtual Map Tour Teachers and Guidance Counselor Resources right arrow down arrow Resources Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Services Center right arrow down arrow What is Advising Academic Policies Applications right arrow down arrow Readmission or change of College Change of Program within CECH Certificate or Minor Application Find Your CECH Academic Advisor right arrow down arrow CECH Student Services Staff Directory Gainful Employment Licensure Application Information Location Parent Resources Scholarships & Funding right arrow down arrow CECH Undergraduate Scholarships Student Resources Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Association (GSA) Study Abroad CECH right arrow down arrow Study Abroad Scholarship App More Info CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor CECH Scholarships & Recipients right arrow down arrow CECH Scholarship Donor Request Scholarship Application FAQS CECH Mentor & Volunteer Opportunities Alumni and Giving right arrow down arrow Alumni Engagement Contact Us Distinguished Alumni right arrow down arrow Past Distinguished Alumni Giving Opportunities right arrow down arrow Ways to Give right arrow down arrow Types of Gifts CECH Giving Priorities COVID-19 College Updates UC CECH » Academic Schools » School of Criminal Justice » Research » Ph.D. Dissertations Set Navigation title in component Criminal Justice Career Expo Event Information Undergraduate Programs Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Program Requirements & Application Field Placement Regional Campuses Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Bachelors of Science in Paralegal Studies Program Requirements & Application Transfer Policy Prospective Students Library Internship Our Staff and Faculty Minor- Criminal Justice Program Requirements & Application Minor- Paralegal Studies Program Requirements & Application Certificate- Forensic Populations Program Requirements & Application Certificate- Foundations of Cybersecurity Program Requirements & Application Certificate- Paralegal Studies Program Requirements & Application Certificate - Correctional Rehabilitation Program Requirements & Application Certificate- Crime and Intelligence Analysis Program Requirements & Application Graduate Programs Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Program Requirements & Application Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Program Requirements & Application Criminal Justice- Ph.D. Program Requirements & Application Meet the PhD Students Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate Program and Admission Requirements Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate- Online Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate Program and Application Requirements Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate- Online Analysis of Criminal Behavior Graduate Certificate Program and Admission Requirements Analysis of Criminal Behavior- Online Special Programs and Courses Undergraduate Research Application FAQ Testimonial Student Organizations Alpha Phi Sigma Regalia Regalia Order Form Criminal Justice Society Alumni Stay in Touch Contact Us Research Centers and Institutes Ph.D. Dissertations Our Faculty and Staff Summer Enrollment Courses Ph.D. Dissertations 2022 right arrow down arrow Title: The Other Side of the Coin? Black Americans' Empathy Towards Police Author: Dr. Hannah McManus Title: A Multi-Level Analysis of the Effects of Treatment Integrity & Program Completion on Recidivism in Residential Community Correctional Programs Author: Dr. Jee Yearn Kim Title: Hacks or Heroes? Public Perceptions of Correctional Officers Author: Dr. Alex Burton Title: The Gift that Keeps Giving: Application of Contingency Management in Community Supervision Settings Author: Dr. Lindsey Mueller Title: The Role is the Remedy: Professional Perspectives on the Implementation of a Risk and Needs Assessment Author: Dr. Gina Gibbs Title: Perceiving Vulnerability: Evaluating the Impact of Individual Movement within Environmental Context Author: Dr. Rachel Kail 2021 right arrow down arrow Title: Judicial Variation in Sentencing and the Contributions of Caseloads and Contexts Author: Dr. C. Clare Strange Title: Examining Intersectionality in Juvenile Legal System Processing: A Focus on LGBTQ+Youth and Youth of Color Author: Dr. Laura Rubino Title: The Effects of Individual Differences on the Perceived Risks and Rewards of Offending: A Meta-Analysis Author: Dr. Sultan Altikriti Title: Identifying Dimension of Prison Education Programs Most Effective for Reducing Deviance During and After Incarceration Author: Dr. Amanda Pompoco Title: Testing the Criminology of the Unpopular: The Influence of Street Usage Potential, Facility Density, & Facility Site Selection on Nearby Crime Author: Dr. James Kelsay 2020 right arrow down arrow Title: Risky people around risky places: The effects of crime-prone offenders and facilities on the spatial distribution of crime Author: Dr. Jillian Desmond Title: Judge-Prosecutor Dyad Effects on Racial Disparity Author: Dr. Spencer Hochstetler Title: Place-Based Investigations of Violent Offender Territories (PIVOT): An Exploration and Evaluation of a Place Network Disruption Violence Reduction Strategy in Cincinnati, Ohio Author: Dr. Matthew Hammer Title: Beyond Reducing Recidivism: Highlighting the Health Status and Needs of Juveniles in a Residential Facility Author: Dr. Shahin Tasharrofi Title: Appropriate classification of prisoners: Balancing prison safety with the least restrictive placements of Ohio inmates Author: Dr. Joshua Long Title: Exploring Pathways of Bullying Victimization: A Test of Two Competing Victimization Theories to Better Understand Risk of Bullying Experiences Among Middle School Youth Author: Dr. Amy Stutzenberger Title: Race and Redemption at a Correctional Turning Point Author: Dr. Leah Butler Title: From age to aging: Biological age and its role in the criminal career Author: Dr. Peter Tanksley Title: Millennials as the Future of Corrections: A Generational Analysis of Public Policy Opinions Author: Dr. Heejin Lee Title: Tangled Webs: A Test of Routine Activities Theory to Explain Nonconsensual Pornography Victimization Author: Dr. Caitlin Henriksen Title: Does Live Coaching increase Officer Proficiency with Core Correctional Practices? Author: Dr. Cara Thompson Title: Proposing and Assessing Facility Risk Measures for Place Based Studies of Crime Author: Dr. Samantha Henderson Title: The Relationships between Age, Psychosocial Maturity, and Criminal Behavior Author: Dr. Timothy Nixon Title: Examining the Impact of De-escalation Training on Police Officer Attitudes: A Pilot Evaluation Author: Dr. Gabrielle Isaza Title: The Intersection of Developmental and Life-Course (DLC) Perspectives and Corrections: Viewing the Prison Experience as a Turning Point Author: Dr. Melissa Lugo 2019 right arrow down arrow Title: Genetically adjusted propensity score matching: A proposal of a novel analytical tool to help close the gap between non-experimental designs and true experiments in the social sciences Author: Dr. Ian Silver Title: Victimization of the 21st century: An examination of cyberstalking victimization using a target congruence approach (to be posted 5/8/20) Author: Dr. Erica Fissel Title: The Neo-Jacobian Perspective of Place and Neighborhood Crime: A Case Study of Walnut Hills, Cincinnati, Ohio Author: Dr. Shannon Linning Title: Street Codes & School Victimization: Analyses of U.S. & S. Korean Students Author: Dr. SooHyun O Title: Measuring Procedural Justice: A Case Study in Criminometrics Author: Dr. Amanda Graham Title: Self-Control & Youth Victimization in Saudi Arabia: A Test of the Generality Thesis Author: Dr. Victoria Chamberlin 2018 right arrow down arrow Title: A Closer Examination of the Empirical Link Between Parenting & Children's Deviance Author: Dr. Lydie Loth Title: Understanding the Nature of Human Trafficking: A Content Analysis Approach Author: Dr. Theresa Kulig Title: Too Cruel for School: Exclusionary Discipline and the Incorrigible Student (to be posted 8/6/2020) Author: Dr. Mark Morgan Title: Public servants or soldiers? A test of the police-military equivalency hypothesis Author: Dr. Omeed Ilchi Title: The role of political self-identity on views of higher education amongst criminal justice graduate students: An exploratory analysis Author: Dr. Annelise Pietenpol Title: Describing the sensitivity of spatial crime patterns by robbery operationalization (to be posted on 12/20/20) Author: Dr. Jeffery E. Clutter Title: Staff perceptions of an evidence-based supervision model: Implementing effective practices in community supervision (EPICS) (to be posted 12/10/20) Author: Dr. Lily Gleicher Title: Police interactions with the community on FB: An examination of the content on the messagepolice communicate with citizens on FB, community response and factors associated with different communication patterns (to be posted 11/13/19) Author: Dr. Bradley Buckmeier 2017 right arrow down arrow Title: Estimating the Effect of Race on Juvenile Court Decision-Making: A Comparison Method Author: Shaun M. Gann, Ph.D. Title: Is Corrections "Collar" Blind?: Examining the Predictive Validity of a Risk/Needs Assessment Tool on White-Collar Offenders Author: Erin Harbinson, Ph.D. Title: Why Can't We Be Friends? Exploring Short-term Peer Selection and Peer Influence Dynamics Using Longitudinal Social Network Analysis Author: Samuel Peterson, Ph.D. Title: Comparing Measures of the Concentration of Crime at Places and Times Author: YongJei Lee, Ph.D. Title: Cumulative Disadvantage Across the Life Course: Results from a Nationally Representative Sample Author: Michael TenEyck, Ph.D. Title: Redemption in an Era of Penal Harm: Moving Beyond Offender Exclusion Author: Angela Thielo, Ph.D. Title: Right on Crime: Conservative Reform in the Era of Mass Imprisonment (to be released 4/2019)) Author: Derek Cohen, Ph.D. 2016 right arrow down arrow Title: The Freedom Fighter: A Terrorist's Own Story (1st Ed., Routledge 9/17) Author: Murat Haner, Ph.D. Title: Moving Beyond the RNR and GLM Models: A New Vision for Offender Treatment Author: Ronen Ziv, Ph.D. Title: Adherence to the Risk, Need and Fidelity Principles: Examining the Impact of Dosage in Correctional Programming Author: Kristin Bechtel, Ph.D. Title: Collective Efficacy and Community Crime Rates: A Cross-National Test of Rival Models Author: Cecilia Chouhy, Ph.D. Title: Explaining the Adoption of Street-Code Attitudes among Latinos and its Effects on Criminal Offending Author: Carlos Rojas-Goana, Ph.D. Title: Beyond the Party Lifestyle: A Quantitative Analysis of Sexual Victimization Among College Students Author: Kathryn Elvey, Ph.D. Title: Sexual Assault Incident Characteristics and Confidante Responses Author: Nicole Laskey, Ph.D. Title: Assessing the Effectiveness of Multisystemic Therapy: A Meta-Analysis Author: Jennifer Lux, Ph.D. Title: Reinventing Juvenile Justice: Examing the Effectiveness of the Targeted RECLAIM Initiative Author: Myrinda Schweitzer Smith, Ph.D. 2015 right arrow down arrow Title: Best Systemic Practices for the Management of Deaf Suspects, Defendants and Offenders Author: Beau Shine, Ph.D. Title: A Tale of Two States: An Examination and Comparison of Organizational Context in Correctional Institutions Author: Jessica Warner, Ph.D. Title: A Multi-Level Analysis of the Effects of Program Completion, Setting, and Integrity on Recidivism with Residential Community Correctional Programs Author: Hyejin Kim, Ph.D. Title: A Study of Organizational Citizenship Behaviors (OCB) and its Antededents in Indian Police Agency Author: Hanif Qureshi, Ph.D. Title: Does Stickiness Matter?: A Longitudinal Examination of the Stability of Adolescent Peer Groups Author: Brandon Dulisse, Ph.D. Title: Crime-Reduction Effects of Open-Street CCTV's in Cincinnati Author: HyungJin Lim, Ph.D. Title: A Multi-Level Model of Personal Victimization Among South Korean Youths Author: Sujung Cho, Ph.D. Title: Predicting Arrest Probability Across Time: A Test of Competing Risk Perspectives Author: Michelle Coyne, Ph.D. Title: The Effect of Solitary Confinement on Institutional Misconduct: A Longitudinal Evaluation Author: Ryan Labrecque, Ph.D. Title: (Re) Revisiting the Special Sensitivity Hypothesis: Do White Collar Offenders Need to "Get Hard?" Author: Matthew Logan, Ph.D. Title: Lifestyle, Self-Control, and School-Based Violent Victimization in Turkey Author: Rustu Deryol, Ph.D. 2014 right arrow down arrow Title: Community Gardens and Crime: Exploring the Roles of Criminal Opportunity and Informal Social Control Author: Lesli Blair, Ph.D. Title: The Sex Offender Policy and Practice: Comparing the SORNA Tier Classification System and Static-99 Risk Levels Author: Bobbie Ticknor, Ph.D. Title: Examining Three Alternative Explanations for the Race/Ethnicity Disparities in Violent Victimization: Mediation, Moderation, and Contextual Effects Author: Arelys Madero-Hernandez, Ph.D. Title: A View From the Top: Managers' Perspectives on the Problem of Employee Theft in Small Businesses Author: Jay P. Kennedy, Ph.D. Title: Application of an Ecological Model to the Labeling of Sexual Agression Author: Wendy Perkins Gilbert, Ph.D. Title: Problem Framing in Problem-Oriented Policing: An Examination of Framing From Problem Definition to Problem Response Author: Kathleen Gallagher, Ph.D. Title: The Impact of Reentry Programs on Recidivism: A Meta Analysis Author: Mirlinda Ndrecka, Ph.D. 2013 right arrow down arrow Title: The Predictive Validity of the Ohio Youth Assessment System--Disposition Instrument: A Revalidation Study Author: James McCafferty, Ph.D. Title: Consistency or Discord: Meta-Analyses of Police Deisions to Search and Use Force Author: P. Colin Bolger, Ph.D. Title: Street Codes, Routine Activities, Neighborhood Context, and Victimization: An Examination of Alternative Models Author: Susan McNeeley, Ph.D. Title: Are Female Defendants Treated More Leniently by Judges? A Multilevel Analysis of Sex-Based Disparities at the Phases of Pretrial Release, Charge Reductions, and Sentencing Author: Natalie Goulette, Ph.D. Title: A Mixed-Methodological Exploration of Potential Confounders in the Study of the Causal Effect of Detention Status on Sentence Severity in One Federal Court Author: Angela Reitler, Ph.D. Title: Environmental Corrections: Making Offender Supervision Work Author: Lacey Schafer, Ph.D. Title: Examining the Youth Level of Service/Case Management Inventory in the Context of Reliability, Validity, Equity, and Utility: A Six-Year Evaluation Author: Anthony Flores, Ph.D. Title: Resilience and Vulnerability in Adolescents at Risk for Delinquency: A Behaviorial Genetic Study of Different Response to Risk Author: Jamie Newsome, Ph.D. Title: Typologies of Female Offenders: A Latent Class Analysis Using the Women's Risk Needs Assessment Author: Rachel Brushett, Ph.D. Title: Decision Making in Criminal Justice Revisited: Toward a General Theory of Criminal Justice Author: Dan Lytle, Ph.D. Title: Putting Wayward Kids Behind Bars: The Impact of Custodial Placement on Recidivism Author: Brian Lovins, Ph.D. 2012 right arrow down arrow Title: An Empirical Examination of Variation on Effective Correctional Program Characteristics by Gender Author: Lori Brusman Lovins, Ph.D. Title: Victimization, Fear of Crime, and Perception of Risk in the Workplace: Testing Rival Theories With a Sample of Greek and Greek-Cypriot Journalists Author: Spyridon Kodellas, Ph.D. Title: Code of the Hallway: Examining the Contextual Effects of School Subculture on Physical Violence, Sexual Offending, and Non-Violent Delinquency Author: Kristin Swartz, Ph.D. Title: Meta-Analysis of Early Life Influences on Behavior in Criminals Author: David Carter, Ph.D. Title: A Meta-Analytic Review of the Correlates of Perceived Job Stress Among Police Officers Author: Jennifer Childress Webster, Ph.D. Title: Gender-Responsive Risk Assessment: A Comparison of Women and Men Author: Valerie Bell, Ph.D. 2011 right arrow down arrow Title: Are Needs Related to Pretrial Outcomes? An Examination of the Hamilton County Inventory of Need Pretrial Screening Tool Author: Krista Gehring, Ph.D. Title: Unraveling the Sources of Adolescent Substance Use: A Test of Rival Theories Author: Rachel McArthur, Ph.D. Title: The Effects of Individual Vulnerability and Lifestyle/Routine Activities on Fear of Crime and Perceptions of Risk in the School Setting Author: Brooke Gialopsos, Ph.D. Title: Fear of Crime Online: Examining the Effects of Perceived Risk and Online Victimization of Fear of Cyberstalkingy Author: Billy Henson, Ph.D. Title: College Students with ADHS: Extending the Lifestyles/Routine Activities Framework to Predict Sexual Victimization and Stalking Author: Jamie Snyder, Ph.D. Title: How Central Business Districts Manage Crime and Disorder: A Case Study in the Mechanisms of Place Management in Downtown Cincinnati Author: Khadija Monk, Ph.D. Title: Disability Status and Victimization Risk among a National Sample of College Students: A Lifestyles-Routine Activities Approach Author: Heidi Scherer, Ph.D. Title: Understanding Organizational and Ecological Impacts on Police Use of Formal Authority: Testing an Ecological Theory of Police Response to Deviance Author: Cody Stoddard, Ph.D. Title: The Effect of Victimization on Women’s Health: Does the Victim-Offender Relationship Matter? Author: Megan Stewart, Ph.D. Title: Local Law Enforcement in the Realm of Cyberspace: The Role of Local Law Enforcement Agegncies of Controllling Internet Crime Author: James W. Carter, II, Ph.D. 2010 right arrow down arrow Title: Perceptions of Neighborhood Problems: Agreement Between Police and Citizens and Impact on Citizen Attitudes Author: Melissa Winesburg, Ph.D. Title: Does Changing Ownership Change Crime? An Analysis of Apartment Ownership in Cincinnati Author: Troy Payne, Ph.D. Title: How Much Do Criminologist Know About Crime? Using Environmental Criminology to Assess Our Knowledge of Crime Author: Justin A. Heinonen, Ph.D. Title: Hurricane Katrina, Citizen Displacement, and Social Control: A Test of the Threat and Benign Neglect Hypotheses Author: Andrew J. Myer, Ph.D. Title: Adolescent Deviance Within Families and Neighborhoods Author: Rebecca Schnupp, Ph.D. Title: Diffusion of Innovation and Fraud in the Subprime Mortgage Market Author: Cynthia Koller, Ph.D. Title: Crime on Turkish Streetblocks: An Examination of the Effects of High Schools, on Premise Alcohol Outlets and Coffee Author: Haci Duru, Ph.D. Title: The Impact of Imprisonment on Reoffending: A Meta-Analysis Author: Cheryl Lero Jonson, Ph.D. Title: Assessing the Effectiveness of the Cincinnati Police Department’s Automatic License Plate Reader System Author: M. Murat Ozer, Ph.D. Title: Improving Statistical Modeling of Repeat Victimization: Zero-Inflated Effect and Bayesian Prediction Author: Seong Min Park, Ph.D. Title: White-Collar Offenders and the Prison Experience: An Empirical Examination of the “Special Sensitivity” to Imprisonment Author: William Stadler, Ph.D. Title: Being Pursued Online: Extent and Nature of Cyberstalking Victimization from a Lifestyle/Routine Activities Perspective Author: Brad Reyns, Ph.D. Title: The Construction and Validation of an Institutional Release Risk & Needs Assessment Author: Richard Lemke, Ph.D. 2009 right arrow down arrow Title: Structural Disadvantage, Terrorism, & Non-Terrorist Violent Crime in Turkey Author: Ozkan Gok, Ph.D. Title: Application of Situational Crime Prevention to Female Trafficking for Sexual Exploitation in Turkey Author: Halil Akbas, Ph.D. Title: Application of Situational Crime Prevention to Cross-Border Heroin Trafficking in Turkey Author: Mehmet Unal, Ph.D. Title: Girls and Boys, Apples and Oranges? A Theoretically Informed Analysis of Gender-Specific Predictors of Delinquency Author: Charlene Taylor-Kindrick, Ph.D. Title: Policing Styles in the Suburbs: A Test of Wilson’s Theory of Local Political Culture Author: Theresa Ervin-Conover, Ph.D. Title: Identifying the Correlates of Job Satisfaction for Job Resource Officers Author: Audrey Coaston-Shelton, Ph.D. Title: The Impact of Disorder and Fear on the Routine Activities of High School Students Author: Ryan Randa, Ph.D. Title: The Role of Genes and Abuse in the Etiology of Female Offending Author: Jamie Vaske, Ph.D. Title: Rethinking Gottfredson and Hirshi’s General Theory of Crime: A Behavioral Genetic Approach Author: Danielle Boisvert, Ph.D. Title: Reconceptualizing Crime as an Independent Variable: The Social and Personal Consequences of Criminal Involvement Author: Matthew D. Makarios, Ph.D. Title: Reconceptualizing Police Use of Force: Comparing the Determinants of Force & Coercion Across Alternative Measures Author: Charles Klahm, Ph.D. 2008 right arrow down arrow Title: Pretrial Release and Social Contexts: Is There a Link? Author: Junhyuk Ryu, Ph.D. Title: Getting a Handle on Street Violence: Using Environmental Criminology to Understand and Prevent Repeat Offender Problems Author: Marie Skubak Tillyer, Ph.D. Title: Social Conditioning of Police Officers: Exploring the Interactive Effects of Driver Demographics on Traffic Stop Outcomes Author: Robert Tillyer, Ph.D. Title: Maintaining Prison Order: Understanding Causes of Inmate Misconduct Within and Across Ohio Correctional Institutions Author: Benjamin Steiner, Ph.D. Title: Neighborhood Context and Intimate Partner Violence Author: Emily Wright, Ph.D. Title: Assessing the Predictive Validity of the Level of Service Inventory-Revised: Recidivism Among Iowa Parolees and Probationers Author: Brenda Vose, Ph.D. Title: An Exploratory Study of Racial Variations in Preferences for Police Work Author: Denise Nation, Ph.D. Title: Gendered Pathways: An Empirical Investigation of Women Offenders’ Unique Paths to Crime Author: Emily Salisbury, Ph.D. 2007 right arrow down arrow Title: Procedural Justice During Police-Citizen Encounters Author: Mengyan Dai, Ph.D. Title: Bar Management and Crime Toward a Theory of Dynamic Theory of Place Management and Crime Hot Spots Author: Tamara Madensen, Ph.D. Title: The Neglect of Racial Responsivity: An Examination Of Why Race Matters In Correctional Treatment Author: Georgia Spiropoulos, Ph.D. Title: The Development of Criminal Suspicion by State Troopers During Motor Vehicle Stops Author: Richard Johnson, Ph.D. 2006 right arrow down arrow Title: The Intersection of Genes, the Environment, and Crime and Delinquency: A Longitudinal Study of Offending Author: Kevin Beaver, Ph.D. Title: Reconsidering Drug Court Effectiveness: A Meta-Analytic Review Author: Deborah Koetzle Shaffer, Ph.D. 2005 right arrow down arrow Title: Gender, Risk Factors, and Juvenile Misconduct: Assessing the Generality-Specificity Debate Author: Leah Daigle, Ph.D. Title: Determining the Influence of Self-Protective Behaviors on Violent Victimization Completion: Results from the National Crime Victimization Survey Author: Shannon Santana, Ph.D. 2004 right arrow down arrow Title: The Adoption of Crime Prevention Technologies in Public Schools Author: Julie Kiernan Coon, Ph.D. Title: Specialized Response Programs: Police Handling of Encounters Involving Persons with Mental Disorders Author: Shamir Ratansi, Ph.D. Title: An Examiniation of Print Media Organizational Processes in the Reporting of Homicide in the Houston Chronicle Author: Kevin Buckler, Ph.D. Title: Race and Repeats: Does the Repetitive Nature of Police Motor Vehicle Stops Impact Racially-Biased Policing? Author: Lisa Growett Bostaph, Ph.D. Title: Criminal Places: A Micro Level Study of Residential Theft Author: Eric Jefferis, Ph.D. Title: A Community of Peers – Promoting Behavior Change: The Effectiveness of a Therapeutic Community for Juvenile Male Offenders in Reducing Recidivism Author: Jennifer Pealer, Ph.D. Title: The Correctional Orientation Of “Child Savers:" The Level, Sources, and Impact of Support For Rehabilitation Among Juvenile Corrections Workers Author: Kristie Blevins, Ph.D. Title: Correctional Program Integrity and Treatment Effectiveness: A Multi-Site, Program-Level Analysis Author: Christopher Lowenkamp, Ph.D. Title: Enhancing the Protective Capacity of Mentoring Relationships and Strengthening the Social Bond Author: Betsy Fulton Matthews, Ph.D. 2003 right arrow down arrow Title: Potential Applications of an Existing Offender Typology to Child Molesting Behaviors Author: Kimberly Gentry Sperber, Ph.D. Title: Discretion or Direction? An Analysis of Patrol Officer Downtime Author: Christine Famega, Ph.D. Title: Genetic and Environmental Contributions to Offending Over the Life Course Author: Lisa McCartan, Ph.D. Title: Exploring The Use Of Formal Authority In Police-Citizen Encounters Author: Robert Brown, Ph.D. Title: False Positives in the Criminal Justice Process - An Analysis of Factors Associated with Wrongful Conviction of the Innocent Author: Robert Ramsey, Ph.D. 2002 right arrow down arrow Title: Close Circuit Television: The Cincinnati Experience Author: David Hurley, Ph.D. Title: The Sources And Impact of Inmate Perceptions of Correctional Officer’s Bases of Power Author: Amy Stichman, Ph.D. Title: Assessing The Effect Of Sex Offender Notification on Emotional, Cognitive, and Behavioral Reactions Author: Victoria Beck, Ph.D. Title: Risk Differentiation and Intensive Supervision: A Meaningful Union? Author: Dena Hanley, Ph.D. Title: Stories of Violent Men: Discursive Construction of Offender Identities Author: Lois Presser, Ph.D. Title: The Impact of Presumptive Sentencing Guidelines on Disparity In Sentencing in Ohio Author: Timothy Griffin, Ph.D. Title: Cognitive-Behavioral Treatment: An Analysis of Gender and Other Responsivity Characteristics and Their Effects on Success in Offender Rehabilitation Author: Dana Jones Hubbard, Ph.D. Title: A Tale of Two Crime-Types: An Examination of the Welfare-Crime Relationship Author: Melissa Winston Burek, Ph.D. Title: Policing Small Towns Rural Places Suburban Jurisdictions Officer Activities, Citizen Interactions Author: John Liederbach, Ph.D. 2001 right arrow down arrow Title: Police Unions: An Empirical Examination Author: Colleen Kadleck, Ph.D. Title: Personality and Criminal Behavior: Reconsidering the Individual Author: Shelley Johnson-Listwan, Ph.D. Title: Understanding Female Desistance From Crime: Exploring Theoretical and Empirical Relationships Author: Elaine Gunnison, Ph.D. Title: Integrity, Legitimacy, Efficiency, and Impact: Do All These Matter in the Civilian Review of the Police Author: Melchor de Guzman, Ph.D. Title: Assessing the Relative Effect of Macro-Level Predictors of Crime: A Meta-Analysis Author: Travis Pratt, Ph.D. Title: Maternal Risk Factors, Early Life Events, and Deviant Outcomes: Assessing Antisocial Pathways From Birth Through Adolescence Author: Jeff Maahs, Ph.D. 2000 right arrow down arrow Title: Love Me, Hate Me, Beat Me: The Impact of Child Maltreatment on Delinquency Author: Shannon Barton Bellessa, Ph.D. Title: Community Policing and Federal Civil Liability Under 42 USC 1983 Author: Thomas Hughes, Ph.D. Title: The Meaning of Punishment: What Do Inmates Expect From Prison? Author: Martha Henderson Hurley, Ph.D. Title: Good Kids in Bad Circumstances: A Longitudinal Analysis of Resilient Youth Author: Michael Turner, Ph.D. 1999 right arrow down arrow Title: High School Aggression: A Social Learning Analysis Author: Stephen Haas, Ph.D. Title: Opening the ‘Black Box’: Assessing the Relationship Between Program Integrity and Recidivism Author: Alexander Holsinger, Ph.D. Title: Assessing Police-Citizen Encounters: Do Community and Beat Officers Differ? Author: Kenneth Novak, Ph.D. Title: Reconsidering Domestic Violence Recidivism: The Impact of Court Dispositions and Stake in Conformity Author: Amy Thistlethwaite, Ph.D. Title: Explaining Police Activities Across Urban Neighborhoods Author: Brad Smith, Ph.D. Title: Addressing the Distinct Experience of the Adolescent Female: Explaining Delinquency and Examining the Juvenile Justice System Author: Kristi Holsinger, Ph.D. Title: Educating the Public About the Police: The Lima PSA Project Author: Christopher Stormann, Ph.D. Title: Intensive Supervision Probation: The Effects of Supervision Philosophy on Intensive Probationer Recidivism Author: Kelly Brown, Ph.D. 1998 right arrow down arrow Title: Innovativeness in American Municipal Police Organizations Author: William King, Ph.D. Title: Beyond the Gatekeepers: Court Professionals’ Responses to Municipal Domestic Violence Cases in an Urban Area Author: Jennifer Hartman, Ph.D. Title: Explaining the Distribution of Random Gunfire: A Block-Level Analysis of the Relationship Between Physical and Social Incivilities and Random Gunfire Author: R. Cory Watkins, Ph.D. 1997 right arrow down arrow Title: Bringing Light to Dark Places: An Occupational Study of Prison Chaplains Author: Jody Sundt, Ph.D. Title: Variety in Policing: Job Activities of Municipal Police Officers in Ohio Author: Beth Sanders, Ph.D. Title: How Kids View Cops: The nature of Juveniles’ Attitudes Toward the Police Author: Yolander Hurst, Ph.D. Title: Defining the Occupational Definition of Police Excessive Force Author: Stephen Holmes, Ph.D. Title: Specifying Public Support for Rehabilitation: Factorial Survey Approach Author: Brandon Applegate, Ph.D. 1996 right arrow down arrow Title: RECLAIM Ohio: An Innovative Policy Initiative in Juvenile Corrections Author: Melissa Moon, Ph.D. Title: An Evaluation of Paint Creek Youth Center Author: Jill Gordon Potts, Ph.D. Title: Parental Support in﻿﻿ Juvenile Delinquency: A Test of Social Support Theory Author: John P. Wright, Ph.D. Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top