CAMPAIGN About the Campaign Key Initiatives UC Health Emergency Department UC Cancer Center Scholarships Recognition Ways to Give IMPACT Impact Stories UC student lifted by fellow Bearcats A Piece of History “Doc” ensures student-athletes are cared for Former UC Football Captain Supports Football Program Sisters and Bearcats Empower Our Next Leaders Explore Our Next Frontier Embrace Our Next Purpose Colleges Collaborate to Treat Depression Honoring a Daughter's Memory Finding Common Ground Donors Provide Scholarship Support and Real-World Experience Mallows met at UC; Now They Focus on Giving Back IMPACT Innovation at UC Legacy of Learning Preserving a Legacy Providing Elementary Students a Chance to Succeed Endowment Fund Supports Department of History Honoring a Legacy Giving Back to First Generation Students Preserving a Passion DAAP Student Makes Bold Moves Thanks to Donor Support Investing in Others Supporting the Future A Nontraditional Journey A Legacy Continued Sweet Support Expanding Horizons Getting Back in the Pool A Gift for the Future Making a Musician Scholarships solved the puzzle to success Lindner Professor Uses Analytics to Solve Problems Annual Report Videos NEWS Press Releases Huffman Foundation gift UC Foundation Trustee Gifts $3 Million to Carl H. Lindner College of Business Couple makes $9 million gift to University of Cincinnati Next, Now: The Campaign for Cincinnati Launches UC Emergency Funds Raise Over $55,000 News | Donation expands UC Health testing capabilities for COVID-19 2021 New Trustees UC Day of Giving a Success UCAA Day of Giving Downtown mural Endowed Professorship News Archive Mantei Center ABOUT About Us Careers Staff President Board Anti-Racist Statement Brand Guide SEARCH GIVE NOW Search: Search Make a Gift to UC’s Advancement & Transition Services UC’s Advancement & Transition Services (ATS) believes every individual possesses unique power, potential, and purpose. Your support changes the lives of those enrolled in our programs. The ATS program helps young people and adults with a wide range of intellectual and developmental disabilities discover and fulfill their purpose. Transition services is about more than managing life on campus. It’s about young people and adults realizing their full potential and taking their places in the world – a world that is enriched through their contributions. Use the below form to make your gift to Advancement & Transition Services. Learn more about the program. Questions about making a gift? Contact us at 513-556-6781. Donation Form Donation Information Amount: $50.00 $100.00 $250.00 $500.00 $1,000.00 Other $ * Choose an area to support: Advancement & Transition Services: Promoting Quality of Life for Persons with Intellectual & Developmental Disabilities The TAP Into The Future Scholarship Fund Impact Autism Fund for Educational and Employment Opportunities The Impact Fund Other Additional Information Type of gift: One-time gift Monthly Gift Frequency: Weekly Monthly Quarterly Annually Every 4 weeks On: Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Starting: Ending: Ending: To make your gift In Tribute To or In Memory of an individual, please type your instructions here. 
 Pledge ID: Matching Gift Company: Quick Links UC Home Alumni Association Campaign UC Bicentennial UC Health Contact Us The University of Cincinnati Foundation PO Box 19970 Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-6781 | 888-556-8889 513-556-4300 (fax) ucfoundation@uc.edu University Hall, Suite 100 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45219 Stay in Touch Like being the first to know? You’ll get timely updates on news, events and more from the UC Foundation. Subscribe Careers UC Foundation Privacy Policy Instagram Facebook Youtube Twitter LinkedIn