Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services CECH right arrow down arrow About CECH right arrow down arrow Headlines Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening right arrow down arrow CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships right arrow down arrow Action Research Center (ARC) right arrow down arrow What We Do Who we are Get Involved Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability right arrow down arrow Contact Us Donate Early Childhood Education Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) right arrow down arrow About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Publications Center for English as a Second Language right arrow down arrow ESL Placement Tests ESL Placement Guide ESL Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) right arrow down arrow Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture right arrow down arrow About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) right arrow down arrow Services Contact Training Institutes Products Resources COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center right arrow down arrow Services Selected Projects Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science right arrow down arrow Contact ICS Team Upward Bound right arrow down arrow About Us Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity right arrow down arrow Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative right arrow down arrow Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support right arrow down arrow Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources right arrow down arrow Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Student Recruitment and Marketing right arrow down arrow Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo right arrow down arrow Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean Academic Schools right arrow down arrow School of Education right arrow down arrow About the School of Education right arrow down arrow Research Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Early Childhood Education Online- Associates Early Childhood Education and Development- Minor Early Childhood Education- Online (Birth-Age 5) Early Childhood Education (Preschool- Grade 5) Human Development and Community Engagement Middle Childhood Education Secondary Education Special Education CDA Professional Development Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Curriculum and Instruction- Online Curriculum and Instruction - Onsite Educational Studies Educational Studies Ph.D. Educational Leadership- Online Instructional Design and Technology Literacy and Second Language Studies -Online Special Education- Online Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) - Online Urban Educational Leadership, EdD Forms Certificates and Endorsements right arrow down arrow Autism Spectrum Disorders - Online Blended and Online Learning and Teaching (BOLT) Certificate | Online Deaf Studies Endorsement- Early Childhood Generalist Endorsement Education for Environmental Sustainability Digital Learning Design Gifted Education Endorsement & Certificate Higher Education Leadership Certificate | Onsite Jewish Education Certificate | Onsite Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) -Online Middle Childhood Generalist Endorsement Postsecondary Literacy Instruction Certificate - Online Endorsement- PreK-12 Reading Instruction Certificate Special Education Leadership Certificate -Online STEM Teaching and Learning - Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Certificate Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) | Online TESOL K-12 Undergraduate Certificate Professional Development right arrow down arrow Teacher Resources Professional Development Resources License Renewal Courses FAQ Our Faculty and Staff Office of Educator Preparation right arrow down arrow Office of Field Experiences CAEP Accreditation Tk20 Professional Cohort Admissions Information Advancement & Transition Services right arrow down arrow About ATS Collaboration for Employment and Education Synergy Transition & Access Program Certificate IMPACT Innovation ATS News and Upcoming Events ATS Community Partners & Employment Giving Opportunities Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Community Volunteer Opportunities Research Opportunities Programs on Campus Scientific Research in Children's Literacy Lab Teacher Resources Teacher Awards Our Faculty and Staff UC BIPOC Teacher Pathway School of Criminal Justice right arrow down arrow Criminal Justice Career Expo right arrow down arrow Event Information Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Bachelors of Science in Paralegal Studies Minor- Criminal Justice Minor- Paralegal Studies Certificate- Forensic Populations Certificate- Foundations of Cybersecurity Certificate- Paralegal Studies Certificate - Correctional Rehabilitation Certificate- Crime and Intelligence Analysis Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Criminal Justice- Ph.D. Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate Analysis of Criminal Behavior Graduate Certificate Special Programs and Courses Undergraduate Research right arrow down arrow Application FAQ Testimonial Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Alpha Phi Sigma Criminal Justice Society Alumni right arrow down arrow Stay in Touch Contact Us Research right arrow down arrow Centers and Institutes Ph.D. Dissertations Our Faculty and Staff Summer Enrollment Courses School of Human Services right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Exercise Science Health Promotion and Education - Minor Public Health Public Health - Minor Sport Administration Sport Administration Minor Sport Coaching Certificate Sport Media and Promotion Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Online program Substance Abuse Prevention Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Certificate Violence Prevention in Families, Schools, & Community Certificate Yoga Studies Certificate Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Behavior Analysis Professional Certificate Online Counseling Graduate Programs School Psychology Graduate Programs Health Promotion and Education Graduate Programs Master of Science in Sport Administration Master of Education in Foundations in Behavior Analysis Student Resources Real World Connections Our Staff & Faculty Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow About the School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Information Technology Graduate Certificates Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program Course Descriptions Centers right arrow down arrow IT Solutions Center IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events right arrow down arrow 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students right arrow down arrow Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program right arrow down arrow Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo right arrow down arrow Senior Design Advisors News People right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community right arrow down arrow Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Programs and Degrees Future Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students right arrow down arrow Events right arrow down arrow Be Series Transfer and Transition Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Events Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Events Military and Veteran Students Scholarships & Funding Family & Parent Resources right arrow down arrow Future CECH Students Current CECH Students Virtual Map Tour Teachers and Guidance Counselor Resources right arrow down arrow Resources Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Services Center right arrow down arrow What is Advising Academic Policies Applications right arrow down arrow Readmission or change of College Change of Program within CECH Certificate or Minor Application Find Your CECH Academic Advisor right arrow down arrow CECH Student Services Staff Directory Gainful Employment Licensure Application Information Location Parent Resources Scholarships & Funding right arrow down arrow CECH Undergraduate Scholarships Student Resources Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Association (GSA) Study Abroad CECH right arrow down arrow Study Abroad Scholarship App More Info CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor CECH Scholarships & Recipients right arrow down arrow CECH Scholarship Donor Request Scholarship Application FAQS CECH Mentor & Volunteer Opportunities Alumni and Giving right arrow down arrow Alumni Engagement Contact Us Distinguished Alumni right arrow down arrow Past Distinguished Alumni Giving Opportunities right arrow down arrow Ways to Give right arrow down arrow Types of Gifts CECH Giving Priorities COVID-19 College Updates UC CECH » Academic Schools » School of Information Technology » Course Descriptions Set Navigation title in component Course Descriptions About the School of Information Technology SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline IT Discipline Tool-Kit Request Form Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Program and Application Requirements - Onsite Program and Application Requirements - Online Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Program Requirements & Application - Onsite Program Requirements & Application - Online Information Technology : Networking/Systems Information Technology : Game Development & Simulation Information Technology : Data Technologies Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Program Requirements & Application Graduate Programs Information Technology Graduate Certificates Program Requirements & Application Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Program Requirements & Application Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Program and Application Requirements Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program MSIT 4+1 Pathway Declaration Form Centers IT Solutions Center Technical Products and Services Talent IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Research Areas Current Students Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education CyberCorps® Scholarship for Service CAE-C Education Innovation Grant CAE-C in Cybersecurity Faculty Training Program GenCyber Cybersecurity Graduate Certificate Scholarship Opportunity Current Students Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Summer Camp FAQ Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Application Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo Senior Design Advisors News People Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Course Descriptions IT1001C Computer Applications right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course covers the use of the microcomputer in a professional environment with a focus on the innovative use of this technology. Students will use decision making tools to assist them in their work or personal environment (including assessing the opportunities and potential issues with the use of technology). The course focuses on technology; history of technology; components of the PC; the Internet; application software including spreadsheet, database, presentation, and Web technologies. Ethical issues are discussed. Learning Outcomes: Use the most recent version of Windows and Microsoft Office to manage files and folders, and perform basic system maintenance tasks Use Microsoft Word to: Create and edit documents Use templates and tables to create documents Create a research paper and a multi-column newsletter Use Microsoft Excel to: Create worksheets and chart data Use functions, create tables, and manage large workbooks Analyze data using line charts and What-if Analysis tools Use Microsoft Access to: Design relational databases and define fields Create and use forms, filters, and reports Sort and query a database Use Microsoft PowerPoint to: Create, edit, and present presentations Use visual tools to format data, objects, and pictures Enhance a presentation using animation, video, tables, and charts Use a combination of MS Office applications together to create Integration Projects IT1009 Intro to Python for IT right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course is an introduction to programming in information technology using Python and it is geared towards students from non-computing fields to explore the use of programming to solve problems. Hands-on active learning is required. Learning Outcomes: Describe the basic concepts of a computer program Develop Python programs for rudimentary basic problems IT1050 Fundamentals of Information Technology right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course is an introduction to the field of Information Technology including technology concepts, terminology, hardware components and software applications. Students will be introduced to and asked to apply basic skills in the core areas of information technology such as programming, database management, networking, systems administration, and web development and the basic research, problem solving and decision making skills required to be successful in this field. The course emphasizes the role of technical communication, project management, languages, tools, models and application architectures within the IT development process. Learning Outcomes: Describe the history of information technology and its associated disciplines Identify and explain the specialty areas and basic concepts of information technology Explain the information technology profession and available career paths Apply introductory skills and concepts related to: productivity applications, information management, digital media, web technologies, programming, networking, and systems administration Demonstrate college level communication, coordination, and collaboration skills IT1051C Fundamentals of Digital Media right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course provides an introduction and overview of software tools and techniques for creating digital media including text, images, sound, video, and interactive media. The focus is on using multimedia to communicate technical information effectively to technical and non-technical audiences. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Describe the multimedia tools used for sound, image and video production Plan and produce a multimedia project using various software programs Apply design concepts and include documentation in the presentation of project IT1055 Data Technologies Essentials right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course develops fundamental knowledge and skills related to data technologies and will introduce students to basic data manipulation, reporting, and visualization using popular software tools. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Process data for basic reporting Define the key terms related to data technology Discuss privacy and regulatory issues related to data governance, life-cycle, stewardship, and security Identify and design systems based upon modern data architectures Given a case study will be able to identify the best strategies and technologies to develop a satisfactory solution. IT1080C Computer Networking right arrow down arrow Course Description: A course covering the spectrum of computer networking in the theoretical and practical framework. Students will learn such topics as computer/network hardware, network media, topologies, the Open System Interconnect (OSI model) or other model, protocols, security, and network architectures. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Explain the operation of various computing subsystems Apply appropriate problem solving skills in supporting and troubleshooting computer hardware Explain the current model used for systems integration (e.g., Open System Interconnect (OSI model) and its importance and packet creation/delivery. Explain and apply network protocols. Identify the characteristics of various networking media. Implement a variety of network configurations. Explain what a router does, how it functions, and how it differs from hubs and switches. Use the protocols and underlining structures to create a logical network. IT1081C System Administration right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course will provide the knowledge and hands-on skills necessary to manage a Local Area Network and its resources. Topics covered include directory services, server management, file and print services, and user/client administration in a heterogeneous operating system environment. Students will setup and manage a fully functioning computer network of systems. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Use multiple computer system platforms, and understand the advantages of each. Install and administer network services. Protect and secure users' information on computer systems. Use the command line interface for system administration. Demonstrate strategies for planning/designing systems. Install and manage disks and file systems. Enable above learning outcomes in Windows and Linux environments IT1090C Computer Programming I right arrow down arrow Course Description: The course introduces students to object-oriented computer programming and problem solving. Students will learn about the basic elements of a computer program such as data types, basic control structures, graphical user interface, event-driven programming, and program debugging. Hands-on learning active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Demonstrate the basic processes involved in writing, compiling and running a computer program. Develop accurate algorithms to implement a programming solution. Acquire necessary syntax rules to communicate with the computer through the program. Explain and apply the principles of structured design to solve problems. Identify the appropriate use of operators including arithmetic, relational, logical operators, assignment, etc. Describe various data types as well as data structures used in variables and objects. Explain and use sequence, decision, and iteration control structures. Discuss the rationale behind and the basics of the current programming paradigm (OOP paradigm, for example). Explain and use methods. Apply the documentation process throughout the program life cycle. Demonstrate and implement arrays and array lists. Implement the fundamental concepts of the object-oriented paradigm: Inheritance, Encapsulation, Polymorphism IT2020 Implications of Information Technology right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course focuses on the impact brought upon our society by computers and its related technologies. Issues related to privacy, ethics, law, encryption, copyright, computer crimes, professional ethics and responsibilities will be critically examined. Learning Outcomes: Discuss how computing and information systems give rise to social issues and ethical dilemmas Recognize ethical issues that may arise from their Information Technology work Identify issues they may face as a member of a complex technological society Discuss the benefits offered by computing technology in many different areas and the risks and problems associated these technologies Describe social, legal, philosophical, political, constitutional and economical issues related to computers and the historical background of these issues Discuss the arguments on all sides of a controversial issue, and argue convincingly for their selected position Describe the current social and legal developments related to Information Technology. IT2021 Human Computer Interaction right arrow down arrow Course Description: Concerned with the design of interfaces that facilitate the use of computers and other personal electronic devices such as handheld devices. Theory and practice of usability is emphasized. Learning Outcomes: Apply a development life cycle to a problem Design and Develop a Software Prototype Identify needs, analyze tasks, and develop profiles of users Develop and evaluate effective user interaction designs Practice user-centered design development and deployment Evaluate usability of an application Communicate effectively- information architecture, navigation, interaction, graphically and with media IT2030C Information Security and Assurance right arrow down arrow Course Description: An introduction to the various technical and administrative aspects of information security and assurance. This course provides the foundation for understanding the key issues associated with protecting information assets, determining the levels of protection and response to security incidents, and designing a consistent, reasonable information security system, with appropriate intrusion detection and reporting features. Learning Outcomes: Identify and prioritize information assets. Identify and prioritize threats to information assets. Define an information security strategy and architecture. Plan for and respond to intruders in an information system Identify types of ethical issues regarding the use of information technology in our daily lives Know/understand the security- and privacy-related Federal/State/Local government-wide and organization-specific laws, regulations, policies, guidelines, and standards, and how to apply them Present a disaster recovery plan for recovery of information assets after an incident IT2035C Network Infrastructure Management right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course will provide the knowledge and hands-on skills to design, implement, manage and trouble-shoot the logical and physical network infrastructure components. Topics include: the Enterprise Composite Network Model, IPv4 and IPv6 addressing (or whatever the current Internet addressing system is); DHCP, DNS name resolution, NAT, PKI, switches, routers, VLAN’s, trunking, and routing protocols. Students will set up, manage and troubleshoot multiple topologies in both real and virtual environments. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Plan a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) strategy. Optimize and troubleshoot DHCP. Plan a Domain Name System (DNS) strategy. Optimize and troubleshoot DNS. Plan, optimize, and troubleshoot IPSec network access. Troubleshoot network access. Use routers and switches and understand placement and configuration of each. Develop a level of competency with the command line interface for these devices. Plan, design and implement for router and switch placement and protocol choices in an enterprise. IT2040C Fundamentals of Web Development right arrow down arrow Course Description: The course covers modern Web standards, well-formed and valid documents, Semantic XHTML/HTML, User-Centered Design of Static Web Sites, Styling and layout of Web documents with CSS, common tools for Web Site development. Emphasis is on coding syntactically correct Web documents using an engineering design perspective focused on functionality over visual design. Additionally, the course covers a variety of basic XML technologies for data representation and transformation. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Publish locally created web pages to a web server for hosting. Create a semantically correct standards-compliant web page. Use a variety of current Web technologies: HTML5, CSS3, XML, SVG. Apply responsive web design for addressing different devices. Evaluate websites for accessibility and visual appeal. IT2045C Computer Programming II right arrow down arrow Course Description: This is the second course on Object-Oriented computer programming and problem solving. Students learn and practice Object Oriented concepts such as inheritance and polymorphism. The course will cover advanced topics such as threads, data structures, files, database and network application programming. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Apply concepts of the object-oriented paradigm: Inheritance , Encapsulation, Polymorphism Model real world concepts into class structures and implement them as objects. Demonstrate communication within a system. Create visual components and handle events using current technology. Implement dynamic Web page components using applets. Demonstrate client/server programming using Java Demonstrate data handling using various data storage formats (e.g., text files, XML files) Recognize the reusability of objects in software development. IT2050 Game Design and Society right arrow down arrow Course Description: As an introductory course, this course aims to prepare students for the game development track by exploring the interdisciplinary nature of games and the fundamentals of game design. Topics may cover the history of games and play in human society; genres of games; technical and experiential features of games; characteristics of game players; social impacts of games; creating game concepts (game design documents); creating game worlds/settings; developing character or narrative; rapid prototype; fine tuning player experience (similar to the Human Computer Interaction courses); and game project management. Students will work in groups or individually. The end result would be using a rapid prototyping software/tool to prototype their ideal/dream game, which the game engine lab courses that follow will allow them to develop such a game. Hands-on active learning is required. Learning Outcomes: Explain that games are not simply software applications but focus on player experience Build a solid knowledge on why gameplay and fun is the core of any games more than anything else Conduct game design practices as craftsmanship that involves imagining a game, defining how it works, describing the elements that make up that game Examine business aspects of the gaming industry that impact design and development, including demographics, economic models, budgets, publishing, and marketing Practice using a rapid prototype software/tool to visualize and demonstrate game ideas IT2053C Data Technologies Programming right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course covers the technologies that are used to process complex data sets both structured and unstructured so that they can be analyzed computationally to reveal patterns, trends, and associations through a contemporary programming language. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Identify the different data manipulation programming technologies and their use Prepare data using different manipulation utilities Use different programming libraries to analyze varieties of datasets Implement a data analysis project using data visualization technology. Apply data analytics techniques IT2055C Contemporary Database Systems right arrow down arrow Course Description: Database development using popular contemporary non-relational database technology such as key-value, wide column, graph, and document. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Identify and describe the characteristics of contemporary databases Design a contemporary database Code queries that operate on the data Use management tools to administrate and secure a database Discuss when and where to use a contemporary database over a traditional implementation Develop a database application IT2060C Database Management I right arrow down arrow Course Description: This is an introductory course to the technology used for database development. Topics include the key database concepts, writing queries to retrieve, insert, update, and delete data from databases, and additional database features. Enterprise database management system will be used. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Describe the characteristics of databases and the features of database management systems. Identify the various data types available and best practices for their usage Code queries that retrieve data from one or more tables Code queries using advanced features (functions, aggregate operations, and subqueries) Code insert, update, and delete queries IT3020 System Analysis & Design right arrow down arrow Course Description: A broad study of systems development life-cycle, from the initial stages of systems requirement analysis to the implementation of the system. Different techniques and methodologies in different development stages will be studied. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Upon completion of this course, students will Describe the difference of analysis and design of information systems Describe the difference of water fall model and the iterative development Describe the Unified Process and its four phases Describe GRASP patterns and apply those to object-oriented system design Use UML to develop system design diagrams Design a system using the various accepted models (e.g., use case model, Domain Model, Agile methodology) IT3036C Enterprise Systems Administration right arrow down arrow Course Description: Techniques for successfully implementing and supporting network services on an enterprise scale and heterogeneous systems environment will be covered in this course. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Design, implement and maintain a directory-based server infrastructure in a heterogeneous systems environment Monitor server resource utilization for system reliability and availability Install and administer network services (DNS/DHCP/Terminal Services/Clustering/Web/Email) Obtain the ability to manage and troubleshoot a network running multiple services. Understand the requirements of an enterprise network and how to go about managing them. IT3037C Cloud Computing right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course focuses on cloud computing; the managing, integrating, and securing technologies and data found in the corporate datacenter. Specifically addressed are technologies and concepts such as intelligent storage arrays, storage area networks, network attached storage, business continuity, and server virtualization. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Describe technologies involved with data storage onto computing media. Analyze a corporate storage environment. Design proper storage strategies for the datacenter. Implement data storage solutions that utilize necessary security and access philosophies. Utilize tools to manage storage area networks and intelligent storage arrays. Implement server virtualization for use in varying sized networks. Manage the movement of virtual servers across physical servers and storage. Describe the various cloud implementation philosophies across physical servers and storage. Analyze best cloud solution (private/public/hybrid) for systems and applications. IT3038C Scripting Language right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course provides students with the ability to create scripts to automate networking and security tasks. Students will survey scripting languages for data processing and administration task automation to automate network, systems, and security tasks. Hands-on active learning is required. Learning Outcomes: Compare and survey scripting languages Be proficient in one scripting language to write scripts that automate network/system tasks Declare variables and use control structures Debug and handle errors Use regular expressions Query and manipulate databases using scripts IT3045C Contemporary Programming right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course deals with advanced programming techniques and design issues relating to enterprise-wide development. Topics include advanced object-oriented programming and techniques, database processing and database interfaces, and application testing and deployment using current enterprise application development tools and development and design methodologies. The course will cover both on presentation-tier development and backend development. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Create software application for the Windows operating system Apply Object Oriented principles for developing Windows and console applications Write programs that work with collections, generics, files and the registry Create multi-threaded applications Create and use web services Develop a database application that will retrieve data. Develop a database application that will manipulate data. Research and report on program security issues involving database applications. Create, display and print a Crystal Report IT3046C Client-Side Web Programming right arrow down arrow Course Description: Students will learn how to write a client-side web application using current technologies. Topics could include modern JavaScript programming, manipulating XHTML documents via the DOM, XML DOM programming, separation of code from page content and style information, creating rich interactive user interfaces and applications with AJAX, validation of form data using RegEx, using external data in XML, JSON, and other data formats in mashups, common JavaScript libraries. Hands-on Active learning is required. Learning Outcomes: Upon completion of this course, students will Write a client-side web application using current the current technologies. Which includes how to put JavaScript code blocks in the body and head of an XHTML document and how to write a user-defined JS function and invoke it. Dynamically write XHTML content via code with innerHTML and the DOM. Use conditional branching logic (if ..else). Use some of the basic capabilities of the built-in (intrinsic) date and time objects. Use common string and Math functions. Link dynamic content to a CSS style sheet. Create a XHTML form for user input. Understand how to use JavasScript Regular Expressions. Use JS RegEx to do form validation. Create a JavaScript application with a modern Dynamic GUI. Understand how to use a Finite State Machine model for application design. Use the JavaScript Timing functions. Create an application engine with JavaScript that promotes code reuse by using external XML data. Create an external JavaScript Code library. Use prevalent industry JS Code libraries for GUI and Application development. Create basic CGI applications IT3047C Web Server Application Development right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course covers development of dynamic web site using ASP.NET web application framework (or other current framework). It includes the following topics: input validation, master pages, site navigation, database backend, membership and roles, web services, website deployment and web parts. Hands-on active learning is required. Learning Outcomes: Describe the server side frameworks for developing web applications. Implement page rendering and server controls Implement master pages in web applications Implement data binding and login controls Deploy web applications Implement page objects Develop Web services IT3048C Mobile Device Programming right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course provides an in-depth coverage of developing applications for several of the prevalent mobile platforms using modern software engineering approaches with the Java programming language (or other current programming environments). The course has a heavy focus on project development with group work. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Practice Group/Team based development of software applications for industry prevalent Mobile Devices. Use common software architectural design patterns, interfaces, and abstract data structures for development of software applications for Mobile Devices. Use separate business logic and data logic code layers in software development projects. Use current industry tools (IDEs Software Libraries, simulators, etc.) for mobile device application development. IT3049C Web Game Development right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course will provide a functional introduction to programming for Web games and similar interactive media. The result will be competency in popular web programming languages (e.g., JavaScript, HTML) and game programming frameworks. This will be demonstrated by the creation of the mechanics for their Web game projects. Topics may include: Web programming syntax, popular Web programming libraries for games, game loop, sprites, interactive GUI programming, and creating the game environment. Learning Outcomes: Explain important programming concepts and JavaScript syntax for web game development Apply modern JS libraries for game development Create interactive GUI for games Practice using JavaScript to create game mechanics IT3060C Database Management II right arrow down arrow Course Description: The course covers database design and administration. Topics include, but are not limited to, logical and physical database design in enterprise environment, enterprise database server administration, stored procedures, triggers, back up, security, transaction management, concurrency control, etc. Enterprise database management system will be used. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Implement stored procedures Implement triggers Design and create views Perform administrative tasks such as denormalization, reading log files, backing up databases, scheduling and creating user accounts Set up security for the database system Describe the concepts of transaction management, concurrency control and recovery Demonstrate advanced query capabilities IT3071C Network Security right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course covers the array of technologies and techniques to secure a computer network and perform network/systems forensics when security is compromised or data is lost. Anticipation of network weaknesses then design the network infrastructure and policies to preempt potential attacks upon the network will be presented. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Protect and secure organizations' computer network. Understand and be able to apply defense in depth network security techniques. Explain and implement firewall, IDS, and VPN solutions. Apply appropriate problem solving skills in network and system administration. Understand data hiding, corruption and computer forensics Understand corporate and enforcement agency investigations Apply computer forensics workstations and software Be able to identify needs for computer forensics tools Integrate computer forensics hardware and software tools Prepare an incident response plan IT3072C Computer and Network Forensics right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course introduces the learner to the concepts and techniques of computer forensics. Topics include detecting incident occurrence, data hiding through alternate data streams and steganography, incident preparation, incident response tools, scanners and sniffers, and developing a forensics methodology. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Understand data hiding, corruption and computer forensics Understand corporate and enforcement agency investigations Apply computer forensics workstations and software Be able to identify needs for computer forensics tools Integrate computer forensics hardware and software tools Prepare an incident response plan IT3075C Network Monitoring and Intrusion Prevention Systems right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course teaches the concepts, applications, configuration, and implementation of enterprise network monitor and IPS technologies. Built on the prerequisite courses, this course is intended to teach the students the breadth and depth of the topics of SNMP, network management, deep packet inspection, log file analysis, anomaly detection, host and network based IPS, distributed IPS, and Honeynets/Honeypots. Learning Outcomes: Monitor traffic, conduct deep packet inspection, and detect network anomaly Collect and analyze security log files Detect, identify, resolve and document network intrusions Deploy and configure host and network based IDS/IPS systems Understand the concepts of Honeynets and Honeypots Be familiar with the SIEM (Security Information and Event Management) products and technologies IT3079C Topics in Information Technology right arrow down arrow Course Description: The course will provide students with hands-on experience in different Information Technology topics. Such topics could include, but not limited to, Security, Network Administration and Integration, Mobile Development, Game Development, Web Development, Programming Languages and Databases Management systems. The department will select the topics based on proposals from faculty. Learning Outcomes: Analyze problems related to the application of Information Technology Evaluate Information Technology solutions to the problems covered Perform appropriate Information Technology tasks relevant to the topics covered Develop components of Information Technology solutions using different technologies IT4015C Applied Business Intelligence right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course provides in-depth coverage of the data warehousing and data mining. Data warehouse topics covered include OLAP cubes and tabular models, how to extract, transform, and load data to a warehouse, multidimensional query expressions, and reporting. Data mining topics covered include mining algorithms, interpreting mining results, and data mining query extensions. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Design and build various data models Query a complex data storage system using advance query methods Extract, transform and load data using current software tools Create, build and deploy various mining models Use various mining models to identify an unknown value in a field IT4020 Management in Information Technology right arrow down arrow Course Description: General management techniques and specific issues and tools for project management in information technology. Learning Outcomes: Discuss the theory and practice behind the practice of management in a professional environment. Discuss the types of areas in which information technology plays a significant role. Discuss findings from research on a specific area of concentration (networking or software development)and illustrate the application of theories and practice of management Research and discuss professional attitudes and practices in the current IT world and as participants in class. Demonstrate an ability to communicate on several levels: 1) Rhetorically, as presenters within the atmosphere of a seminar in which there is an intensive exchange of information and ideas; 2) Interpersonally, as colleagues who are analyzing and assessing information and ideas presented by others, 3) Interpersonally, as learners interacting with professional practitioners of information technology, and 4) In writing, as learners communicating their research-based analysis and evaluation of information and ideas. IT4033 Senior Design Prep right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course is for students in their junior year in the School of Information Technology (SoIT) and is required in their last year before taking senior design. Students will review projects from previous years including final reports, project presentations, and the IT Expo presentation. The course introduces the expectations of the senior design experience at the SoIT and prepares students to select their projects and their team. The course culminates with senior design teams and project selection. Learning Outcomes: Describe the requirements and expectations of the senior design experience Explore projects from prior years including their report, presentations, and IT Expo posters Select project topic and team IT4036C Computer and Network Forensics right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course introduces the learner to the concepts and techniques of computer forensics. Topics include detecting incident occurrence, data hiding through alternate data streams and steganography, incident preparation, incident response tools, scanners and sniffers, and developing a forensics methodology. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Understand data hiding, corruption and computer forensics Understand corporate and enforcement agency investigations Apply computer forensics workstations and software Be able to identify needs for computer forensics tools Integrate computer forensics hardware and software tools Prepare an incident response plan IT4037C Special Topics in Networking/Systems right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course addresses technical advances in the area of computer networking and systems that are not covered by other courses in the IT curriculum. Topics may change from one year to the other based on these current trends in the field. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Varies with each offering IT4045 Enterprise Application Development right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course provides in-depth coverage of the development of large-scale, high-volume enterprise Web sites using distributed N-tier architectures and modern software engineering approaches. Various java programming language J2EE technologies are covered. The course has a heavy focus on project development with group work. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Describe the nature and scope of enterprise software applications Design distributed N-tier software application Research technologies available for the presentation, business and data tiers of an enterprise software application Design and build a database using an enterprise database system Develop components at the different tiers in an enterprise system Design and develop a multi-tier solution to a problem using technologies used in enterprise system Present software solution IT4063C Data Technologies Analytics right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course develops fundamental knowledge and skills related to data technologies and will introduce students to basic data manipulation, reporting, and visualization using popular software tools. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Identify use cases for the different data technologies Discuss categories and tools of the various data-related operations Discuss the various data technologies algorithms and their usage Use data technologies tools to create and manage data flows Implement a data analysis system using multiple data technologies IT4065C Data Technologies Administration right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course addresses technical advances in the area of data governance, compliance, security, lifecycle, administration, and advanced analytics methodologies. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Identify the types of data and data sources that fall under data governance Diagram the most common life cycle of data, from raw to production Discuss multiple-cluster infrastructure implementations and administration such as cloud, on-premises, and hybrid Use a data lifecycle and a data modeling tool Implement data access security and monitoring IT4076 Penetration Testing right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course provides students ethical hacking tools to develop skills and techniques to identify host and network vulnerabilities. Students will understand the scope of penetration tests and the responsibilities of performing these tests by following a strict code of ethics. Through hands-on lab exercises, students will learn to use a set of modern day software tools to perform various penetration testing tasks on simple computer hosts to enterprise level networks. Students, therefore, will be able to implement appropriate defense mechanisms to mitigate and remediate the identified issues. Learning Outcomes: Plan, organize, and perform penetration testing on a simple network Understand the ethical implications of penetration testing and the necessary organization defined scope of engagement Understand the potential negative technical implications of penetration testing on existing network and systems infrastructure Understand the impact of, and defense against, social engineering attacks Understand families of attacks and flaws that lead to vulnerabilities Identify and properly utilize the modern day penetration testing tools such as Nmap, Nessus, Metasploit, the Social Engineer Toolkit (SET) Perform ethical hacking to identify host and network vulnerabilities IT4077C Special Topics in Cybersecurity right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course addresses technical advances in the area of Cybersecurity that are not covered by other courses in the IT curriculum. Topics may change from year-to-year based on current trends in the field. Hands-on active learning required. Learning Outcomes: Varies with each offering. IT5001 Senior Design Project Management I right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course focuses on the knowledge and skills required to select a project and a product prototype. The purpose of this phase is to analyze the problem domain, design the solution and implement core functionalities in a prototype that demonstrates and proofs the design concept. The knowledge and skills gained from this course will be applied to the student’s capstone project through the co-requisite course (Senior Design Technical Practicum). The course is composed of four modules. The first module covers topics related to problem requirement, analysis, design and project life cycle. The second module covers topics related to project management. The third module covers topics related to unit testing and the final module covers topics related to communications. Learning Outcomes: Select a problem and conduct a feasibility study on its potential as senior project Analyze the problem domain and identify solution constraints Develop a project management plan for the development of the solution including resources, budget, timeline, and milestones Identify scenarios for testing the solution Present the problem, solution design and prototype Write a technical report that reflects the development of the solution following established guidelines. IT5002 Senior Design Project Management II right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course focuses on the knowledge and skills required to complete the second phase of the capstone senior experience: Final Product. The purpose of this phase is to complete the implementation of the project, conduct product testing and deploy the product. The knowledge and skills gained from this course will be applied to the student’s capstone project through the co-requisite course (Senior Design Technical Practicum II). The course is composed of three modules. The first module covers topics related to human computer interaction and user interface design. The second module covers topics related to product testing and deployment. The third module covers topics related to entrepreneurship and creating a business plan for the product. Learning Outcomes: Discuss project management considerations Discuss security considerations for Information Technology projects Discuss testing considerations for Information Technology projects Discuss deployment considerations for Information Technology projects. Present a final solution for the project together with testing results Write a technical report that reflects the final solution following established guidelines. IT5031 Senior Design Networking/Systems Technical Practicum I right arrow down arrow Course Description: The objective of this course is to develop a prototype for the senior project. This includes following best practice in analyzing the problem and designing the solution. Students will identify deliverables, create project plan and immerse themselves in the development of a prototype. This course is for students developing a networking and/or systems project in information technology. Learning Outcomes: Analyze and design an Information Technology networking and/or systems solution to the problem identified in IT5001 following best practice Identify solution deliverables Identify security, users, and problem domain constraints Develop a working prototype to demonstrate the solution viability IT5032 Senior Design Networking/Systems Technical Practicum II right arrow down arrow Course Description: The objective of this course is to complete, test and deploy the senior project. This includes to incorporate the feedback from the prototype presentation to complete the development of the project. In addition, students will follow best practices in testing and deploying the solution. This course is for students developing a networking and/or systems project in information technology. Learning Outcomes: Modify the prototype to reflect feedback from IT5031 Develop a full solution that meets all deliverables identified in IT5031 Conduct tests on the solution following best practice testing procedures Deploy the solution IT5035C Cyberattack Red Team Collaborative Seminar right arrow down arrow Course Description: Can we live in a secure digital space? This UC Forward-taught seminar will challenge a multidisciplinary set of students to understand cybersecurity and cyber aggression (cybercrime, cyber espionage, or cyberwar). Student teams will develop scenarios to engage in and defend against some form of cyber aggression. Teams will define a target and objective, design both the strategy and means to attack a relevant computer network or digital interface to achieve their objective and then be called upon to defend against another team's attack. Learning Outcomes: Demonstrate competency in the behavioral, political/strategic, and technical aspects of cybersecurity Perform as a constructive and effective member of a trans-disciplinary team Appraise opportunities to create new perspectives for problem-solving Conduct qualitative, quantitative and archival research Synthesize research and ideas to develop initial cyberattack framework Develop advisory input for external partner(s) IT5041 Senior Design Software Application Development Technical Practicum I right arrow down arrow Course Description: The objective of this course is to develop a prototype for the senior project. This includes following best practice in analyzing the problem and designing the solution. Students will identify deliverables, create project plan and immerse themselves in the development of a prototype. Learning Outcomes: Analyze and design an Information Technology solution to the problem identified in IT5001 following best practice Identify solution deliverables Identify security, users, and problem domain constraints Develop a working prototype to demonstrate the solution viability IT5042 Senior Design Software Application Development Technical Practicum II right arrow down arrow Course Description: The objective of this course is to complete, test and deploy the senior project. This includes to incorporate the feedback from the prototype presentation to complete the development of the project. In addition, students will follow best practices in testing and deploying the solution. Learning Outcomes: Modify the prototype to reflect feedback from IT5051 Develop a full solution that meets all deliverables identified in IT5051 Conduct tests on the solution following best practice testing procedures Deploy the solution IT5051 Senior Design Data Technologies Technical Practicum I right arrow down arrow Course Description: The objective of this course is to develop a prototype for the senior project. This includes following best practice in analyzing the problem and designing the solution. Students will identify deliverables, create project plan and immerse themselves in the development of a prototype. Learning Outcomes: Analyze and design an Information Technology solution to the problem identified in IT5001 following best practice Identify solution deliverables Identify security, users, and problem domain constraints Develop a working prototype to demonstrate the solution viability IT5052 Senior Design Data Technologies Technical Practicum II right arrow down arrow Course Description: The objective of this course is to complete, test and deploy the senior project. This includes to incorporate the feedback from the prototype presentation to complete the development of the project. In addition, students will follow best practices in testing and deploying the solution. Learning Outcomes: Modify the prototype to reflect feedback from IT5051 Develop a full solution that meets all deliverables identified in IT5051 Conduct tests on the solution following best practice testing procedures Deploy the solution IT5071 Senior Design Cybersecurity Technical Practicum I right arrow down arrow Course Description: The objective of this course is to develop a prototype for the senior project. This includes following best practice in analyzing the problem and designing the solution. Students will identify deliverables, create project plan and immerse themselves in the development of a prototype. This course is for students developing a cybersecurity project in information technology. Learning Outcomes: Analyze and design an Information Technology cybersecurity solution to the problem identified in IT5001 following best practice Identify solution deliverables Identify security, users, and problem domain constraints Develop a working prototype to demonstrate the solution viability IT5072 Senior Design in Cybersecurity Technical Practicum II right arrow down arrow Course Description: The objective of this course is to complete, test and deploy the senior project. This includes incorporating the feedback from the prototype presentation to completing the development of the project. In addition, students will follow best practices in testing and deploying the solution. This course is for students developing a Cybersecurity project in Information Technology. Modify the prototype to reflect feedback from IT5071 Develop a full solution that meets all deliverables identified in IT5071 Conduct tests on the solution following best practice testing procedures Deploy the solution IT6005 Independent Study in IT right arrow down arrow Course Description: Directed/independent project in information technology under direction of faculty member. Learning Outcomes: The student learning outcomes will be designed by the student and the instructor. Students will be able to successfully demonstrate an understanding of and apply technologies associated with a concentration area (project) selected by the student and professor. IT7001 Information Technology Graduate Seminar right arrow down arrow Course Description: The IT graduate Seminar is designed to provide opportunities for professional development of graduate students, raise their awareness of various other issues that they may face in their professional careers, and provide opportunities to survey research seminars of their interest. Learning Outcomes: Describe latest technologies in the field. Identify grand challenges in current IT field. Gain knowledge of diverse research sources available to IT graduate students. Effective use of a range of tools and techniques to improve communications and relations within the team. Increased understanding and awareness of how to solve problems within a team. IT7010 Information Technology Research Methods right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course focuses on scientific approaches to studying information technologies and writing thesis and other research reports. Learning Outcomes: Explain the theory and practice of IT research as practiced by professionals in the field. Develop a thesis and evaluate its feasibility. Develop a mastery of standard scholarly writing, such as theses and papers. Evaluate IT articles to assess the quality of the research. IT7020 Principles of Cybersecurity right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course introduces students to the field of cybersecurity by discussing the evolution of information security into cybersecurity, cybersecurity theory, and the relationship of cybersecurity to nations, businesses, society, and people. Students will be exposed to multiple cybersecurity technologies, processes, and procedures, learn how to analyze the threats, vulnerabilities and risks present in these environments, and develop appropriate strategies to mitigate potential cybersecurity problems. Learning Outcomes: Explain the nature of cybersecurity in an IT context. Compare and apply several models for security risk assessment. Develop an IT security plan for the target environment. IT7021 Enterprise Security and Forensics right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course is designed to provide students with the advanced concepts needed to establish network security strategies to ensure adequate protection for the organization's environment and yet provide accessibility for its community. Learning Outcomes: Use various computer forensic software tools and techniques as well as follow proper legal procedures for obtaining, analyzing and reporting digital forensic evidence for enterprises. Choose various techniques for preventing unauthorized attacks to enterprise assets, and apply measures for minimizing the damage caused by intruders. Apply critical thinking skills to risk analysis of enterprise computer systems. IT7022 Software Application Security right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course will examine perspectives and techniques to decrease the security risk of the software. When threats and vulnerabilities are addressed early in the development cycle, security can be built in. The scope of this course may be varied by the faculty. Learning Outcomes: Describe secure software concepts, methodologies and implementation of the software engineering lifecycle. Evaluate software-induced security risk through proactive design and exploit-driven testing. Evaluate enterprise level software security. IT7023C Technologies for Social Networking right arrow down arrow Course Description: Social Networking has become a popular method for communicating and sharing information in online groups via the Internet and other technologies. The purpose of this course is to introduce students to a variety of social networking development tools, including blogs, wikis, Twitter, social bookmarking, and cloud storage. Students will be provided information on each of the social networking tool, learn how to use them, and then work individually and collaboratively to formulate ideas for implementing social networking tools in order to facilitate working and the use of technology. The scope of this course may be varied by the faculty. Learning Outcomes: Design and use of social network technologies. Conceptualize, design and implement social networking application. Collaborate with peers to apply these social networking technologies to a variety of workspace and personal contexts. IT7024C Technologies for Mobile Applications right arrow down arrow Course Description: This class covers the technologies, devices, operating systems, and tools of mobile applications, as well as the mobile industry. Students will use tools to create apps for different mobile devices including smartphones and tablets. The scope of this course may be varied by the faculty. Learning Outcomes: Summarize the technical challenges posed by current mobile devices, and be able to evaluate and select appropriate solutions. Select and evaluate suitable software tools and APIs for the development of a particular mobile application and understand their strengths, scope and limitations. Use an appropriate application development to design, write and testinteractive programs for mobile devices. IT7025C Usability for Mobile Applications right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course teaches students the concepts and strategies needed to create usable interfaces optimized for mobile applications. In this course, students examine the foundation of creating logical, intuitive, and clear interfaces. The course examines interaction principles, experiential, and gestural design patterns relating from usability, visualization, and functionality constructs associated with human factors that drive touch screen interfaces. The scope of this course may be varied by the faculty. Learning Outcomes: Apply methods and technologies to evaluate the usability of mobile applications. Analyze, design, implement and evaluate mobile application usability. IT7027C IT Infrastructure Sustainability right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course introduces the planning, designing, and managing sustainable and resilient infrastructure systems and their interactions. It encompasses both built IT infrastructure and IT services that rely on integrated built and natural systems to provide corporate fundamental needs. The scope of this course may be varied by the faculty. Learning Outcomes: Develop planning and management of sustainable IT systems. Devise sustainability modeling of interdependent IT infrastructural systems. IT7028C Advanced Storage Technologies right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course introduces storage technologies in an increasingly complex IT environment. It builds a strong understanding of advanced concepts in storage technologies. The course focuses on architectures, features and benefits of intelligent storage systems; networked storage technologies; long-term archiving solutions, the increasingly critical area of information security and the emerging field of storage virtualization technologies. Learning Outcomes: Evaluate various storage classifications and technologies. Analyze storage architectures, processes, components and how they relate to virtualization. Justify the implementation of a range of storage solutions to enable enterprise operation continuity. Analyze storage security design, implementation, monitoring and management. IT7029C Advanced Systems Administration right arrow down arrow Course Description: Analyze and practice system administration processes for enterprise-level information systems. It includes advanced concepts in enterprise computing infrastructure analysis, deployment, management, and troubleshooting. Topics include, but not limited, enterprise computing resource requirements analysis and design, application and server deployment, virtualization, security configurations, and performance analysis. The scope of this course may be varied by the faculty. Learning Outcomes: Demonstrate setup, configuration, and maintenance of large scale Linux/UNIX /Windows servers. Apply system security, shell scripts, and server backups. Construct security policies and communication strategies with users in system administration. IT7030C Games for Learning & Simulation right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course introduces students to the use of games to influence learning and simulation. Students will investigate and analyze different case studies. Students will use game technologies to apply learning theories to develop games for educational and simulation purposes. Learning Outcomes: Analyze, design, and develop games or simulations in a team environment. Synthesize learning theories as applied to games. Incorporate learning theories in the development of games IT7031C Advanced Technologies for Game Development right arrow down arrow Course Description: This is an advanced course that explores different technologies and platforms for the development of games. Students will compare different technologies and will select technologies to implement a full life cycle of game development. Students will collaboratively in groups using advanced team collaboration tools. Learning Outcomes: Explore and implement game development life cycle Compare game technologies and platforms Work collaboratively in groups through the life cycle Use gaming technology to develop a game IT7032C Advanced Multi-Player Games right arrow down arrow Course Description: This advanced course covers the concepts underlying multi-user, networked games, from its definition, to distributed systems, to networking fundamentals, quality of experience and game design needs. Topics include real-time 3D graphics programming, network programming for multiplayer architecture, data analysis, security and other related issues of networked games development. Learning Outcomes: Compare different architectures for multiplayer games Design and development of a multiplayer mobile, social or online game Incorporate security principles in the development of multiplayer games IT7040 Human Computer Interaction right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course is concerned with the design, evaluation, and implementation of interactive computing systems for human use and with the study of major phenomena surrounding them. The course considers the inherently multi- and interdisciplinary nature of HCI and situates various HCI issues in the organizational and societal contexts. Learning Outcomes: Identify important human factors that affect human-computer interactions. Apply advanced HCI methods and techniques for human-centered information systems development. IT8003 Evidence-based Information Technology Practice right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course will evaluate the accumulated data, evidence, and research in support of different information technology strategies, tools and techniques. It will provide a foundational overview of evidence-based practice (EBP) as well as research-supported strategies for implementing EBP in real world settings. The course will improve the learner’s understanding and use of EBP, to include the ability to ask relevant questions, find and interpret the evidence, and apply this evidence to the IT practice. The critical thinking abilities, knowledge and decision-making skills developed in this course are particularly valuable for information technology leaders, and emergent leaders Learning Outcomes: Define evidence-based practice and discuss its philosophy and fundamental principles Discuss the importance of evidence-based practice in improving the IT organization’s outcomes Apply evidence-based practice process to address organizational opportunities and problems related to information technology Gauge the quality of available evidence in the domain of information technology, and use this evidence to inform an effective course of action Recognize the organizational, social, and ethical implications associated with different information technology strategies IT8004 Foundations of Human-Centered Information Technology right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course surveys the past and current theories, as well as the scope of issues and foundational topics relevant to human-centered practice of Information Technology: cognitive psychology, human factors, human-centered design methods, techniques, and evaluation. Learning Outcomes: Explain the rationales behind human-centered usability guidelines and heuristics. Evaluate past and current research in Human-Centered Computing. Apply current HCI theories to information technology. Appraise the principles, practices, and impact of human factors/human-computer interaction research on the practice of information technology. IT8005 Secure Information Technology Practice right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course will cover the current trends in the practice of secure information technology (IT). The learners will be introduced to real life scenarios demonstrating security implications for different IT decisions. The course will cover the evolution of IT solutions, the trustworthiness in an IT solution, and evaluating an IT solution with key system characteristics such as security, safety, reliability, resilience and privacy. Learning Outcomes: Discuss the evolution of secure information technology practice Apply the core elements of trustworthiness of an information technology system Identify metrics and key performance indicators for a secure information technology solution Evaluate security implications in the information technology solution lifecycle IT8006 Research Methods for Human-Centered Information Technology right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course surveys a broad range of research methods employed in Human-Centered Computing. The course will cover a variety of human-centered design techniques (such as contextual design, scenario-based design, participatory design, etc.) for use in developing and evaluating socio-technical systems. This course is intended for students in the Information Technology graduate programs; especially Ph.D. students who are conducing empirical design research. Learning Outcomes: Develop skills in the use and application of a variety of design methods, specifically applicable to user-centered design. Given a problem setting, critique the quality of different types of user information collection methodologies to address problems in information technology practice. Apply appropriate design methods in the solution of a given information technology practice problem. Compare the strengths and weaknesses of different human-centered techniques for a given design problem. IT8007 Social Network Analysis: Visualization and Hypothesis Testing right arrow down arrow Course Description: This is a graduate level course on the visualization and advanced analysis of social networks using computational tools. The course provides some basic foundational knowledge of the key theoretical concepts of social network analysis but is heavily on the methodological (e.g., how do we actually carry out research and test hypotheses on social networks) processes. The course begins with a definition of a social network and a review of key concepts from the underlying mathematical field of graph theory. The course proceeds to frame the field in terms of various research designs, data collection, and data management. After exploring research methods, the course moves on to multivariate techniques used in network analysis through dyadic concepts in network analysis and statistical techniques tailored to the special challenges of network data, such as non-independence of observations. Finally, The course covers types of data including affiliation matrices, large networks (Big Data), ego networks, and longitudinal data. Learning Outcomes: Test network hypotheses using advanced analytic methods Apply fundamental computational techniques to social network analysis Analyze social network data Write research report to explain the results of the analysis at a level ready for academic publication Design and implement a social network analysis research project IT8010 Information Technology Project right arrow down arrow Course Description: Individual projects are under the supervision of program faculty for partial fulfillment of the Master of Science degree. Learning Outcomes: In the project, students will demonstrate application of acquired skills and synthesis of knowledge. IT8012 IT Co-op Internships right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course allows PhD students to take a co-op internship in a related area in industry. This course will provide students with an opportunity to explore career interests while applying knowledge and skills learned in academia in a work setting. (By permission only). Learning Outcomes: Apply knowledge and skills learned in academia in a work setting Relate academic knowledge to real world IT problems IT8014 IT Teaching Practice right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course allows PhD students to gain teaching experience in a related area. This course will provide students with an opportunity to improve their pedagogy strategies and build a teaching philosophy. (By permission only). Learning Outcomes: Apply knowledge and skills learned in teaching undergraduate courses Practice teaching philosophy and pedagogy IT8015 Research Seminar right arrow down arrow Course Description: This course is to facilitate the development of incoming doctoral students’ dissertation research ideas and to build community among students and IT faculty’s research areas. Topic of the seminar will vary by the instructor’s expertise. Learning Outcomes: Recognize research areas for the faculty Conduct research on a specific topic with the instructor’s advice IT8020 Information Technology Thesis Research right arrow down arrow Course Description: Individual research under the supervision of IT faculty directs towards the completion of the MS thesis. Learning Outcomes: Identify the thesis topic and complete the exploratory research to demonstrate the feasibility of the topic. Write a thesis describing the results of the research Defend the thesis to the thesis committee. IT8030 Information Technology PhD Dissertation right arrow down arrow Course Description: Individual research under the supervision of IT faculty directs towards the completion of the Ph.D. dissertation. (By permission only). Learning Outcomes: Identify the dissertation topic and complete the exploratory research to demonstrate the feasibility of the topic. Write a dissertation describing the results of the research Defend the dissertation to the dissertation committee. Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top