Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services CECH right arrow down arrow About CECH right arrow down arrow Headlines Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening right arrow down arrow CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships right arrow down arrow Action Research Center (ARC) right arrow down arrow What We Do Who we are Get Involved Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability right arrow down arrow Contact Us Donate Early Childhood Education Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) right arrow down arrow About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Publications Center for English as a Second Language right arrow down arrow ESL Placement Tests ESL Placement Guide ESL Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) right arrow down arrow Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture right arrow down arrow About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) right arrow down arrow Services Contact Training Institutes Products Resources COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center right arrow down arrow Services Selected Projects Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science right arrow down arrow Contact ICS Team Upward Bound right arrow down arrow About Us Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity right arrow down arrow Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative right arrow down arrow Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support right arrow down arrow Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources right arrow down arrow Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Student Recruitment and Marketing right arrow down arrow Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo right arrow down arrow Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean Academic Schools right arrow down arrow School of Education right arrow down arrow About the School of Education right arrow down arrow Research Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Early Childhood Education Online- Associates Early Childhood Education and Development- Minor Early Childhood Education- Online (Birth-Age 5) Early Childhood Education (Preschool- Grade 5) Human Development and Community Engagement Middle Childhood Education Secondary Education Special Education CDA Professional Development Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Curriculum and Instruction- Online Curriculum and Instruction - Onsite Educational Studies Educational Studies Ph.D. Educational Leadership- Online Instructional Design and Technology Literacy and Second Language Studies -Online Special Education- Online Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) - Online Urban Educational Leadership, EdD Forms Certificates and Endorsements right arrow down arrow Autism Spectrum Disorders - Online Blended and Online Learning and Teaching (BOLT) Certificate | Online Deaf Studies Endorsement- Early Childhood Generalist Endorsement Education for Environmental Sustainability Digital Learning Design Gifted Education Endorsement & Certificate Higher Education Leadership Certificate | Onsite Jewish Education Certificate | Onsite Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) -Online Middle Childhood Generalist Endorsement Postsecondary Literacy Instruction Certificate - Online Endorsement- PreK-12 Reading Instruction Certificate Special Education Leadership Certificate -Online STEM Teaching and Learning - Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Certificate Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) | Online TESOL K-12 Undergraduate Certificate Professional Development right arrow down arrow Teacher Resources Professional Development Resources License Renewal Courses FAQ Our Faculty and Staff Office of Educator Preparation right arrow down arrow Office of Field Experiences CAEP Accreditation Tk20 Professional Cohort Admissions Information Advancement & Transition Services right arrow down arrow About ATS Collaboration for Employment and Education Synergy Transition & Access Program Certificate IMPACT Innovation ATS News and Upcoming Events ATS Community Partners & Employment Giving Opportunities Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Community Volunteer Opportunities Research Opportunities Programs on Campus Scientific Research in Children's Literacy Lab Teacher Resources Teacher Awards Our Faculty and Staff UC BIPOC Teacher Pathway School of Criminal Justice right arrow down arrow Criminal Justice Career Expo right arrow down arrow Event Information Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Bachelors of Science in Paralegal Studies Minor- Criminal Justice Minor- Paralegal Studies Certificate- Forensic Populations Certificate- Foundations of Cybersecurity Certificate- Paralegal Studies Certificate - Correctional Rehabilitation Certificate- Crime and Intelligence Analysis Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Criminal Justice- Ph.D. Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate Analysis of Criminal Behavior Graduate Certificate Special Programs and Courses Undergraduate Research right arrow down arrow Application FAQ Testimonial Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Alpha Phi Sigma Criminal Justice Society Alumni right arrow down arrow Stay in Touch Contact Us Research right arrow down arrow Centers and Institutes Ph.D. Dissertations Our Faculty and Staff Summer Enrollment Courses School of Human Services right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Exercise Science Health Promotion and Education - Minor Public Health Public Health - Minor Sport Administration Sport Administration Minor Sport Coaching Certificate Sport Media and Promotion Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Online program Substance Abuse Prevention Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Certificate Violence Prevention in Families, Schools, & Community Certificate Yoga Studies Certificate Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Behavior Analysis Professional Certificate Online Counseling Graduate Programs School Psychology Graduate Programs Health Promotion and Education Graduate Programs Master of Science in Sport Administration Master of Education in Foundations in Behavior Analysis Student Resources Real World Connections Our Staff & Faculty Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow About the School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Information Technology Graduate Certificates Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program Course Descriptions Centers right arrow down arrow IT Solutions Center IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events right arrow down arrow 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students right arrow down arrow Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program right arrow down arrow Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo right arrow down arrow Senior Design Advisors News People right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community right arrow down arrow Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Programs and Degrees Future Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students right arrow down arrow Events right arrow down arrow Be Series Transfer and Transition Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Events Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Events Military and Veteran Students Scholarships & Funding Family & Parent Resources right arrow down arrow Future CECH Students Current CECH Students Virtual Map Tour Teachers and Guidance Counselor Resources right arrow down arrow Resources Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Services Center right arrow down arrow What is Advising Academic Policies Applications right arrow down arrow Readmission or change of College Change of Program within CECH Certificate or Minor Application Find Your CECH Academic Advisor right arrow down arrow CECH Student Services Staff Directory Gainful Employment Licensure Application Information Location Parent Resources Scholarships & Funding right arrow down arrow CECH Undergraduate Scholarships Student Resources Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Association (GSA) Study Abroad CECH right arrow down arrow Study Abroad Scholarship App More Info CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor CECH Scholarships & Recipients right arrow down arrow CECH Scholarship Donor Request Scholarship Application FAQS CECH Mentor & Volunteer Opportunities Alumni and Giving right arrow down arrow Alumni Engagement Contact Us Distinguished Alumni right arrow down arrow Past Distinguished Alumni Giving Opportunities right arrow down arrow Ways to Give right arrow down arrow Types of Gifts CECH Giving Priorities COVID-19 College Updates UC CECH » About CECH » Centers and Partnerships » Corrections Institute » Contact » Faculty Set Navigation title in component Corrections Institute (UCCI) Services Research Development Practice Outcomes Contact Staff Faculty Fellows Dr. Lori Brusman-Lovins Dr. Jennifer Hartman Dr. Alex Holsinger Dr. Debi Koetzle Dr. Shelley Listwan Dr. Brian Lovins Dr. Matthew Makarios Dr. AJ Myer Dr. Jennifer Pealer Dr. Kim Sperber Dr. Charlene Taylor Dr. Alex Piquero Dr. Jessica J. Warner Dr. Ronen Ziv Dr. Kevin Knight Dr. Jennifer L. Skeem Contractors Training Institutes Products Assessments E-Learning Fidelity Interventions Group Interventions Individual Interventions Evaluations Resources Partners News Back On Track CNVC Grant Epics- I Webinar CSG Partnership Publications COVID-19 Resources Action Research Center (ARC) What We Do Events Research and Publications ECAR Dissertations Who we are ECAR Faculty and Students Organizations & Partnerships Get Involved Join the ARC Listserv Join the ARC Advisory Committee Contact The ARC Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability Contact Us Visit Us Arlitt Staff Donate Early Childhood Education Arlitt Child Development Center Academic Programs & Opportunities for Students Research Recent Projects and Publications Opportunities for Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Data Resources Request a Report Publications Grad Publications Center for English as a Second Language ESL Placement Tests Oral English Proficiency Test for Visiting Scholars (OEPT-VS) Oral English Proficiency Test for International Teaching Assistants (OEPT-ITA) ESL English Placement Test (ESL ENPT) ESL Placement Guide ESL Placement for Graduate Students English Placement for Undergraduate Students ESL Courses Summer Courses Academic Year Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center Services Selected Projects Evaluation in Practice: Assessing Improvement in STEM Education Testimonials Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science Contact ICS Team Upward Bound About Us Additional Resources Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) Projects & Services Team & Partners Faculty Edward Latessa Professor Emeritus (In Memoriam) VPCADMIN 513-556-5836 edward.latessa@uc.edu Edward J. Latessa, Ph.D. Professor Emeritus (In Memoriam) Our leader, Dr. Edward J. Latessa, passed away peacefully on January 11, 2022 at his home in Cincinnati, Ohio surrounded by his family, wife, sister, and children. A man of contrasts, Ed was stern but caring, loud but gentle, an Ohio State fan but a UC builder. He was, as his close friend Larry Johnson often says, the hard-shelled candy with the soft middle. Ed was a born leader who helped build this great program. He had a presence. Chutzpah even. He commanded your attention and you were happy to give it to him. He owned every room he stepped into. He was equal parts intellectual, philosopher, and pragmatist. And he was funny. Really funny. He was your best friend. Or at least that's how it felt being near him. Sharing a meal with Ed was both a rite of passage and a treat to savor. Sitting beside him at an event, no matter how serious, was always a risk worth taking. The risk lie in the fact that his inner comedian never took a night off. He could make you laugh out loud at the most inappropriate times. And he had a bullshit detector that he was never afraid to vocalize. Ed was a family man. He spoke often and lovingly of his family, and he always asked (and remembered) the details of your own family. He kept toys and candy in his office, hoping for little visitors. He readily dispensed important wisdom. He’d often remind those around him that careers are marathons not sprints; no need to miss anything important along the way. Ed understood human behavior better than anyone - like he was told secrets no one else knew. He could cut right to the heart of an issue like a skilled butcher, accomplishing in minutes what might take a trained professional several weeks to achieve. And he could motivate you with the simplest and slightest gestures. Whether those skills were God given, instilled during his upbringing in Youngstown, or earned over time we never figured out. When asked he would demure, in his classic way, with a pithy remark like, "it ain't that hard." What is remarkable is not that he had these abilities; rather, it is remarkable that he chose to use them consistently in such positive ways. Propped up by his skills, Ed helped build one of the best doctoral programs in the country. He also created an intricate research and training program that has led to untold reductions in harm and improvements to public safety. And he trained dozens of other scholars and practitioners along the way. His intellectual and professional legacy will live on through his contributions to the professionalization of rehabilitation and corrections in Ohio, the US, and around the world. There will never be another one like him. A memorial service is currently being planned for Sat., March 12, 2022. Updates will be posted here: https://www.caringbridge.org/visit/edlatessa Ed's obituary can be read here: https://www.cincinnati.com/obituaries/cen210298 History of Ed Latessa’s Career, Interview by Alex Holsinger, ACJS Criminology Project, 2017 (51.12): https://www.criminologystories.com/edwardlatessa Latessa Retirement Video, Aug. 2020 (5:04): https://youtu.be/NkEUcxopt2o Celebrating Ed Latessa, Nov. 2020 (30:25): https://youtu.be/6RUdO-rLVbA View Full Profile Christina A. Campbell Assoc Professor, CECH Criminal Justice 660MC Teachers College 513-556-5837 campb2ci@ucmail.uc.edu Dr. Christina Alicia Campbell is a tenured Associate Professor in the School of Criminal Justice at the University of Cincinnati. Dr. Campbell earned a B.A. from San Diego State University in 2006 and a M.A. and Ph.D. in Psychology from Michigan State University in 2012. She completed a postdoctoral fellowship in the Department of Psychiatry, Division of Prevention and Community Research at Yale University in 2014. Her passion for research was cultivated as a Ronald E. McNair Scholar and National Institutes of Health, Minority Biomedical Research Support (MBRS) Scholar. Dr. Campbell's primary research interests include delinquency prevention, risk assessment, juvenile justice, child welfare policy, and reducing racial disparities in the juvenile justice and child welfare systems. Dr. Campbell has over 35 research publications. Her research has been published in various peer-reviewed academic journals, including Criminology Public Policy, Criminal Justice and Behavior, Child and Youth Services Review, Crime and Delinquency, Journal of Traumatic Stress, and Youth Violence and Juvenile Justice. Dr. Campbell has received funding support for her research from the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities, the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the National Institute of Justice, and the National Science Foundation. Funded by the National Institute of Justice (NIJ), her last grant addressed race and sentencing disparities for youth involved in the juvenile justice system. Dr. Campbell is an NIJ W.E.B. Dubois research fellow and a member of the American Psychological Association, Society for Community Research and Action, American Society of Criminology, and the Racial Democracy, Crime & Justice Network. Dr. Campbell teaches juvenile justice, criminal justice, corrections, and psychology courses. View Full Profile Christopher Sullivan sullivc6@mail.uc.edu View Full Profile Ebony L. Ruhland Assistant Professor, CECH Criminal Justice Teachers College 513-556-5294 ruhlaney@ucmail.uc.edu Dr. Ebony Ruhland received her Ph.D. from the School of Social Work at the University of Minnesota. Her research focuses on how criminal justice policies and practices impact individuals, families, and communities. Dr. Ruhland is currently working on research projects in four areas: 1) examining factors that lead to probation revocations, including the use probation conditions, specifically supervision fees; 2) exploring factors parole members consider to determine readiness for release; 3) identifying ways to bridge police and community relationships; and 4) examining the impacts of parental incarceration on children. Through her research, Dr. Ruhland hopes to find ways to improve criminal justice and corrections policies to reduce mass incarceration, racial disparities, and collateral consequences while at the same time maintaining public safety. Prior to joining the faculty, Dr. Ruhland was the research director at the Robina Institute of Criminal Law and Criminal Justice at the University of Minnesota Law School. Her work has been published in Criminology, Family Court Review, and Children and Youth Services Review. View Full Profile Francis T. Cullen Distinguished Research Professor Emeritus , CECH Criminal Justice 660-O Teachers College 513-556-5834 cullenft@ucmail.uc.edu Professor Cullen received his Ph.D. in sociology and education from Columbia University in 1979. He is a past President and Fellow of both the American Society of Criminology and of the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences. He was the recipient of the 2010 ASC Edwin H. Sutherland Award. From 2010 to 2014, he served on the Office of Justice Programs Science Advisory Board for the U.S. Department of Justice. He has published more than 300 works in the areas of criminological theory, correctional policy, white-collar crime, public opinion about crime and justice, victimology, and the organization of knowledge. His most notable books include Reaffirming Rehabilitation, Rethinking Crime and Deviance Theory, Corporate Crime Under Attack: The Ford Pinto Case and Beyond, and Unsafe in the Ivory Tower: The Sexual Victimization of College Women. He has authored widely used texts, such as Criminological Theory: Context and Consequences, Criminological Theory: Past to Present—Essential Readings, and Correctional Theory: Context and Consequences. His most recent works include Communities and Crime: An Enduring American Challenge and Environmental Corrections: A New Paradigm for Supervising Offenders in the Community. In the graduate program, he continues to teach Structural Theories of Crime and Criminal Justice Research Practicum. View Full Profile John Wooldredge Professor, CECH Criminal Justice 660NB Teachers College 513-556-5838 wooldrj@ucmail.uc.edu John Wooldredge holds a PhD in Sociology from the University of Illinois and is a professor in the School of Criminal Justice. His research and publications focus on institutional corrections (crowding, inmate and officer well-being, and inmate crimes and victimizations) and criminal case processing (sentencing and recidivism, and micro- versus macro-level extralegal disparities in case processing and outcomes). He is currently involved in an NIJ funded study of the use and impacts of restrictive housing in Ohio prisons (with Josh Cochran), and in projects focusing on PTSD among correctional officers, prison program effects on offenders' subsequent behaviors during and after incarceration, and extralegal disparities in prison sanctions imposed for rule violations. Recent books include The Oxford Handbook of Prisons and Imprisonment (co-edited with Paula Smith; published by Oxford University Press in 2018), and Understanding Prison Violence (co-authored with Ben Steiner; published by Taylor and Francis in 2020). Recent journal articles have appeared or are forthcoming in Annual Review of Criminology, Crime and Delinquency, Criminal Justice and Behavior, Criminology, Criminology and Public Policy, Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Journal of Quantitative Criminology, and Justice Quarterly. In the undergraduate program, he teaches courses on institutional corrections and research methods. His courses in the graduate program include a seminar on institutional corrections, and classes on multi-level modeling, sampling, and structural equation modeling. View Full Profile Joshua C. Cochran Associate Professor, CECH Criminal Justice Teachers College 513-556-7688 cochraju@ucmail.uc.edu Joshua C. Cochran received his Ph.D. from Florida State University in 2013. His research focuses on crime, incarceration, and inequality. He is co-author of the book Prisoner Reentry in the Era of Mass Incarceration (2013, Sage) and also The Fundamentals of Criminological and Criminal Justice Inquiry: The Science and Art of Conducting, Evaluating, and Using Research (2019, Cambridge). His writing appears in leading criminology and crime policy journals and his research has received multiple awards including the American Society of Criminology’s Division on Corrections and Sentencing Dissertation Award and the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences’ Outstanding Student Paper Award for work from his Ph.D. thesis focused on incarceration and the implications for inmate social ties. He recently received the Distinguished New Scholar Award from the American Society of Criminology’s Division on Corrections and Sentencing and the New Scholar Award from the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences. View Full Profile Patricia VanVoorhis Professor Emerita Teachers College 513-348-9037 vanvoop@ucmail.uc.edu Patricia Van Voorhis, Ph.D., is Professor Emerita of Criminal Justice at the University of Cincinnati. She received her doctorate degree in Criminal Justice from the State University of New York at Albany. Dr. Van Voorhis has published extensively in the leading criminology and criminal justice journals and is the author of Psychological Classification of the Adult, Male Prison Inmate and lead author of Correctional Counseling and Rehabilitation, currently in its 8th edition. She has provided and continues to provide expertise to federal, state and local agencies on topics pertaining to correctional effectiveness, program implementation, evaluation techniques, women offenders, risk assessment and correctional classification. She is the former deputy editor of Justice Quarterly, the co-founder of the Division of Corrections and Sentencing of the American Society of Criminology, and has served on many professional and civic boards of directors, including for the American Society of Criminology and the International Community Corrections Association. Dr. Van Voorhis is a fellow of the Academy of Experimental Criminology and has received several awards for scholarly attainment, including the American Society of Criminology’s August Vollmer Award, the Simon Dinitz Research Award from the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction, the Coramae Richey Mann Leadership Award from the Minority and Women Section of the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences, the Marguerite Q. Warren and Ted Palmer Differential and Individualized Intervention Award, the Volunteers of America’s Maud Booth Award for Correctional Service, the Distinguished Scholar Award from the Division of Corrections and Sentencing of the American Society of Criminology and the Distinguished Alumni Award for Scholarship from the School of Criminal Justice at the University at Albany. She has directed numerous federal and state-funded, research projects and continues to pursue a rigorous consulting and research agenda in retirement. View Full Profile Paula H. Smith Associate Professor and Associate Director, CECH Criminal Justice 660Q Teachers College 513-556-2775 smithp8@ucmail.uc.edu Dr. Paula Smith is an Associate Professor in the School of Criminal Justice at the University of Cincinnati. She received her Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of New Brunswick, Saint John in 2006. Her research interests include offender classification and assessment, correctional rehabilitation, the psychological effects of incarceration, program implementation and evaluation, the transfer of knowledge to practitioners and policy-makers, and meta-analysis. She is co-author of Corrections in the Community, and has also authored more than thirty journal articles and book chapters. Dr. Smith has directed numerous federal and state funded research projects, including studies of prisons, community-based correctional programs, juvenile drug courts, probation and parole departments, and mental health services. Furthermore, she has been involved in evaluations of more than 280 correctional programs throughout the United States. In addition to her research experience, Dr. Smith has considerable frontline experience working with a variety of offender populations, including juvenile offenders, sex offenders, and perpetrators of domestic violence. Currently, she provides training and technical assistance to criminal justice agencies throughout the United States and Canada. Paula undertook her doctoral work in at the University of New Brunswick. She was previously a Research Associate with the Centre for Criminal Justice Studies at the University of New Brunswick. She has also been involved in the development and delivery of treatment programs to federal parolees with the Correctional Service of Canada. Her research interests include meta-analysis, the assessment of offender treatment and deterrence programs, the development of actuarial assessments for clinicians and managers in prisons and community corrections, the effects of prison life, treatment responsivity, and the transfer of knowledge to practitioners and policy makers. She has co-authored several articles, book chapters, and conference presentations on the above topics. She teaches Meta Analysis and the Psychology of Criminal Behavior. View Full Profile Sarah Manchak Associate Professor, CECH Criminal Justice 660MA Teachers College 513-556-1782 manchash@ucmail.uc.edu Sarah M. Manchak is an Associate Professor in the School of Criminal Justice at the University of Cincinnati. She received her Ph.D. in experimental psychopathology with a concentration in psychology and the law from the University of California, Irvine in 2011. Prior to that, she earned her MA in forensic psychology at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Dr. Manchak's research seeks to inform policy and interventions for offenders and individuals with serious mental illness and/or addiction. Dr. Manchak teaches at the undergraduate and graduate levels, is the coordinator of the undergraduate research program, runs the faculty-led study abroad program in Scotland, and is the academic advisor for the undergraduate/university chapters of the Ohio Innocence Project, College Mentors for Kids, and the American Correctional Association. To learn more, visit Dr. Manchak's website at www.cjimpactresearch.com. View Full Profile Valerie R. Anderson Assistant Professor, CECH Criminal Justice 650H Teachers College 513-556-2328 andersve@ucmail.uc.edu Professor Anderson received her Ph.D. in community psychology from Michigan State University in 2015 and completed a postdoctoral fellowship at Indiana University School of Medicine prior to joining the faculty in 2016. The central focus of her research program is to understand juvenile corrections and victimization, and—more specifically—the circumstances and contexts in which these areas intersect. Given that framework, her research program includes two primary substantive areas of inquiry: (1) the juvenile justice system, and (2) the scope and impact of human trafficking. Her examination of these specific topics spans multiple ecological levels of analysis (e.g., individual, relational, environmental, socio-structural) and utilizes quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods approaches. Dr. Anderson has recently served as the principal investigator on two funded studies: (1) a state-wide human trafficking prevalence study funded by the Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services, (2) a study examining the health-related characteristics and context of girls in juvenile detention funded through Cincinnati Children’s CCTST Partnership Development Grant. She also served as the principal investigator on an American Psychological Association funded public policy grant examining gender-responsive practices in the juvenile justice system. Her research is featured in a variety of criminal justice, public health, and psychology journals. View Full Profile Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top