Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services CECH right arrow down arrow About CECH right arrow down arrow Headlines Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening right arrow down arrow CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships right arrow down arrow Action Research Center (ARC) right arrow down arrow What We Do Who we are Get Involved Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability right arrow down arrow Contact Us Donate Early Childhood Education Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) right arrow down arrow About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Publications Center for English as a Second Language right arrow down arrow ESL Placement Tests ESL Placement Guide ESL Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) right arrow down arrow Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture right arrow down arrow About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) right arrow down arrow Services Contact Training Institutes Products Resources COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center right arrow down arrow Services Selected Projects Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science right arrow down arrow Contact ICS Team Upward Bound right arrow down arrow About Us Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity right arrow down arrow Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative right arrow down arrow Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support right arrow down arrow Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources right arrow down arrow Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Student Recruitment and Marketing right arrow down arrow Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo right arrow down arrow Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean Academic Schools right arrow down arrow School of Education right arrow down arrow About the School of Education right arrow down arrow Research Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Early Childhood Education Online- Associates Early Childhood Education and Development- Minor Early Childhood Education- Online (Birth-Age 5) Early Childhood Education (Preschool- Grade 5) Human Development and Community Engagement Middle Childhood Education Secondary Education Special Education CDA Professional Development Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Curriculum and Instruction- Online Curriculum and Instruction - Onsite Educational Studies Educational Studies Ph.D. Educational Leadership- Online Instructional Design and Technology Literacy and Second Language Studies -Online Special Education- Online Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) - Online Urban Educational Leadership, EdD Forms Certificates and Endorsements right arrow down arrow Autism Spectrum Disorders - Online Blended and Online Learning and Teaching (BOLT) Certificate | Online Deaf Studies Endorsement- Early Childhood Generalist Endorsement Education for Environmental Sustainability Digital Learning Design Gifted Education Endorsement & Certificate Higher Education Leadership Certificate | Onsite Jewish Education Certificate | Onsite Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) -Online Middle Childhood Generalist Endorsement Postsecondary Literacy Instruction Certificate - Online Endorsement- PreK-12 Reading Instruction Certificate Special Education Leadership Certificate -Online STEM Teaching and Learning - Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Certificate Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) | Online TESOL K-12 Undergraduate Certificate Professional Development right arrow down arrow Teacher Resources Professional Development Resources License Renewal Courses FAQ Our Faculty and Staff Office of Educator Preparation right arrow down arrow Office of Field Experiences CAEP Accreditation Tk20 Professional Cohort Admissions Information Advancement & Transition Services right arrow down arrow About ATS Collaboration for Employment and Education Synergy Transition & Access Program Certificate IMPACT Innovation ATS News and Upcoming Events ATS Community Partners & Employment Giving Opportunities Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Community Volunteer Opportunities Research Opportunities Programs on Campus Scientific Research in Children's Literacy Lab Teacher Resources Teacher Awards Our Faculty and Staff UC BIPOC Teacher Pathway School of Criminal Justice right arrow down arrow Criminal Justice Career Expo right arrow down arrow Event Information Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Bachelors of Science in Paralegal Studies Minor- Criminal Justice Minor- Paralegal Studies Certificate- Forensic Populations Certificate- Foundations of Cybersecurity Certificate- Paralegal Studies Certificate - Correctional Rehabilitation Certificate- Crime and Intelligence Analysis Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Criminal Justice- Ph.D. Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate Analysis of Criminal Behavior Graduate Certificate Special Programs and Courses Undergraduate Research right arrow down arrow Application FAQ Testimonial Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Alpha Phi Sigma Criminal Justice Society Alumni right arrow down arrow Stay in Touch Contact Us Research right arrow down arrow Centers and Institutes Ph.D. Dissertations Our Faculty and Staff Summer Enrollment Courses School of Human Services right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Exercise Science Health Promotion and Education - Minor Public Health Public Health - Minor Sport Administration Sport Administration Minor Sport Coaching Certificate Sport Media and Promotion Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Online program Substance Abuse Prevention Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Certificate Violence Prevention in Families, Schools, & Community Certificate Yoga Studies Certificate Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Behavior Analysis Professional Certificate Online Counseling Graduate Programs School Psychology Graduate Programs Health Promotion and Education Graduate Programs Master of Science in Sport Administration Master of Education in Foundations in Behavior Analysis Student Resources Real World Connections Our Staff & Faculty Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow About the School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Information Technology Graduate Certificates Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program Course Descriptions Centers right arrow down arrow IT Solutions Center IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events right arrow down arrow 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students right arrow down arrow Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program right arrow down arrow Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo right arrow down arrow Senior Design Advisors News People right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community right arrow down arrow Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Programs and Degrees Future Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students right arrow down arrow Events right arrow down arrow Be Series Transfer and Transition Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Events Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Events Military and Veteran Students Scholarships & Funding Family & Parent Resources right arrow down arrow Future CECH Students Current CECH Students Virtual Map Tour Teachers and Guidance Counselor Resources right arrow down arrow Resources Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Services Center right arrow down arrow What is Advising Academic Policies Applications right arrow down arrow Readmission or change of College Change of Program within CECH Certificate or Minor Application Find Your CECH Academic Advisor right arrow down arrow CECH Student Services Staff Directory Gainful Employment Licensure Application Information Location Parent Resources Scholarships & Funding right arrow down arrow CECH Undergraduate Scholarships Student Resources Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Association (GSA) Study Abroad CECH right arrow down arrow Study Abroad Scholarship App More Info CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor CECH Scholarships & Recipients right arrow down arrow CECH Scholarship Donor Request Scholarship Application FAQS CECH Mentor & Volunteer Opportunities Alumni and Giving right arrow down arrow Alumni Engagement Contact Us Distinguished Alumni right arrow down arrow Past Distinguished Alumni Giving Opportunities right arrow down arrow Ways to Give right arrow down arrow Types of Gifts CECH Giving Priorities COVID-19 College Updates UC CECH » About CECH » Centers and Partnerships » Corrections Institute » Products » Interventions Set Navigation title in component Corrections Institute (UCCI) Services Research Development Practice Outcomes Contact Staff Faculty Fellows Dr. Lori Brusman-Lovins Dr. Jennifer Hartman Dr. Alex Holsinger Dr. Debi Koetzle Dr. Shelley Listwan Dr. Brian Lovins Dr. Matthew Makarios Dr. AJ Myer Dr. Jennifer Pealer Dr. Kim Sperber Dr. Charlene Taylor Dr. Alex Piquero Dr. Jessica J. Warner Dr. Ronen Ziv Dr. Kevin Knight Dr. Jennifer L. Skeem Contractors Training Institutes Products Assessments E-Learning Fidelity Interventions Group Interventions Individual Interventions Evaluations Resources Partners News Back On Track CNVC Grant Epics- I Webinar CSG Partnership Publications COVID-19 Resources Action Research Center (ARC) What We Do Events Research and Publications ECAR Dissertations Who we are ECAR Faculty and Students Organizations & Partnerships Get Involved Join the ARC Listserv Join the ARC Advisory Committee Contact The ARC Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability Contact Us Visit Us Arlitt Staff Donate Early Childhood Education Arlitt Child Development Center Academic Programs & Opportunities for Students Research Recent Projects and Publications Opportunities for Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Data Resources Request a Report Publications Grad Publications Center for English as a Second Language ESL Placement Tests Oral English Proficiency Test for Visiting Scholars (OEPT-VS) Oral English Proficiency Test for International Teaching Assistants (OEPT-ITA) ESL English Placement Test (ESL ENPT) ESL Placement Guide ESL Placement for Graduate Students English Placement for Undergraduate Students ESL Courses Summer Courses Academic Year Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center Services Selected Projects Evaluation in Practice: Assessing Improvement in STEM Education Testimonials Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science Contact ICS Team Upward Bound About Us Additional Resources Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) Projects & Services Team & Partners Interventions UCCI values agency partners and relies on their input to collective identify and respond to gaps in the field. As such, UCCI has developed several structured cognitive behavioral GROUP INTERVENTIONS. Our curricula have been piloted by correctional practitioners in a variety of settings. Research has demonstrated that a collaborative relationship model utilizing social learning theory and cognitive-behavioral approaches afford agency staff ways to provide INDIVIDUAL INTERVENTION opportunities. In one-on-one sessions or situations, staff have the ability to shape behavior in ways that lead to long-term change. Theoretical Influences UCCI interventions utilize a cognitive-behavioral approach to change behavior through means of social learning and motivational engagement. More specifically, we place heavy emphasis on skill building activities to assist with cognitive, social, emotional, and coping skill development. COGNITIVE-BEHAVIORAL INTERVENTIONS (CBI) right arrow down arrow CBI rely on strategies designed to change the cognitions that influence maladaptive behavior and to improve functioning. There are four major themes that describe these types of interventions have been identified (Spiegler and Guevremont, 2010). First, the approach is scientific, meaning it relies on empirical support for its therapeutic strategies. Second, CBI is action-oriented. People have to engage in many activities, such as role play, as part of the therapeutic process. This stands in contrast with many of the non-directive talk therapy or more confrontational approaches. Third, a CBI approach is focused on the present; therapeutic strategies are aimed at changing the current risk factors that impact a person’s high risk behavior. Fourth, there is also a focus on learning with a CBI approach. UCCI encourages persons spend a significant amount of time learning and practicing new methods of handling risky situations. In addition, CBI should include brief, individualized sessions that incorporate multiple steps the person must demonstrate to complete the program. CBI use strategies gleaned from social learning theory, cognitive theory, and behaviorism. Social learning theory, developed by Albert Bandura, posits that people learn new behavior by watching others’ behavior and imitating it. Children learn their native language by listening to and copying the people around them. The same may be true for people who struggle with identifying and managing risk factors. Next, cognitive theory asserts that our thoughts, attitudes, values, and beliefs drive our behavior. Behavioral theory recognizes the importance of reinforcement in predicting behavior. When criminal thinking or related behavior leads to a pleasurable effect, the behavior is reinforced. Pleasurable effects include feeling powerful, energetic, euphoric, relaxed, or stimulated. UCCI interventions provide opportunities for persons to identify the particular reinforcers that contribute to risky behaviors, as well as ample opportunities to explore the negative consequences of those behaviors. It is these negative consequences (e.g., lack of financial stability, evictions, or loss of possessions, legal repercussions) that often fuel their desire to change their behavior. COGNITIVE RESTRUCTURING right arrow down arrow Actions and thoughts that are repeated are likely to become habits. In CBI, we work to learn new thoughts and behaviors that will lead to new habits. Those new habits can then lead to increased success and goal achievement. To illustrate how thoughts influence behavior, we use an iceberg metaphor. The exposed portion of the iceberg represents behavior that can be observed by others. Underneath the exposed portion of the iceberg is a much larger, submerged portion of ice. This portion is analogous to our thoughts, feelings, and attitudes, and beliefs. All areas support and drive a person’s behavior. With this in mind, if we want to change a person’s behavior, we first must explore what is under the surface and identify how it drives behavior. Once identified, the goal is to replace the risky thoughts, feelings, and beliefs with new ones that are consistent with the goals of this intervention. Cognitive restructuring uses a guided approach that includes linking thoughts and behaviors, teaching people to identify risky thoughts, and implementing new thinking. SKILLS TRAINING right arrow down arrow CBI also employs skills training. Many people do not recognize that they have already proven capable of developing the complex set of skills needed to succeed. In other words, the skills people have used to avoid conflicts at home can be applied to successfully manage challenges at work or in social settings. Helping people recognize their abilities to learn skills can support self-efficacy, which will help them live healthier lifestyles. The skills within the CBI framework are designed to help a person develop ways to respond to high risk situations. CBI teaches skills and strategies that people can use long after the intervention. For example, the skills involved in using self-control (recognizing and avoiding cues, modifying behavior through self-control techniques, and so on) can be used to deal with a variety of strong emotional states that could lead to antisocial behavior. PROBLEM SOLVING right arrow down arrow One of the most important skills for successfully navigating the world is problem solving. It relies on one’s capacity to think about the problem objectively, often identifying a variety of complex factors. Problem solving is least effective when a person is emotionally reacting to a situation. When the person is calm, the ability to analyze the possible choices involved and link them to a desired outcome is greatly enhanced. The behavioral aspect comes into play when the chosen approach to handling the problem is put into action. Each of these actions should be reviewed and evaluated so that further learning can occur. In this curriculum, people will learn and practice steps to effective problem solving. In this way, the problem solving process is directed by the person and can be applied to any type of problem the person may face. Problem solving is considered an advanced and introduced once people incorporate previously learned skills to develop solutions to their problems. Cognitive restructuring, emotion regulation and interpersonal skills converge to equip people to solve more complex problems in productive ways. MOTIVATIONAL ENGAGEMENT right arrow down arrow Programming for justice involved individuals requires a good deal of engagement since they are often compelled (rather than volunteering) to seek treatment. The spirit of motivational interviewing (see Miller & Rollnick, 2002) is woven throughout UCCI interventions to decrease resistance and increase motivation for change. This is accomplished by helping individuals identify their basic values and using those values to build ambivalence toward their high risk behaviors. Additionally, motivation engagement techniques such as the use of open-ended questions, reflections, affirmations, and summaries are built into all UCCI interventions. Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top