Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services CECH right arrow down arrow About CECH right arrow down arrow Headlines Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening right arrow down arrow CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships right arrow down arrow Action Research Center (ARC) right arrow down arrow What We Do Who we are Get Involved Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability right arrow down arrow Contact Us Donate Early Childhood Education Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) right arrow down arrow About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Publications Center for English as a Second Language right arrow down arrow ESL Placement Tests ESL Placement Guide ESL Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) right arrow down arrow Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture right arrow down arrow About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) right arrow down arrow Services Contact Training Institutes Products Resources COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center right arrow down arrow Services Selected Projects Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science right arrow down arrow Contact ICS Team Upward Bound right arrow down arrow About Us Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity right arrow down arrow Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative right arrow down arrow Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support right arrow down arrow Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources right arrow down arrow Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Student Recruitment and Marketing right arrow down arrow Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo right arrow down arrow Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean Academic Schools right arrow down arrow School of Education right arrow down arrow About the School of Education right arrow down arrow Research Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Early Childhood Education Online- Associates Early Childhood Education and Development- Minor Early Childhood Education- Online (Birth-Age 5) Early Childhood Education (Preschool- Grade 5) Human Development and Community Engagement Middle Childhood Education Secondary Education Special Education CDA Professional Development Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Curriculum and Instruction- Online Curriculum and Instruction - Onsite Educational Studies Educational Studies Ph.D. Educational Leadership- Online Instructional Design and Technology Literacy and Second Language Studies -Online Special Education- Online Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) - Online Urban Educational Leadership, EdD Forms Certificates and Endorsements right arrow down arrow Autism Spectrum Disorders - Online Blended and Online Learning and Teaching (BOLT) Certificate | Online Deaf Studies Endorsement- Early Childhood Generalist Endorsement Education for Environmental Sustainability Digital Learning Design Gifted Education Endorsement & Certificate Higher Education Leadership Certificate | Onsite Jewish Education Certificate | Onsite Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) -Online Middle Childhood Generalist Endorsement Postsecondary Literacy Instruction Certificate - Online Endorsement- PreK-12 Reading Instruction Certificate Special Education Leadership Certificate -Online STEM Teaching and Learning - Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Certificate Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) | Online TESOL K-12 Undergraduate Certificate Professional Development right arrow down arrow Teacher Resources Professional Development Resources License Renewal Courses FAQ Our Faculty and Staff Office of Educator Preparation right arrow down arrow Office of Field Experiences CAEP Accreditation Tk20 Professional Cohort Admissions Information Advancement & Transition Services right arrow down arrow About ATS Collaboration for Employment and Education Synergy Transition & Access Program Certificate IMPACT Innovation ATS News and Upcoming Events ATS Community Partners & Employment Giving Opportunities Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Community Volunteer Opportunities Research Opportunities Programs on Campus Scientific Research in Children's Literacy Lab Teacher Resources Teacher Awards Our Faculty and Staff UC BIPOC Teacher Pathway School of Criminal Justice right arrow down arrow Criminal Justice Career Expo right arrow down arrow Event Information Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Bachelors of Science in Paralegal Studies Minor- Criminal Justice Minor- Paralegal Studies Certificate- Forensic Populations Certificate- Foundations of Cybersecurity Certificate- Paralegal Studies Certificate - Correctional Rehabilitation Certificate- Crime and Intelligence Analysis Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Criminal Justice- Ph.D. Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate Analysis of Criminal Behavior Graduate Certificate Special Programs and Courses Undergraduate Research right arrow down arrow Application FAQ Testimonial Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Alpha Phi Sigma Criminal Justice Society Alumni right arrow down arrow Stay in Touch Contact Us Research right arrow down arrow Centers and Institutes Ph.D. Dissertations Our Faculty and Staff Summer Enrollment Courses School of Human Services right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Exercise Science Health Promotion and Education - Minor Public Health Public Health - Minor Sport Administration Sport Administration Minor Sport Coaching Certificate Sport Media and Promotion Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Online program Substance Abuse Prevention Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Certificate Violence Prevention in Families, Schools, & Community Certificate Yoga Studies Certificate Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Behavior Analysis Professional Certificate Online Counseling Graduate Programs School Psychology Graduate Programs Health Promotion and Education Graduate Programs Master of Science in Sport Administration Master of Education in Foundations in Behavior Analysis Student Resources Real World Connections Our Staff & Faculty Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow About the School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Information Technology Graduate Certificates Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program Course Descriptions Centers right arrow down arrow IT Solutions Center IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events right arrow down arrow 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students right arrow down arrow Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program right arrow down arrow Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo right arrow down arrow Senior Design Advisors News People right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community right arrow down arrow Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Programs and Degrees Future Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students right arrow down arrow Events right arrow down arrow Be Series Transfer and Transition Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Events Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Events Military and Veteran Students Scholarships & Funding Family & Parent Resources right arrow down arrow Future CECH Students Current CECH Students Virtual Map Tour Teachers and Guidance Counselor Resources right arrow down arrow Resources Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Services Center right arrow down arrow What is Advising Academic Policies Applications right arrow down arrow Readmission or change of College Change of Program within CECH Certificate or Minor Application Find Your CECH Academic Advisor right arrow down arrow CECH Student Services Staff Directory Gainful Employment Licensure Application Information Location Parent Resources Scholarships & Funding right arrow down arrow CECH Undergraduate Scholarships Student Resources Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Association (GSA) Study Abroad CECH right arrow down arrow Study Abroad Scholarship App More Info CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor CECH Scholarships & Recipients right arrow down arrow CECH Scholarship Donor Request Scholarship Application FAQS CECH Mentor & Volunteer Opportunities Alumni and Giving right arrow down arrow Alumni Engagement Contact Us Distinguished Alumni right arrow down arrow Past Distinguished Alumni Giving Opportunities right arrow down arrow Ways to Give right arrow down arrow Types of Gifts CECH Giving Priorities COVID-19 College Updates UC CECH » About CECH » Diversity, Equity & Inclusion » Summer of Social Justice Set Navigation title in component Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic Headlines Rankings College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships Action Research Center (ARC) What We Do Events Research and Publications ECAR Dissertations Who we are ECAR Faculty and Students Organizations & Partnerships Get Involved Join the ARC Listserv Join the ARC Advisory Committee Contact The ARC Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability Contact Us Visit Us Arlitt Staff Donate Early Childhood Education Arlitt Child Development Center Academic Programs & Opportunities for Students Research Recent Projects and Publications Opportunities for Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Data Resources Request a Report Publications Grad Publications Center for English as a Second Language ESL Placement Tests Oral English Proficiency Test for Visiting Scholars (OEPT-VS) Oral English Proficiency Test for International Teaching Assistants (OEPT-ITA) ESL English Placement Test (ESL ENPT) ESL Placement Guide ESL Placement for Graduate Students English Placement for Undergraduate Students ESL Courses Summer Courses Academic Year Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) Services Research Development Practice Outcomes Contact Staff Faculty Fellows Dr. Lori Brusman-Lovins Dr. Jennifer Hartman Dr. Alex Holsinger Dr. Debi Koetzle Dr. Shelley Listwan Dr. Brian Lovins Dr. Matthew Makarios Dr. AJ Myer Dr. Jennifer Pealer Dr. Kim Sperber Dr. Charlene Taylor Dr. Alex Piquero Dr. Jessica J. Warner Dr. Ronen Ziv Dr. Kevin Knight Dr. Jennifer L. Skeem Contractors Training Institutes Products Assessments E-Learning Fidelity Interventions Group Interventions Individual Interventions Evaluations Resources Partners News Back On Track CNVC Grant Epics- I Webinar CSG Partnership Publications COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center Services Selected Projects Evaluation in Practice: Assessing Improvement in STEM Education Testimonials Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science Contact ICS Team Upward Bound About Us Additional Resources Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Student Recruitment and Marketing Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean Summer of Social Justice UC's DAAP students helped paint the new Black Lives Matter mural in downtown Cincinnati. Photo Courtesy of Austin Neal @austinneal The CECH DEI Board echoes the comments shared by President Pinto and Dean Johnson around the recent racial injustices in this country. We, the members of the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Board, who have representation from the Dean's Office and each of our four schools – Education, Criminal Justice, Human Services, and Information Technology, would like to add that now more than ever, each one of us has a responsibility to prepare our students as the next generation of socially-just educators and administrators, legal and social advocates, sports and health leaders, counseling professionals, and providers of technology and digital communication. We also support all of our colleagues who are suffering the pain that this moment brings. We recognize that sadly, it is not the first. Over the summer, the board shared some resources/suggestions that will help guide your actions on what can be done as we all move through these moments of, Unrest-Protest-Progress. Read UC President Pinto's Statement Read Dean Johnson's Statement Summer of Social Justice The CECH Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Board presented a summer series of thought-provoking resources focused on spurring racial awareness, dialogue, and understanding. The time for change is now. It is our goal that these resources help us to move from the plight of unrest to a position of progress. “Change will not come if we wait for some other person, or if we wait for some other time. We are the ones we've been waiting for. We are the change that we seek.” ― Barack Obama University of Cincinnati's Call to Action from the Black Community! right arrow down arrow Official Call to Action for Racial Equity for the Black Community at the University of Cincinnati In response to the series of inexcusable tragedies that have occurred within the Black community across the nation, Camryn Morrow and a team of her fellow Student Government representatives were compelled to move beyond just support for the Black Lives Matter movement and into action. A letter was sent to the University’s Board of Trustees and other University executives with a call to action for enacting much-needed racial equity on campus, with an emphasis on justice for the Black community. The University of Cincinnati has historically failed to act in the interests of the Black community and has neglected to create and sustain an environment where Black scholars can lead a dynamic and edifying collegiate experience. No longer will we be silent about this. Within this letter, we list ten concrete demands of which we believe will begin to revolutionize our University into a place that is truly inclusive of all students. Please find the letter here. Here is a link to every resource for this cause. Pledge to Dismantle White Supremacy Within Ourselves and Our Institutions As people across the nation and world are rising up to demand an end to systemic racism, many at UC are wondering what we can do to end it right here in our own institution. As a way of organizing faculty and staff who recognize that it is beyond time for the dominant majority to hold ourselves accountable for enabling systemic racism at UC, Megan Lamkin developed the Pledge to Dismantle White Supremacy Within Ourselves and Our Institutions. Megan is an Assistant Professor (Educator) and Program Director for Undergraduate Research at the University of Cincinnati. The pledge was inspired by Layla F. Saad’s (2020) Me and White Supremacy: Combat Racism, Change the World and Become a Good Ancestor. The pledge will be revisited in 1 year, after which it will be revised and recirculated in order to deepen our commitment. While this pledge targets white faculty and staff, all colleagues are invited to participate. Using Your Platform As an academic institution, we have a platform to not only impact change, but to lead the way in educating ourselves, our students, and our community. The University of Cincinnati has great talent in its faculty and staff. Each of us has the power and influence to mitigate the harmful effects of racial injustice. One way to start is by creating courses aimed at educating students on racial inclusivity. If not a course, then course content. Find courses in your program where discussions on race and the importance of diversity, equity, and inclusion can be incorporated. At the very least, a simple step towards progress is to include a statement in every syllabus addressing diversity, equity, and inclusion. “Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.” ― Nelson Mandela Take Action Now more than ever, we need to come together and be united against injustice and racism. Many of you have reached out with kind words, thoughts, as well as questions about ways you can help make a positive change in this world. Here are a few thoughts: 1 - Lean into the discomfort 2 - Be okay with Civil Discourse 3 - Access your grief 4 - Educate yourself 5 - LISTEN. Ways you can make a difference! right arrow down arrow Give right arrow down arrow We all have something to give, whether it is money, time, or resources. Consider how you can best support a more racially-just society. “Philanthropy is about solving problems.” Naveen Jain Volunteer right arrow down arrow Join a Board or Organization Campaign Zero: a group dedicated to police reform and reducing violence through policy change. The Loveland Foundation: an organization focused on providing mental health support for black women and girls. Donate right arrow down arrow Criminal Justice Reform The NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund: a nonprofit that fights for racial justice through litigation, advocacy, and public education. The Bail Project: a revolving fund that helps low-income people pay bail. After a case closes and bail is returned, the same money can help someone else. Will you rush a $3 donation that will be split between two organizations—the Movement for Black Lives and National Bail Out—on the front lines in the struggle for racial justice? Innocence Project: an organization that works to exonerate the wrongfully accused and convicted through the use of DNA testing and seeks criminal justice reform. PETITION right arrow down arrow Create or sign a petition. Change.org Color of change VOTE right arrow down arrow Vote for leaders who support anti-racist practices. Vote Ohio CONTACT LEGISLATORS right arrow down arrow CONTACT LEGISLATORS Make a call, send an email, or write a letter Senators and Representatives The Ohio Legislature Governor Mike Dewine Supporting our Black Community right arrow down arrow #CincyBuyBlackThursdays Cincinnati Councilmember Jan-Michele Lemon Kearney and the Urban League of Greater Southwestern Ohio want you to support local black-owned businesses through the COVID-19 pandemic in an initiative called #CincyBuyBlackThursdays. Log onto these local African American websites to search for local Black owned businesses: City of Cincinnati Black Business Directory The Voice of Black Cincinnati The African American Chamber of Commerce business Directory Mortar Cincinnati Alumni Directory Blackout Cincinnati Initiative Cincinnati Black Pages/Global Black Pages Support Black Owned To quote content from Black Lives Matter, "Join the movement to fight for Freedom, Liberation, and Justice." Campaign for racial equality and social justice by becoming a crusader. Race-related Artistic Expressions Participate in designated mental health evidence-based/ informed program instructor training (Date and Location TBD) Disseminate mental health certification classes in communities Outreach to local community for course participants, as well as recruit and engage community partners Market program through press releases, social media and informational sessions Track each participant certified through pre and post evaluations Full-time AmeriCorps position - 1700 service hours – 40 hours per week, 5 holidays, 2.5 personal days To apply, please send resume to jgora@mhankyswoh.org Supporting our International Students right arrow down arrow On June 6, 2020, the Student and Exchange Visitor Program within the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement made changes to immigration policy that will potentially impact the international student community at the University of Cincinnati. Source The changes to immigration policy do not reflect our commitment to promote diversity within our university and to honor and support our international student community. Such changes may severely restrict the academic and research pursuits of valuable members of our student body. On behalf of the CECH Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Board, we stand behind our international students. As our mission statement reads: The College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services at the University of Cincinnati serves as a model of and resource for diversity that actively supports, empowers, prepares, respects, and celebrates all students, staff, faculty, and community members by advancing, sustaining and promoting diversity and inclusion in our personal reflections, intellectual pursuits, and professional development. International Students and Immigration Policy We would like to share the great news that the international student immigration policy has been rescinded! Read the New York Times article regarding International Student Policy Supporting our Trans Community right arrow down arrow Dear LGBTQ+ FSA Members & UC Community, The ongoing threat to trans people across the country has hit home especially hard this past week with the murder of Riah Milton. Amid several public health crises, the targeting of trans people, especially Black trans women, continues to devastate our communities. The LGBTQ+ Faculty & Staff Association board sends our love and condolences to the family of Ms. Milton and thoughts to anyone in our community who is affected by this latest attack. While there have been reports in local and national media that Ms. Milton was a former UC student, our Dean of Students, Dr. Juan Guardia has confirmed that there is no record of Ms. Milton attending our institution. This, however, does not change the fact that her murder has our community worried about the safety and protection of our trans members. As the board of the LGBTQ+ Faculty & Staff Association, we are writing this not just to share in our community’s concerns and to express solidarity, but to let you know about the protections and resources available to trans employees and students at UC. Title IX protects students against discrimination and harassment based on gender identity while UC Policy 11-01 “Affirmative Action & Equal Employment Opportunities” ensures similar protections for employees (furthermore, Title VII, as of last week, ensures federal employment protections based on gender identity). We also want to point you to our LGBTQ+ FSA page in Bearcats Landing, which contains a list of community resources, should you need them. As outlined in our bylaws, the LGBTQ+ Faculty & Staff Association works to “advocate, provide support opportunities, and create a safe and secure professional environment for LGBTQ faculty and staff at the University of Cincinnati.” If you have any concerns regarding the protection of our LGBTQ+ faculty and staff, please do not hesitate to contact us. We also would like to take this opportunity and encourage you to extend your support to your students, whether they identify as transgender/gender-nonconforming or not. The murder of Ms. Milton undoubtedly has many people concerned about the safety and support of our community. Sharing thoughts of solidarity as well as resources related to gender identity can go a long way. If you choose to do so, here are some campus and community resources you can include: Title IX (federal policy protecting students based on gender and gender identity) LGBTQ Center (UC’s main support for LGBTQ+ students; page includes list of campus resources) Equitas Trans Health (health care services designed for trans people) Transohio.org (advocacy and support network for trans people in Ohio) TheOkraProject.com (national organization providing homecooked meals to Black trans people) Especially for allies: Transgender terminology (GLAAD’s glossary of terms and best practices) We want to reiterate that an important part of our mission as an FSA is to support and advocate for our community. If you have suggestions as to how we can further this mission, please email us at uclgbtqfsa@uc.edu. Sincerely, University of Cincinnati LGBTQ+ Faculty & Staff Association Executive Board Supporting our LGBTQ+ Community right arrow down arrow A victory for the LGBTQ+ community! The Supreme Court ruled on Monday that a landmark civil rights law protects gay and transgender workers from workplace discrimination, handing the movement for L.G.B.T. equality a long-sought and unexpected victory. Workplace discrimination has been lawful in most of the country, until this law was recently passed. Supporters of L.G.B.T. rights were elated by the ruling, which they said was long overdue. “This is a simple and profound victory for L.G.B.T. civil rights,” said Suzanne B. Goldberg, a law professor at Columbia. “Many of us feared that the court was poised to gut sex discrimination protections and allow employers to discriminate based on sexual orientation and gender identity, yet it declined the federal government’s invitation to take that damaging path.” Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Events right arrow down arrow Cincinnati For Justice - Social Justice Events right arrow down arrow Cincinnati for Justice group is a forum where individuals can share information, rally support, and connect with those who want to help those in need. The group exists as a megaphone to amplify the voices of change in Cincinnati. We seek to bring justice to our city and spread the message that unity conquers hate. Events and Workshops: Vigil Against Police Violence - June 9 Daily Demonstration at Cincinnati Courthouse - June 12 Black Lives Matter: Clifton Protest - June 14 Cincinnati for Justice: Summer Series Systematic Racism - June 27 Mental Health & Incarceration - July 18 Healing Event - August 30 Join the Cincinnati for Change Facebook Group for a list of upcoming events. August 20 - December 7 OEOA Inclusive Excellence Workshops Fall 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Anti-Harassment/Non-Discrimination Seminar Level 1 (OEOA) Facilitators: Brandon Craig, Asst Dir, Office of Equal Opportunity & Access Tracey Johnson, Investigator, Equal Opportunity & Access August 20, 2020, 2:00-3:30, via WebEx September 2, 2020, 10:00-11:30, via WebEx October 12, 2020, 2:00-3:30, via WebEx November 19, 2020, 9:00-10:30, via WebEx December 9, 2020, 10:00-11:30, via WebEx Inclusion Advocacy in Support Of Equitable Hiring Processes (OEOA) Facilitators: Matthew Olovson. Executive Director, Office of Equal Opportunity & Access. Interim Executive Director, Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion / Title IX Coordinator September 8, 2020, 11:00-12:30, via WebEx October 15, 2020, 9:30-11:00, via WebEx November 13, 2020, 1:30-3:00, via WebEx December 7, 2020, 10:30-12:00, via WebEx WebEx Workshops If you require an accommodation or other assistance to participate in any of these workshops, please notify Huda Kebede at 556-5503 or Huda.Kebede@uc.edu. November 4 - Virtual Healthcare Workforce Diversity Symposium right arrow down arrow The student registration form for UC Career Education's first-ever FREE virtual Healthcare Workforce Diversity Symposium is open! This event is funded by a UC Urban Health Pathways grant. The free, online event takes place from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Wednesday, November 4, 2020. Link on the event page August 5 - 26 Standing in Solidarity: Can we talk? right arrow down arrow These sessions are designed to serve as a space for sharing; a conversation that allows members of the campus community to seek and offer support. Learn more about 'Standing in Solidarity: Can we Talk?' by reading our news post on Bearcats Landing. To register, click a session link below: August 5, 10:30 AM - 12 noon | 1.5 hours August 10, 3 PM - 5:30 | 1.5 hours August 19, 10:30 AM - 12 noon | 1.5 hours August 26, 3 PM - 5:30 | 1.5 hours Please contact Dy'an Marinos at dyan.marinos@uc.edu to request any assistance and/or accommodation you need to fully participate in this experience. Requests should be made within three business days of the session you would like to attend. July 27 - Fresh Food for All right arrow down arrow Monday, July 27th, 1:00 – 4:00 pm or while supplies last, Xavier University, 3800 Victory Parkway, Cincinnati (enter from Dana) Drive-thru distribution of 1,400 boxes of food from Farms to Families Questions? Call 513.672.3720 July 27 - August 21 Career Insights: Health Care Workforce Programs right arrow down arrow This fall, Queens Village is sponsoring black women to join urban league’s career insights health care program in partnership with Cincinnati Children’s. If you are interested in getting in health care and love caring for others, career insight is for you! Get started by registering for an upcoming SOAR training (SOAR training must be complete to participate in Career Insight): July 27-31, August 3-7, August 17-21 All SOAR Trainings are held virtually Monday-Friday, 10am-2pm Apply July 21 - August 12 - 2020 Blalock Lecture Series right arrow down arrow Blalock Lectures are an integral part of the ICPSR Summer Program in Quantitative Methods of Social Research. They are presented in the evening from 7:30 to 9 p.m. EDT outside of the regular curriculum. These lectures are all FREE to join and open to the public. Each lecture will be available via this Zoom link: 2020 Blalock Zoom Webinars. In addition, each lecture is recorded and will be available on the Summer Program YouTube channel in this playlist: 2020 Blalock Lecture Series Schedule: July 21: "Choices and Challenges in Pre-election Polling" - Scott Keeter, Pew Research Center July 22: "Research Developments in the Study of Racialized Resentment" - David Wilson, University of Delaware July 28: "The American National Election Study and Archived Data at ICPSR" - Vincent Hutchings, University of Michigan; David Thomas, University of Michigan July 29: "Citizen Forecasting: The Formation of Voter Expectations and Their Aggregate Accuracy" - Mary Stegmaier, University of Missouri July 30: "Preparing to Teach for the First (or Second) Time" - Lynette Hoelter, University of Michigan; Esther Wilder, Lehman College; Andrea Benjamin, University of Oklahoma August 4: "Statistical Models of Election Outcomes" - Andrew Gelman, Columbia University August 5: "Health Disparities across the Life Cycle" - DeAnnah Byrd, Wayne State University August 6: "Detroit Metropolitan Area Community Study and Archived Data at ICPSR" - Jeff Morenoff, University of Michigan August 11: "The Chitwan Valley Family Study and Archived Data at ICPSR" - Bill Axinn, University of Michigan; Lynette Hoelter, University of Michigan August 12: "Identity Development among Young Black Men" - Lloyd Talley, University of Michigan July 22-23 Digital Inclusion Day 2020 right arrow down arrow UC’s annual Digital Inclusion Day Conference will be held on July 22 (main day of events) and 23 (targeted “deep dive” tech sessions and training, as well as round table discussions). The event will be delivered using Microsoft Teams Live. You are welcome to register for one or both days. The Americans with Disabilities Act turns 30 on July 26, and this event will be both a training and learning day as well as a celebration of this important milestone. You can review this information and more on the Digital Inclusion Day website and this link will take you directly to Digital Inclusion Day Registration . June 25 & July 7 - Introduction to the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow The Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion would like to invite the UC community to participate in the workshop Introduction to Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion. This presentation will introduce the office formally known as Title IX. Participants will meet the staff, gain an understanding of the mission of the office, and receive a refresher on the university’s commitment to responding to harassment and/or discrimination. Participants will learn about resources available to them as an employee or student. Participants can register for this workshop through Faculty One Stop or by clicking each date above. Thursday June 25, 2020 2:00 pm - 3:00 pm & Tuesday July 7, 2020 10:00 am - 11:00 am If accommodations are needed please notify Alexa Justice, the Gender Equity & Inclusion Administrative Coordinator, at (513)556-3349 or title9@uc.edu in advance of the workshop. June 22-24 - Summer Institute on Education, Equity, and Justice right arrow down arrow The institute's workshops, conducted by experts in the field, focus on educational, legal, and health implications for young people of color. Sessions are designed to change both mindsets and practices. The overall goal of SIEEJ is to build a community of practice singularly focused on the strengths, challenges, and opportunities in the lives of young people of color and the communities in which they live. Register June 22 – June 24, online event This year's theme is Uplifting Women and Girls of Color Through Antiracist Pedagogy, Practice, and Policies. June 17th - Office of Equal Opportunity & Access Virtual EOC Retreat right arrow down arrow Wednesday, June 17th, 2020, 2:00 pm – 4:30 pm Virtual EOC Retreat Agenda at a Glance: 2pm – 2:10pm: Virtual EOC Retreat “Kickoff” 2:10pm – 3:10pm: Workshop 1: EEOC: Eliminating Barriers to Employment (Presenter: Brien Shoemaker, EEOC Outreach and Education Coordinator) 3:10pm – 3:20pm: BREAK 3:20pm - 4:20pm: Workshop 2: OFCCP: Moving Beyond Compliance (Presenter: Dustin Ward, OFCCP Compliance Officer) 4:20pm – 4:30 pm: Closing Register on Faculty One Stop: #061720 If you need accommodations or have questions, please email Huda.Kebede@uc.edu June 8th - Upcoming Workshops from Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact right arrow down arrow Upcoming workshops offered by the Division of Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact including a new offering, Self-Care in Self-Isolation: Equal Opportunity at UC: Anti-Harassment/Non-Discrimination workshop on June 8 June 5 - Advancement & Transition Services offering AIM Clinic for ages 11-14 right arrow down arrow Do you know a child who has difficulty responding to life's challenges? Struggle with stress or anxiety? Act out in response to changes in the environment or unwanted demands? If so, AIM could help! The University of Cincinnati's Advancement & Transition Services (ATS) is offering a 6-week AIM Clinic for children ages 11-14. AIM is a behavior analytic curriculum for social-emotional development in children. It blends best practice in behavior analysis, mindfulness and Acceptance and Commitment Therapy to teach practical solutions for meeting life’s challenges with flexible thinking. To sign up please complete a screening form by Friday, June 5, 2020. For More Information Info about UC's ATS Program June 3rd - Cincinnati Public School Studnets Speak Up and Speak out Series right arrow down arrow Starting Wednesday, June 3rd from 12:00 pm to 1:00 pm EDT, and weekly thereafter, CPS Colleagues and Partners we will be launching a weekly student discussion series as part of our student voice and empowerment in the call for change, the recognition of trauma, and the need to recreate the system in response to the long line of black men and women killed as a result of the color of their skin. To join, select from the following options: 1) Web Browser 2) Joining via a mobile device? Download the app if you don’t have it already, then enter event ID: rvehxjjw CPS' statement on the murder of George Floyd. Books Deconstructing White Privilege with Dr. Robin DiAngelo "White Fragility: Why It's So Hard for White People to Talk About Racism" I grew up in poverty. Here’s why I recognize my white privilege | Tom Rietz | TEDxDePaulUniversity Jimmy Kimmel explains what exactly White Privilege is. My descent into America's neo-Nazi movement & how I got out | Christian Picciolini | TEDxMileHigh Me and White Supremacy: Combat Racism, Change the World, and Become a good Ancestor by Layla F. Saad 97 Things White People Can Do For Racial Justice Seven Powerful Poems about Injustice and Racial Discrimination Music Spotlight on Dean Johnson’s Pick ‘Strange Fruit’: – How Black Artists defied U.S. Racism Got it Right and Paid the Price Other Music to Consider: Rise Up by Andra Day I Just Wanna Live by Keedron Bryant Freedom by Pharrell Williams This is America by Childish Gambino Movies Just Mercy Selma Queen and Slim The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks Loving Youtube Videos [EPISODE 1] Race in America: The Conversation [EPISODE 2] Race in America: The Conversation Systemic Racism Explained Colorism & Blackish Episode on Colorism Racial bias found in health care company algorithm & Racial Disparities in Healthcare are Pervasive 13th - Full Feature Film From Slave to Criminal with One Amendment is a 2016 American documentary by director Ava DuVernay - Full Feature Film From Slave to Criminal with One Amendment "Teach Us All" documentary explores education inequality Empathy: What is the best way to ease someone's pain and suffering? In this beautifully animated RSA Short, Dr. Brené Brown reminds us that we can only create a genuine empathic connection if we are brave enough to really get in touch with our own fragilities. Watch "We Want What You Want" - Black Lives Matter Mural Painting - Cincinnati, Ohio Resources Teaching and Learning Resource AACRC Newsletter EPS Newsletter Changing Times Newsletter UC Renames Baseball Stadium Anti-Racist Resources from Greater Good NAEYC Resources Early Childhood Education Race and Anti-Bias Teaching Equity Resources Resources on Race and Ethnicity Resources on Teaching and Learning Race and Racism Recommendations for Everyone Strawberry Mansion Abolitionist Teaching and the Future of Our Schools How America's public schools keep kids in poverty | Kandice Sumner A Tale of Two Teachers | Melissa Crum | TEDxColumbusWomen Further Education Racism and its Connection to our Education System right arrow down arrow Civil Rights Data Collection Quick Statistics 49.7 percent of public school students are students of color: 24.7 percent Hispanic or Latino of any race, 15.5 percent black or African-American, 4.8 percent Asian, 3.1 percent two or more races. Black preschoolers are 3.6 times more likely to be suspended than white preschoolers. 51 percent of high schools with high black and Latino enrollment also have assigned police officers. Black students are 2.3 times more likely than white students to be referred to law enforcement or arrested as a result of a school incident. Fewer than 3 percent of English Language Learners (ELLs) are in gifted programs, though they make up 11 percent of students at the schools that offer those programs. Black and Latino students make up 38 percent of those enrolled at schools that offer AP courses — but less than a third of students taking AP courses. Similar disparities were found in advanced math and science courses like chemistry, physics, algebra II and calculus. In schools with high black and Latino enrollment, 10 percent of teachers were in their first year, compared with 5 percent in largely white schools. Summer Course: Latin America Pop Culture (SPAN 1070) right arrow down arrow You can find it on Catalyst when you look for SPAN 1070 LA POP CULTURE. You will study contemporary cultural expressions and practices from Latin America such as music (reguetton), sports (fútbol), television (Narcos series), street art (Graffiti), and street food. It is completely taught in English! Anyone can take it. It has no pre-requisites. This is a World Culture course that suits the SCE requirement of BoKs (Breath of knowledge) that you need for your bachelor’s degree. It will be offered on-line during the second part of the summer semester. It is a 3-credit course that will be taught for 5 weeks (July 6th – August 8th) For more information about this course, contact Dr. Andrea Beaudoin-Valenzuela at beaudoaa@mail.uc.edu Race Awareness Training – Doing Some Work on Ourselves right arrow down arrow This week’s resources focus on taking a look at our own biases and challenging ourselves through training and becoming more cognizant of social justice issues. Project Implicit – Test your biases Southern Poverty Law Center 21-day Racial Habit Building Challenge White Men: Time to Discover Your Cultural Blind Spots | Michael Welp | TEDxBend Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top