Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services CECH right arrow down arrow About CECH right arrow down arrow Headlines Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening right arrow down arrow CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships right arrow down arrow Action Research Center (ARC) right arrow down arrow What We Do Who we are Get Involved Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability right arrow down arrow Contact Us Donate Early Childhood Education Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) right arrow down arrow About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Publications Center for English as a Second Language right arrow down arrow ESL Placement Tests ESL Placement Guide ESL Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) right arrow down arrow Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture right arrow down arrow About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) right arrow down arrow Services Contact Training Institutes Products Resources COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center right arrow down arrow Services Selected Projects Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science right arrow down arrow Contact ICS Team Upward Bound right arrow down arrow About Us Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity right arrow down arrow Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative right arrow down arrow Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support right arrow down arrow Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources right arrow down arrow Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Student Recruitment and Marketing right arrow down arrow Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo right arrow down arrow Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean Academic Schools right arrow down arrow School of Education right arrow down arrow About the School of Education right arrow down arrow Research Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Early Childhood Education Online- Associates Early Childhood Education and Development- Minor Early Childhood Education- Online (Birth-Age 5) Early Childhood Education (Preschool- Grade 5) Human Development and Community Engagement Middle Childhood Education Secondary Education Special Education CDA Professional Development Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Curriculum and Instruction- Online Curriculum and Instruction - Onsite Educational Studies Educational Studies Ph.D. Educational Leadership- Online Instructional Design and Technology Literacy and Second Language Studies -Online Special Education- Online Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) - Online Urban Educational Leadership, EdD Forms Certificates and Endorsements right arrow down arrow Autism Spectrum Disorders - Online Blended and Online Learning and Teaching (BOLT) Certificate | Online Deaf Studies Endorsement- Early Childhood Generalist Endorsement Education for Environmental Sustainability Digital Learning Design Gifted Education Endorsement & Certificate Higher Education Leadership Certificate | Onsite Jewish Education Certificate | Onsite Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) -Online Middle Childhood Generalist Endorsement Postsecondary Literacy Instruction Certificate - Online Endorsement- PreK-12 Reading Instruction Certificate Special Education Leadership Certificate -Online STEM Teaching and Learning - Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Certificate Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) | Online TESOL K-12 Undergraduate Certificate Professional Development right arrow down arrow Teacher Resources Professional Development Resources License Renewal Courses FAQ Our Faculty and Staff Office of Educator Preparation right arrow down arrow Office of Field Experiences CAEP Accreditation Tk20 Professional Cohort Admissions Information Advancement & Transition Services right arrow down arrow About ATS Collaboration for Employment and Education Synergy Transition & Access Program Certificate IMPACT Innovation ATS News and Upcoming Events ATS Community Partners & Employment Giving Opportunities Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Community Volunteer Opportunities Research Opportunities Programs on Campus Scientific Research in Children's Literacy Lab Teacher Resources Teacher Awards Our Faculty and Staff UC BIPOC Teacher Pathway School of Criminal Justice right arrow down arrow Criminal Justice Career Expo right arrow down arrow Event Information Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Bachelors of Science in Paralegal Studies Minor- Criminal Justice Minor- Paralegal Studies Certificate- Forensic Populations Certificate- Foundations of Cybersecurity Certificate- Paralegal Studies Certificate - Correctional Rehabilitation Certificate- Crime and Intelligence Analysis Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Criminal Justice- Ph.D. Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate Analysis of Criminal Behavior Graduate Certificate Special Programs and Courses Undergraduate Research right arrow down arrow Application FAQ Testimonial Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Alpha Phi Sigma Criminal Justice Society Alumni right arrow down arrow Stay in Touch Contact Us Research right arrow down arrow Centers and Institutes Ph.D. Dissertations Our Faculty and Staff Summer Enrollment Courses School of Human Services right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Exercise Science Health Promotion and Education - Minor Public Health Public Health - Minor Sport Administration Sport Administration Minor Sport Coaching Certificate Sport Media and Promotion Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Online program Substance Abuse Prevention Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Certificate Violence Prevention in Families, Schools, & Community Certificate Yoga Studies Certificate Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Behavior Analysis Professional Certificate Online Counseling Graduate Programs School Psychology Graduate Programs Health Promotion and Education Graduate Programs Master of Science in Sport Administration Master of Education in Foundations in Behavior Analysis Student Resources Real World Connections Our Staff & Faculty Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow About the School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Information Technology Graduate Certificates Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program Course Descriptions Centers right arrow down arrow IT Solutions Center IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events right arrow down arrow 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students right arrow down arrow Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program right arrow down arrow Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo right arrow down arrow Senior Design Advisors News People right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community right arrow down arrow Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Programs and Degrees Future Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students right arrow down arrow Events right arrow down arrow Be Series Transfer and Transition Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Events Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Events Military and Veteran Students Scholarships & Funding Family & Parent Resources right arrow down arrow Future CECH Students Current CECH Students Virtual Map Tour Teachers and Guidance Counselor Resources right arrow down arrow Resources Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Services Center right arrow down arrow What is Advising Academic Policies Applications right arrow down arrow Readmission or change of College Change of Program within CECH Certificate or Minor Application Find Your CECH Academic Advisor right arrow down arrow CECH Student Services Staff Directory Gainful Employment Licensure Application Information Location Parent Resources Scholarships & Funding right arrow down arrow CECH Undergraduate Scholarships Student Resources Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Association (GSA) Study Abroad CECH right arrow down arrow Study Abroad Scholarship App More Info CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor CECH Scholarships & Recipients right arrow down arrow CECH Scholarship Donor Request Scholarship Application FAQS CECH Mentor & Volunteer Opportunities Alumni and Giving right arrow down arrow Alumni Engagement Contact Us Distinguished Alumni right arrow down arrow Past Distinguished Alumni Giving Opportunities right arrow down arrow Ways to Give right arrow down arrow Types of Gifts CECH Giving Priorities COVID-19 College Updates UC CECH » Academic Schools » School of Information Technology » Graduate Programs » Graduate Application FAQ Set Navigation title in component Graduate Programs Information Technology Graduate Certificates Program Requirements & Application Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Program Requirements & Application Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Program and Application Requirements Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program MSIT 4+1 Pathway Declaration Form About the School of Information Technology SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline IT Discipline Tool-Kit Request Form Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Program and Application Requirements - Onsite Program and Application Requirements - Online Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Program Requirements & Application - Onsite Program Requirements & Application - Online Information Technology : Networking/Systems Information Technology : Game Development & Simulation Information Technology : Data Technologies Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Program Requirements & Application Course Descriptions Centers IT Solutions Center Technical Products and Services Talent IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Research Areas Current Students Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education CyberCorps® Scholarship for Service CAE-C Education Innovation Grant CAE-C in Cybersecurity Faculty Training Program GenCyber Cybersecurity Graduate Certificate Scholarship Opportunity Current Students Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Summer Camp FAQ Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Application Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo Senior Design Advisors News People Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Graduate Application FAQ General Thank you for your interest in applying to one of the graduate programs in the School of Information Technology. Each application is evaluated independently and holistically to identify potential students to join our programs. In general, we are looking for students who can enrich our discipline through their demonstrated commitment to learning, hard work, and alignment to our School’s mission. We also evaluate how the program fits with applicants’ personal and career goals. Each component of the application is reviewed carefully. The application is your way of making your case to our program and we recommend giving your best to each component of the application. Have a question about the application process? We recommend reviewing the Graduate School’s Application Process FAQ. Can I receive an application fee waiver? right arrow down arrow Application fee waivers are not available, with the following exception: Three programs are granted application fee waivers by the Graduate School: McNair Scholars State of Ohio STARS Scholars GEM Scholars To indicate your participation in one of these programs, check the appropriate button and add your advisor's name when completing the online application, then email documentation to Matt Guido at guidowm@ucmail.uc.edu. I submitted my application. When will I receive an admissions decision? right arrow down arrow Applications for the post-baccalaureate certificate and MS Information Technology programs are typically processed within two weeks. Applications for the PhD Information Technology program are processed in the Spring semester. Admission decisions are typically sent by March 1. You may be contacted for an interview before receiving a decision. Why was my application denied? right arrow down arrow The admissions committee conducts a holistic review of applications to determine an admissions decision. Please review this FAQ for guidance on how to prepare a strong application. I have questions about my application. Who should I contact? right arrow down arrow For any questions about the application process or program requirements, please contact Lauren Kirgis at kirgisle@ucmail.uc.edu. For questions about professional development or courses, please contact Program Director, Dr. Jess Kropczynski at kropczjn@ucmail.uc.edu. Please note that we are not able to provide information about admissions decisions beyond this FAQ. What should I write in the personal statement? right arrow down arrow The personal statement is your opportunity to share why the graduate program you are seeking is best positioned to help you achieve your personal and career goals. While we do not have specific requirements, we are looking for a concise reflection on your career journey so far and how the program will contribute to your journey. We are looking for demonstrated understanding of the discipline, reflection on commitment to learning, summary of past experiences, and a reflection on how you plan to pivot your career after obtaining the degree. Please note that past IT experience is not required but it is encouraged. Who should I approach to write me a recommendation letter? right arrow down arrow Recommendation letters are our window into how people who have worked with you in the past assess your commitment to learning, your work ethic, your career journey, and how you view the program you are applying for. We are looking for recommendation letters from people who know you best and who are familiar with the discipline and profession. You should find individuals who can provide objective assessment of your strength and areas for improvement and who can comment on why the program will be an addition to you, such as faculty members, professionals, and others who interacted with you. Recommendation letters need to be formal and comprehensive. Recommendation letters from peers are generally considered weak. How do I apply for funding? right arrow down arrow Funding Opportunities: There are three opportunities available to graduate students in the SoIT: Graduate Incentive Awards: These merit-based scholarships cover part of student tuition. Several levels of merit-based scholarships are awarded every year. All students who apply for admission by the March 1 priority deadline and are admitted to the program will be automatically considered for these merit-based scholarships and notified by April 1. Applications are reviewed holistically for consideration for the merit-based scholarships. Some of the factors that could enhance the application’s merit include the strength of the statement of purpose, evidence of academic strength, and evidence of skills and abilities in the discipline. Teaching Assistantships: Teaching assistantships (TAs) include a monthly stipend and tuition coverage for the academic year (Fall and Spring semesters). Students receiving teaching assistantships are expected to work for 20 hours per week assisting with teaching and learning. Several TAs are awarded each year to new and returning students. Returning students are only awarded TAs if they have a full year remaining. An email is sent out to all students in the Spring of each year inviting them to apply for the teaching assistantships. New students are encouraged to apply by the priority deadline to ensure that they receive the invitation to apply. Some of the factors that could enhance candidacy for teaching assistantship include evidence of academic strength in the subjects covered in the undergraduate programs, evidence of prior teaching assistant experience, industry certifications related to subjects covered in the undergraduate programs, and evidence of strong communication skills Research Assistantships: Research assistantships (RAs) include a monthly stipend and tuition coverage for the academic year (Fall and Spring semesters). RAs are funded by the various research centers and grants at the School and are offered directly by the faculty member or research centers. Students receiving RAs are expected to work for 20 hours per week fulfilling the duties of the RA that they are offered. When opportunities are available, an email is sent out to all students. New students are encouraged to apply by the priority deadline to ensure that they receive the invitation to apply. Each RA may have its own requirements, but could include evidence of academic strength, evidence of strong work ethics, evidence of high level of skills in IT related areas, evidence of successful contribution to projects, or evidence of commitment to learning and hard work. MSIT On-Campus: Full time on-campus students are considered for the Graduate Incentive Awards, Teaching Assistantships, and Research Assistantships. MSIT Online: Full time online students may be eligible to the TAs and RAs and will receive the email invitations to apply. The students must be able to work for the 20 hours per week and thus students who are employed full time will not be eligible. Limited number of Graduate Incentive Awards may be available to full time online students who are residents in the US. SoIT has scholarships available for graduates from the Bachelor of Science in Information Technology program at the University of Cincinnati. Alumni will automatically be reviewed for these awards and receive notification of offers via email. All financial aid is based on annual availability. PhD All students admitted to the full-time PhD program receive a Teaching Assistantship or Research Assistantship. Students admitted to the part-time PhD program are required to show evidence of funding through their employer, or self-funding, that would enable them to complete the program. A limited number of Graduate Incentive Awards may be available to part-time PhD students. What is the difference between undergraduate and graduate studies? What would I learn differently? right arrow down arrow The School of Information Technology identifies three main pillars for success: Hands-on Skills, Problem Solving, and Communication. Information Technology started as a practitioner-based discipline. For the practice and research realms, the nature of these skills and its levels of complexities evolves from undergraduate to graduate studies as shown in figure 1. Figure 1 At the undergraduate level, the focus is to acquire the skills needed for the practice. This includes technical skills, problem solving and presentation and professional writing skills. As the student progresses through graduate programs, the nature of the skills shifts from the practice to the research introducing scientific method for research, academic writing, peer-review, and tools for research methods. The Master’s program still introduces practice-related skills, especially in the project-based track while introducing the students to foundations of research and academics. MSIT My undergraduate GPA is below a 3.0. Can I apply? right arrow down arrow Please review the program admission requirements. We will consider applicants with undergraduate GPAs below a 3.0 who demonstrate potential. Please see the tips on strengthening your application. My undergraduate degree is in a discipline unrelated to the computing field. Can I still apply? right arrow down arrow Yes, you can apply if you do not have a background in IT. You should be able to demonstrate an understanding of the field of Information Technology in your application, however. If admitted, you may be required to take additional prerequisite coursework to prepare you for the program. Admitted students should check their offer letter to determine which, if any, prerequisite bridge courses are required. Please review the tips on strengthening your application. Tips to strengthen your application: right arrow down arrow If you are concerned about a low undergraduate GPA or lack of a background in Information Technology, you may wish to consider the following suggestions to strengthen your application. It is important to have an understanding of the field of Information Technology. Utilize online resources to learn about the field and gain a basic knowledge of skills, such as networking, computer programming, databases management systems, web applications, cybersecurity, applied machine learning, etc. Discuss what you’ve learned. Familiarize yourself with trends in the field. While not required, you may consider taking the GRE to demonstrate strong quantitative & critical thinking skills. Discuss why your undergraduate GPA was low and what would be different in your graduate program. Discuss why you are interested in the MS Information Technology and what you have done to determine it is the right field for you (i.e. informational interviews, etc). Complete the optional video essay. PhD Why should I pursue a PhD study? right arrow down arrow If you are curious about knowledge and interested in exploring the boundaries of our current understanding and eager to discover new areas or answer questions that have not been answered yet, a PhD program is for you. Figure 2 is an outline of the discovery process exemplified in the PhD program. Figure 2 Information Technology is a critical discipline for our society and the society needs people like you to be equipped with the knowledge, skills, and abilities What are the admission requirements? right arrow down arrow Please refer to the admission requirements. Is prior research experience required? right arrow down arrow Yes, to enroll directly to the PhD program, you need to show evidence of some understanding and experience in research. Research in information technology and academic publications in peer-reviewed forums are considered a plus. Undergraduate students looking towards a PhD should consider undergraduate research experiences during their undergraduate programs. Students in a Master’s program should complete a thesis track and consider publishing their work in peer-reviewed forums. What if I do not have prior research experience? right arrow down arrow We recommend applying for the Master’s program and completing a thesis track first. This will help us assess the commitment to research required for the PhD program. I am asked to write a recommendation letter to your program. What are you looking for? right arrow down arrow We are looking for formal recommendation letters that reflects assessment of the applicant’s disposition, commitment to learning, past practical or research experience, and clarity of their career goals. For example, the following areas helps us assess the applicants: How long and in what capacity have you known the applicant. Comment on the applicant’s intellectual ability, knowledge of the field, work habits, ability to analyze problems and formulate solutions, motivation to pursue doctorate program, seriousness of purpose, potential for future contribution, emotional maturity, enthusiasm, leadership qualities, resourcefulness and initiatives. Comment on the applicant’s outstanding abilities and talents Comment on the applicant’s areas for improvement Comment on the applicant’s abilities in their area of specialization. For example, technical knowledge, analytical ability, attention to detail, creativity, imaginative problem-solving, etc. What you think motivates the applicant to apply for a doctorate program. Where can I find a list of faculty advisors? right arrow down arrow The School of Information Technology is proud of its unique mix of faculty that includes educators, practitioners, and researchers. All faculty in the SoIT supports students and candidates through mentorship and support as needed. A doctoral advisor must be among the faculty researchers. Hazem Said, PhD Chengcheng Li, PhD Shane Halse, PhD Nelly Elsayed, PhD Bilal Gonen, PhD Kijung Lee, PhD Jess Kropczynski, PhD Murat Ozer, PhD Annu Prabhakar, PhD Zag Elsayed, PhD Tips to strengthen your application: right arrow down arrow Familiarize yourself with the School of Information Technology graduate faculty. Review their areas of research and publications. Some resources you may choose to utilize include Google Scholar and ResearchGate. Demonstrate a strong understanding of academic research. Share your research experience, publications, and potential directions for your research in your doctoral program. Please avoid using “buzzwords” to describe research ideas. Instead review relevant literature and discuss topics of interest. While not required, you may consider taking the GRE to demonstrate strength in verbal reasoning, critical thinking, and analytical writing skills. Select carefully for your recommendation letters. Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top