Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services CECH right arrow down arrow About CECH right arrow down arrow Headlines Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening right arrow down arrow CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships right arrow down arrow Action Research Center (ARC) right arrow down arrow What We Do Who we are Get Involved Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability right arrow down arrow Contact Us Donate Early Childhood Education Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) right arrow down arrow About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Publications Center for English as a Second Language right arrow down arrow ESL Placement Tests ESL Placement Guide ESL Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) right arrow down arrow Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture right arrow down arrow About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) right arrow down arrow Services Contact Training Institutes Products Resources COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center right arrow down arrow Services Selected Projects Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science right arrow down arrow Contact ICS Team Upward Bound right arrow down arrow About Us Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity right arrow down arrow Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative right arrow down arrow Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support right arrow down arrow Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources right arrow down arrow Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Student Recruitment and Marketing right arrow down arrow Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo right arrow down arrow Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean Academic Schools right arrow down arrow School of Education right arrow down arrow About the School of Education right arrow down arrow Research Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Early Childhood Education Online- Associates Early Childhood Education and Development- Minor Early Childhood Education- Online (Birth-Age 5) Early Childhood Education (Preschool- Grade 5) Human Development and Community Engagement Middle Childhood Education Secondary Education Special Education CDA Professional Development Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Curriculum and Instruction- Online Curriculum and Instruction - Onsite Educational Studies Educational Studies Ph.D. Educational Leadership- Online Instructional Design and Technology Literacy and Second Language Studies -Online Special Education- Online Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) - Online Urban Educational Leadership, EdD Forms Certificates and Endorsements right arrow down arrow Autism Spectrum Disorders - Online Blended and Online Learning and Teaching (BOLT) Certificate | Online Deaf Studies Endorsement- Early Childhood Generalist Endorsement Education for Environmental Sustainability Digital Learning Design Gifted Education Endorsement & Certificate Higher Education Leadership Certificate | Onsite Jewish Education Certificate | Onsite Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) -Online Middle Childhood Generalist Endorsement Postsecondary Literacy Instruction Certificate - Online Endorsement- PreK-12 Reading Instruction Certificate Special Education Leadership Certificate -Online STEM Teaching and Learning - Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Certificate Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) | Online TESOL K-12 Undergraduate Certificate Professional Development right arrow down arrow Teacher Resources Professional Development Resources License Renewal Courses FAQ Our Faculty and Staff Office of Educator Preparation right arrow down arrow Office of Field Experiences CAEP Accreditation Tk20 Professional Cohort Admissions Information Advancement & Transition Services right arrow down arrow About ATS Collaboration for Employment and Education Synergy Transition & Access Program Certificate IMPACT Innovation ATS News and Upcoming Events ATS Community Partners & Employment Giving Opportunities Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Community Volunteer Opportunities Research Opportunities Programs on Campus Scientific Research in Children's Literacy Lab Teacher Resources Teacher Awards Our Faculty and Staff UC BIPOC Teacher Pathway School of Criminal Justice right arrow down arrow Criminal Justice Career Expo right arrow down arrow Event Information Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Bachelors of Science in Paralegal Studies Minor- Criminal Justice Minor- Paralegal Studies Certificate- Forensic Populations Certificate- Foundations of Cybersecurity Certificate- Paralegal Studies Certificate - Correctional Rehabilitation Certificate- Crime and Intelligence Analysis Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Criminal Justice- Ph.D. Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate Analysis of Criminal Behavior Graduate Certificate Special Programs and Courses Undergraduate Research right arrow down arrow Application FAQ Testimonial Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Alpha Phi Sigma Criminal Justice Society Alumni right arrow down arrow Stay in Touch Contact Us Research right arrow down arrow Centers and Institutes Ph.D. Dissertations Our Faculty and Staff Summer Enrollment Courses School of Human Services right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Exercise Science Health Promotion and Education - Minor Public Health Public Health - Minor Sport Administration Sport Administration Minor Sport Coaching Certificate Sport Media and Promotion Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Online program Substance Abuse Prevention Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Certificate Violence Prevention in Families, Schools, & Community Certificate Yoga Studies Certificate Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Behavior Analysis Professional Certificate Online Counseling Graduate Programs School Psychology Graduate Programs Health Promotion and Education Graduate Programs Master of Science in Sport Administration Master of Education in Foundations in Behavior Analysis Student Resources Real World Connections Our Staff & Faculty Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow About the School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Information Technology Graduate Certificates Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program Course Descriptions Centers right arrow down arrow IT Solutions Center IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events right arrow down arrow 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students right arrow down arrow Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program right arrow down arrow Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo right arrow down arrow Senior Design Advisors News People right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community right arrow down arrow Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Programs and Degrees Future Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students right arrow down arrow Events right arrow down arrow Be Series Transfer and Transition Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Events Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Events Military and Veteran Students Scholarships & Funding Family & Parent Resources right arrow down arrow Future CECH Students Current CECH Students Virtual Map Tour Teachers and Guidance Counselor Resources right arrow down arrow Resources Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Services Center right arrow down arrow What is Advising Academic Policies Applications right arrow down arrow Readmission or change of College Change of Program within CECH Certificate or Minor Application Find Your CECH Academic Advisor right arrow down arrow CECH Student Services Staff Directory Gainful Employment Licensure Application Information Location Parent Resources Scholarships & Funding right arrow down arrow CECH Undergraduate Scholarships Student Resources Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Association (GSA) Study Abroad CECH right arrow down arrow Study Abroad Scholarship App More Info CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor CECH Scholarships & Recipients right arrow down arrow CECH Scholarship Donor Request Scholarship Application FAQS CECH Mentor & Volunteer Opportunities Alumni and Giving right arrow down arrow Alumni Engagement Contact Us Distinguished Alumni right arrow down arrow Past Distinguished Alumni Giving Opportunities right arrow down arrow Ways to Give right arrow down arrow Types of Gifts CECH Giving Priorities COVID-19 College Updates UC CECH » About CECH » Centers and Partnerships » Center for English as a Second Language » ESL Courses » Academic Year Courses Set Navigation title in component Center for English as a Second Language ESL Placement Tests Oral English Proficiency Test for Visiting Scholars (OEPT-VS) Oral English Proficiency Test for International Teaching Assistants (OEPT-ITA) ESL English Placement Test (ESL ENPT) ESL Placement Guide ESL Placement for Graduate Students English Placement for Undergraduate Students ESL Courses Summer Courses Academic Year Courses ESL Instructors Action Research Center (ARC) What We Do Events Research and Publications ECAR Dissertations Who we are ECAR Faculty and Students Organizations & Partnerships Get Involved Join the ARC Listserv Join the ARC Advisory Committee Contact The ARC Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability Contact Us Visit Us Arlitt Staff Donate Early Childhood Education Arlitt Child Development Center Academic Programs & Opportunities for Students Research Recent Projects and Publications Opportunities for Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Data Resources Request a Report Publications Grad Publications Center for International Education and Research (CIER) Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) Services Research Development Practice Outcomes Contact Staff Faculty Fellows Dr. Lori Brusman-Lovins Dr. Jennifer Hartman Dr. Alex Holsinger Dr. Debi Koetzle Dr. Shelley Listwan Dr. Brian Lovins Dr. Matthew Makarios Dr. AJ Myer Dr. Jennifer Pealer Dr. Kim Sperber Dr. Charlene Taylor Dr. Alex Piquero Dr. Jessica J. Warner Dr. Ronen Ziv Dr. Kevin Knight Dr. Jennifer L. Skeem Contractors Training Institutes Products Assessments E-Learning Fidelity Interventions Group Interventions Individual Interventions Evaluations Resources Partners News Back On Track CNVC Grant Epics- I Webinar CSG Partnership Publications COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center Services Selected Projects Evaluation in Practice: Assessing Improvement in STEM Education Testimonials Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science Contact ICS Team Upward Bound About Us Additional Resources Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) Projects & Services Team & Partners Academic Year Courses English Courses for International Students The Center for ESL offers sequential courses on the undergraduate and graduate levels in both reading/writing and speaking/listening, as well as other stand-alone courses. The courses are subject to availability, as not all courses are offered every semester. Please visit One Stop to see the specific courses offered in the given semester and to register online. Please note that some courses have prerequisites, and you will not be able to register for those courses until the prerequisites have been met. Reading and Writing Courses Speaking and Listening Courses Other courses Reading and Writing Courses- Undergraduate Level Courses Reading and writing courses emphasize the reading-writing connection and are designed to gradually prepare students for college academic writing, from basic writing genres such as summary, narration, and description, to advanced genres including rhetorical analysis, synthesis, and research report. ESL1068 Foundations of Academic Reading and Writing for ESL right arrow down arrow This course is designed familiarize international students with the basic genres of academic writing at the university level. At the end of the course, students will be able to apply vocabulary and grammatical structures to summarizing, describing, making comparison and contrast, and expressing opinions. Placement into the course will be determined by TOEFL, IELTS, or Writing Placement Test score. ESL1069 Success in Undergraduate Academic Writing (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to support international students to become competent in academic reading and writing in the style commonly accepted in American universities. At the end of the course, students will be able to summarize various texts, identify and respond to problems, analyze texts, and make strong arguments. Placement into the course will be determined by TOEFL, IELTS, or Writing Placement Test score. ESL1070 Intro to English Comp for International Students (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to develop international students’ skills in critical reading and thinking strategies, textual analysis, and rhetorical awareness during the composing process. At the end of the course, students will be able to summarize, analyze, and synthesize texts and problems. This course is equivalent to 15ENGL1000. Placement into the course will be determined by TOEFL, IELTS, or Writing Placement Test score. ESL1080 English Composition for International Students (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to strengthen international students’ competency in critical reading, writing, and textual analysis with particular focus on argument and research-based writing. At the end of the course, students will be able to employ a variety of modes of discourse to effectively summarize, critically analyze, and selectively implement texts to support their argument-making and research-presenting. This course is the equivalent of 15ENGL1001. Placement into the course will be determined by TOEFL, IELTS, or Writing Placement Test score. ESL2089 Intermediate Composition for International Students (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed for international students to integrate critical reading and writing, rhetorical understanding of language, and advanced research and argument skills in designing, conducting, and composing research projects. At the end of the course, students will develop a better understanding of data-based research writing process through first-hand experience. This course is specifically for non-native writers of English and is equivalent to 15 ENGL2089. Graduate Level Courses ESL7068 Foundations of Academic Reading and Writing for ESL (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to familiarize international students with the basic genres of academic writing across the disciplines. At the end of the course, students will be able to apply vocabulary and grammatical structures to summarizing, describing, making comparison and contrast, and expressing opinions. Placement into the course will be determined by TOEFL, IELTS, or Writing Placement Test score. ESL7069 Success in Graduate Academic Writing (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to familiarize international students with writing genres commonly required at the graduate level. Skills in critical reading and thinking strategies, rhetorical awareness, and textual analysis will be emphasized. At the end of the course, students will be able to employing a variety of modes of discourse to analyze, summarize, and synthesize texts and respond to problems. Placement into the course will be determined by TOEFL, IELTS, or Writing Placement Test score. ESL7070 Research Writing for International Students (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to assist international graduate students to recognize, analyze, and utilize academic criticism practices in discipline-specific research articles. Focusing on the pragmatics of conducting, evaluating, and reporting research projects, this course will support students in their research writing process. Oral Communication Courses Oral communication courses prepare students to deliver effective presentations in both academic and professional settings while familiarizing them with content knowledge in various topics. Students will develop oral proficiency as well as presentation skills through practices from basic skills as note-taking to advanced skills as discourse analysis and application. ESL1071 | 7071 Basic Oral Communication (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to assist non-native English speaking students to develop their conversational English fluency. It focuses primarily on perfecting the vocabulary and fluency necessary to execute speech acts that are basic to everyday conversation and also touches on intonation, emphasis, and reductions. Placement into the course will be determined by TOEFL, IELTS or Oral English Proficiency Test (OEPT) score. ESL1072 | 7072 Foundations of Academic Oral Communication (3cr) right arrow down arrow The goals of this course are to increase oral fluency and to improve listening comprehension in both academic and everyday conversation. Students will work on improving their recognition and use of idiomatic English while participating in class discussions, as well as to express opinions, debate, and negotiate conversation. Content information will be provided through lecture, readings, discussion, role-play, interviews and observations for the purpose of learning oral communication skills that include both speaking and listening. Placement into the course will be determined by TOEFL, IELTS, or CESL Placement Test score. ESL1073 | 7073 Success in Academic Oral Communication (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to assist students to achieve intermediate academic communication skills. Students will broaden their academic vocabulary through the exploration of collocations and idioms. Students will enhance critical thinking skills through negotiation, expression of opinions and speech persuasion. Placement into the course will be determined by TOEFL, IELTS, or Oral English Proficiency Test (OEPT) score. ESL1074 | 7074 Oral Presentation Skills (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to strengthen students’ academic presentation skills necessary for presenting in academic seminars or professional meetings. Students will learn techniques for audience analysis, selection and organization of materials, developing and supporting arguments, dealing with questions, and effective oral delivery. Several videotaped oral presentations are required. ESL1075 | 7075 Improving Pronunciation for ESL (3cr) right arrow down arrow Improving Pronunciation is a classroom-based course that focuses on comprehensible articulation of vowels and consonants as well as the rhythm, stress and intonation of North American English speech. This course should be taken by students who are already fluent in English, but who want to improve their pronunciation skills for more effective communication through practice activities that include speech/sound analysis, dialogue generation, role-play, and simulation and ethnographic assignments. Other Courses ESL1011 Special Topics in ESL (1-12cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to familiarize international students with the basic genres of academic writing across the disciplines. At the end of the course, students will be able to apply vocabulary and grammatical structures to summarizing, describing, making comparison and contrast, and expressing opinions. Placement into the course will be determined by TOEFL, IELTS, or Writing Placement Test score. ESL1011 Introduction to American College Culture (1 cr) right arrow down arrow This course is aimed at preparing first year international undergraduate students for a successful transition into an American University. This course introduces essential aspects of the U.S. college culture. It helps international students to adjust their expectations and to increase understanding of the key elements of the U.S. college culture through awareness raising activities and communicative practice. At the end of the course, students will acquire important skills that lay the foundation to become successful in an American university. ESL1076 US Culture and Communication I (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to assist international graduate students to recognize, analyze, and utilize academic criticism practices in discipline-specific research articles. Focusing on the pragmatics of conducting, evaluating, and reporting research projects, this course will support students in their research writing process. ESL 1077 Strategies for Academic Success right arrow down arrow This course is aimed at raising and developing ESL students’ pragmatic awareness and competence in academic contexts through awareness raising activities and communicative practice. The course will integrate interactive learning techniques such as discussions and role-plays; activities using video and audio recordings; written texts; authentic and relevant web-based materials; and practical assignments. ESL7010 Teaching Skills for International TAs (3cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed to familiarize international students with writing genres commonly required at the graduate level. Skills in critical reading and thinking strategies, rhetorical awareness, and textual analysis will be emphasized. At the end of the course, students will be able to employing a variety of modes of discourse to analyze, summarize, and synthesize texts and respond to problems. Placement into the course will be determined by TOEFL, IELTS, or Writing Placement Test score. ESL7011 Special Topics in ESL (1 cr) right arrow down arrow This course is designed for visiting scholars who need to further develop English proficiency in order to better participate in various academic activities during their visit at the University of Cincinnati. This course will focus on communication styles and cultural aspects in both academic and professional settings. Four components under discussion include improving pronunciation, communication skills, cultural awareness, and presentation techniques. ESL 7067 Technical and Scientific Writing and Communication for International Students right arrow down arrow This course is designed to (1) prepare international students for the kinds and purposes of professional writing they will do in professional careers in technology, science, and engineering; (2) strengthen students’ academic presentation skills necessary for presenting in academic seminars or professional meetings. Students will learn to develop strategies and techniques to analyze audience, select and organize materials, develop and support arguments, respond to questions and comments, and effectively present information in both written and oral formats. Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top