Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services CECH right arrow down arrow About CECH right arrow down arrow Headlines Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow CECH DEI Board Resources What's Happening right arrow down arrow CECH Diversity in the News Summer of Social Justice Be Historic College Events Faculty and Staff Staff Advisory Board Centers and Partnerships right arrow down arrow Action Research Center (ARC) right arrow down arrow What We Do Who we are Get Involved Advancement and Transition Services Arlitt Center for Education, Research, and Sustainability right arrow down arrow Contact Us Donate Early Childhood Education Research Initiatives & Outreach Center for Criminal Justice Research (CCJR) right arrow down arrow About Services Staff Contact Institutes Reports Publications Center for English as a Second Language right arrow down arrow ESL Placement Tests ESL Placement Guide ESL Courses ESL Instructors Center for International Education and Research (CIER) right arrow down arrow Resources Our Faculty and Staff Center for Studies in Jewish Education And Culture right arrow down arrow About the Center Jewish Education Certificate CSJEC Partnerships Research & Partnerships Presentations and Events Publications Our Faculty, Staff and Students Corrections Institute (UCCI) right arrow down arrow Services Contact Training Institutes Products Resources COVID-19 Resources Developmental & Learning Sciences Research Center (DLSRC) Economics Center for Education & Research Literary Research and Innovation Center (LRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects Partnerships Professional Development Our Faculty and Staff Systems Development & Improvement Center Evaluation Services Center right arrow down arrow Services Selected Projects Partners Team Members Publications and Presentations Contact College Partners Institute of Crime Science right arrow down arrow Contact ICS Team Upward Bound right arrow down arrow About Us Staff Events Alumni UB FAQs Application Forms Lab for Education, Equity, and Opportunity right arrow down arrow Our Team Criteria for Our Work Contact Us UC Scholars Academy Initiative right arrow down arrow Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy UC Scholars Alumni Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners Research Resources and Support right arrow down arrow Data Community Spring Research Conference OITLD Resources right arrow down arrow Knowledge Base Rooms and Resources OITLD Service Portal CECH Library Student Recruitment and Marketing right arrow down arrow Marketing Ticket Request Undergraduate Program Request Form Graduate Program Request Form Downloadable Assets CECH Brand Guide Southwest Ohio Science and Engineering Expo right arrow down arrow Students Teachers Parents Judges Important Dates Fair Schedule Schedule of Exhibits Science Fair Sponsors Exhibitors 2021 Awards and Scholarships Donate Contact Directions 2021 Updates and Announcements Office of the Dean Academic Schools right arrow down arrow School of Education right arrow down arrow About the School of Education right arrow down arrow Research Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Early Childhood Education Online- Associates Early Childhood Education and Development- Minor Early Childhood Education- Online (Birth-Age 5) Early Childhood Education (Preschool- Grade 5) Human Development and Community Engagement Middle Childhood Education Secondary Education Special Education CDA Professional Development Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Curriculum and Instruction- Online Curriculum and Instruction - Onsite Educational Studies Educational Studies Ph.D. Educational Leadership- Online Instructional Design and Technology Literacy and Second Language Studies -Online Special Education- Online Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) - Online Urban Educational Leadership, EdD Forms Certificates and Endorsements right arrow down arrow Autism Spectrum Disorders - Online Blended and Online Learning and Teaching (BOLT) Certificate | Online Deaf Studies Endorsement- Early Childhood Generalist Endorsement Education for Environmental Sustainability Digital Learning Design Gifted Education Endorsement & Certificate Higher Education Leadership Certificate | Onsite Jewish Education Certificate | Onsite Medical Education (Curriculum & Instruction) -Online Middle Childhood Generalist Endorsement Postsecondary Literacy Instruction Certificate - Online Endorsement- PreK-12 Reading Instruction Certificate Special Education Leadership Certificate -Online STEM Teaching and Learning - Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Certificate Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) | Online TESOL K-12 Undergraduate Certificate Professional Development right arrow down arrow Teacher Resources Professional Development Resources License Renewal Courses FAQ Our Faculty and Staff Office of Educator Preparation right arrow down arrow Office of Field Experiences CAEP Accreditation Tk20 Professional Cohort Admissions Information Advancement & Transition Services right arrow down arrow About ATS Collaboration for Employment and Education Synergy Transition & Access Program Certificate IMPACT Innovation ATS News and Upcoming Events ATS Community Partners & Employment Giving Opportunities Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Community Volunteer Opportunities Research Opportunities Programs on Campus Scientific Research in Children's Literacy Lab Teacher Resources Teacher Awards Our Faculty and Staff UC BIPOC Teacher Pathway School of Criminal Justice right arrow down arrow Criminal Justice Career Expo right arrow down arrow Event Information Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Bachelors of Science in Paralegal Studies Minor- Criminal Justice Minor- Paralegal Studies Certificate- Forensic Populations Certificate- Foundations of Cybersecurity Certificate- Paralegal Studies Certificate - Correctional Rehabilitation Certificate- Crime and Intelligence Analysis Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Onsite Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Online Criminal Justice- Ph.D. Correctional Rehabilitation Graduate Certificate Crime Analysis and Prevention Graduate Certificate Analysis of Criminal Behavior Graduate Certificate Special Programs and Courses Undergraduate Research right arrow down arrow Application FAQ Testimonial Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Alpha Phi Sigma Criminal Justice Society Alumni right arrow down arrow Stay in Touch Contact Us Research right arrow down arrow Centers and Institutes Ph.D. Dissertations Our Faculty and Staff Summer Enrollment Courses School of Human Services right arrow down arrow Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Exercise Science Health Promotion and Education - Minor Public Health Public Health - Minor Sport Administration Sport Administration Minor Sport Coaching Certificate Sport Media and Promotion Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Online program Substance Abuse Prevention Certificate Substance Abuse Counseling Certificate Violence Prevention in Families, Schools, & Community Certificate Yoga Studies Certificate Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Behavior Analysis Professional Certificate Online Counseling Graduate Programs School Psychology Graduate Programs Health Promotion and Education Graduate Programs Master of Science in Sport Administration Master of Education in Foundations in Behavior Analysis Student Resources Real World Connections Our Staff & Faculty Human Services Research & Innovation Center (HSRIC) right arrow down arrow Projects & Services Team & Partners School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow About the School of Information Technology right arrow down arrow SoIT Strategic Plan IT Discipline Undergraduate Programs right arrow down arrow Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Certificates IT Accelerated Program Information Technology- Minor Graduate Programs right arrow down arrow Information Technology Graduate Certificates Master of Science in Information Technology- Onsite Master of Science in Information Technology- Online Ph.D. Information Technology Graduate Application FAQ Master of Science in Information Technology 4+1 Program Course Descriptions Centers right arrow down arrow IT Solutions Center IT Learning Center Ohio Cyber Range Institute Workforce Development Applied Machine Learning and Intelligence Lab Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Microsoft Software VMware Software Computer Specifications Computer Labs Technology Resources Events right arrow down arrow 2021 Outstanding Students Future Students right arrow down arrow Admissions Co-op Education Early IT Program right arrow down arrow Early IT Summer Camp 2022 Early IT Bilateral Agreements Teaching Endorsement Frequently Asked Questions IT Expo right arrow down arrow Senior Design Advisors News People right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact Your Advisor GenCyber Resources Stories from the SoIT Community right arrow down arrow Sanjana's Story Samuel's Story Selena's Story Judi's Story Shreyas' Story Student Success Program Programs and Degrees Future Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students right arrow down arrow Events right arrow down arrow Be Series Transfer and Transition Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Events Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Events Military and Veteran Students Scholarships & Funding Family & Parent Resources right arrow down arrow Future CECH Students Current CECH Students Virtual Map Tour Teachers and Guidance Counselor Resources right arrow down arrow Resources Current Students right arrow down arrow Student Services Center right arrow down arrow What is Advising Academic Policies Applications right arrow down arrow Readmission or change of College Change of Program within CECH Certificate or Minor Application Find Your CECH Academic Advisor right arrow down arrow CECH Student Services Staff Directory Gainful Employment Licensure Application Information Location Parent Resources Scholarships & Funding right arrow down arrow CECH Undergraduate Scholarships Student Resources Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Association (GSA) Study Abroad CECH right arrow down arrow Study Abroad Scholarship App More Info CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor CECH Scholarships & Recipients right arrow down arrow CECH Scholarship Donor Request Scholarship Application FAQS CECH Mentor & Volunteer Opportunities Alumni and Giving right arrow down arrow Alumni Engagement Contact Us Distinguished Alumni right arrow down arrow Past Distinguished Alumni Giving Opportunities right arrow down arrow Ways to Give right arrow down arrow Types of Gifts CECH Giving Priorities COVID-19 College Updates UC CECH » Current Students » Student Services Center » CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor Set Navigation title in component CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor What is Advising Academic Policies Applications Readmission or change of College Change of Program within CECH Certificate or Minor Application Find Your CECH Academic Advisor CECH Student Services Staff Directory Gainful Employment Licensure Application Information Location Parent Resources Scholarships & Funding CECH Undergraduate Scholarships Student Resources Student Organizations Graduate Student Association (GSA) CECH Conference Travel Funding Process Get Involved GSA Constitution Study Abroad CECH Study Abroad Scholarship App Application Confirmation More Info CECH Embedded Mental Health Counselor Madeleine Muller, LPCC, she/her, is a licensed professional clinical embedded CAPS counselor within CECH. Her office is in the CECH Student Services Center (Teachers-Dyer Complex Suite 360). Madeleine’s therapeutic approach is Person-Centered and Strengths-Based. She is passionate about helping students access their power to make lifestyle changes by using the strengths they already possess. Madeleine’s goal is to provide a safe space where students feel heard and validated. She believes finding the right “fit” in a counselor is important and will work with students to achieve this. Madeleine wants students to know that they are not alone; no problem is too small to reach out for support. Madeleine Muller, MA, LPCC (she/her/hers) Embedded Clinical Counselor, Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) College of Education, Criminal Justice, Human Services, and Information Technology (CECH) University of Cincinnati | 360 Teachers-Dyer Complex | PO Box 210002 | Cincinnati, OH 45221 mullerml@ucmail.uc.edu | 513-556-1256 GET CRISIS HELP HELP A STUDENT IN CRISIS VIEW SELF HELP OPTIONS Schedule a Counseling Appointment with the CECH Embedded Counselor Are you interested in meeting with the CECH embedded mental health counselor? Make an appointment by following the steps below: Call UC CAPS at 513-556-0648. Indicate that you are a CECH student and you'd like to schedule with Madeleine Muller. UC CAPS will schedule your initial 40-minute video conference or phone appointment. UC CAPS will provide an email with instructions for completing pre-appointment paperwork, and how to connect to your appointment. Make sure you complete the pre-appointment paperwork prior to your counseling meeting Or schedule a Let's Talk appointment: a 15-20 minute confidential conversation over the phone, Microsoft Teams, or in-person where students can ask questions, learn about mental health resources and get support from a therapist. To schedule a 15-20 minute Let’s Talk session instead, click here. New Technology Innovations Reach Out is a free app that provides a wealth of information for the UC community. This app includes information regarding available resources under a "Help Me" menu, tips on how to talk with others about mental health under a "Help a friend" menu, and contact information for crisis services under "Emergency Contacts". Get the full details on Reach Out. Register on TAO connect here TAO Referral guide Frequently Asked Questions How much will therapy cost me? right arrow down arrow CAPS does charge a fee for some services. However, no student will be denied services due to financial barriers. The initial consultation and first three individual sessions are at no cost to UC students. There will be a $35 fee for most individual therapy sessions after the third individual appointment in a fiscal year. There is no charge for group therapy. If you have questions or concerns about fees, please speak to your initial consultation therapist or ongoing treatment provider about a fee waiver. Note: CAPS waives the fees for the following students: 1. Students with Medicare, Medicaid or a Student Health insurance plan 2. Students who are Veterans 3. Students who are Pell or Cincinnati Pride Grant Recipients 4. Students who have experienced identity based violence, stress, or trauma. What does the first session look like? right arrow down arrow Designed to provide counseling when you need it, as soon as you need it, CAPS provides free, stand-alone appointments that give students fast access to single therapy sessions focused on their needs. These appointments are called Rapid Access Consultations (RAC) and typically last 40-50 minutes. These sessions are primarily virtual at this time, unless there are extenuating circumstances that require in-person sessions. In-person appointments will be held in the CECH Student Services Center (Teachers-Dyer Complex Suite 360). How long will I be in therapy? right arrow down arrow CAPS uses single session and brief therapy models. Many students who attend only one session report that the single session was all that was needed, given their current circumstance. For students working on short-term mental health goals, CAPS clinicians meet with students for bi-weekly, individual therapy sessions during the semester. What if I want to switch therapists? right arrow down arrow Most of the time, students feel connected with their therapist. There are times, however, when it may just not feel like a good fit. Although it might feel hard, we believe it is best to speak directly with your therapist and let them know you would like to change therapists. We do not get offended when students want to change therapists, though we do find it is helpful to talk about the reasons you want to change to figure out how to best suit your needs. How do I know if my concern is appropriate for therapy? right arrow down arrow There is a range of concerns for which people seek therapy. Examples include relationship issues (with parents, roommates, friends, romantic partners, and more), making a difficult decision, facing stressful problems, or dealing with milestone life events, such as graduation, starting a new internship, or a loved one’s death. Does CAPS offer group therapy? right arrow down arrow Yes, group therapy is often a treatment of choice for many students’ concerns. Online groups are a highly effective way to address mental health and other personal concerns. By engaging in group therapy, students can expect improved overall well-being and connection with others. To see what groups are being offered this semester, check out this link. Will therapy show up on my academic record? right arrow down arrow Neither the fact that you have seen a counselor nor anything you say in counseling will ever appear on your academic record. Your current professors and the institutions you attend in the future will never know you are or were in counseling. A student’s counseling and academic records are completely separate. The exception is when a student poses foreseeable harm to self or as required by HIPAA law. A student can, however, choose to sign a release of information form in order to allow the counselor to disclose confidential information to a third party, if so desired. How do I schedule an appointment? right arrow down arrow If you are a UC student accessing services in Ohio, call CAPS at 513-556-0648 to schedule a Rapid Access Consultation (RAC). We have sessions available Monday – Friday between 9:00 am and 4:00 pm. After you schedule, you will receive an email from CAPS with instructions for how to complete your paperwork and connect to your appointment. What if I'm not ready to commit, but have questions? right arrow down arrow Check out Let’s Talk, a 15-20-minute confidential conversation over the phone, Microsoft Teams, or in-person where students can learn strategies, ask questions, and get support from our CECH embedded mental health counselor! What if I need help finding a provider in the community, can you help? right arrow down arrow Yes, by scheduling a Rapid Access Consultation, students can talk with a therapist and work together to identify a good “fit”. A great resource to finding community providers is Psychology Today, where you can search for therapists by zip code, insurance, specialties, etc. (https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/therapists) Faculty Resources and FAQ Should I refer a student for counseling? right arrow down arrow Making a referral for counseling is a skill that requires tact, sensitivity, and at times, firmness. The purpose of the referral should be made clear to the student. If possible, explain how the counseling office might assist the student with their problems. Introduce the topic of referral to the student by summarizing to him or her what you understand to be the problem. Emphasize the emotional responses that you have heard. State specifically why you are concerned and describe the behaviors, then suggest a visit to the Counseling Office. A student's initial contact with the Counseling Office may be made by phone, or by visiting the office. Give the student information about the Counseling Office and urge them to call. If you want to offer support, you can have the student call the Counseling Office from your office and/or you can offer to accompany the student to their first session. If you call the Counseling Office on behalf of the student, identify yourself and explain to the support staff that you are assisting a student in making an appointment, then allow the student to speak with the support staff to arrange an appointment. Emergencies are always accommodated as soon as possible, and same day appointments may be possible. For non-emergency situations, appointments are highly recommended. If you decide it is important to share information about the student with the Counseling Office, it is better to receive permission from the student beforehand. Contact a counselor in the Counseling Office later to share pertinent information about the person you referred. To alert multiple offices on campus about a student concern the Crisis, Assessment, Referral, Evaluation Team (CARE Team) is a great source for developing support and connection to useful resources for the student on campus. What are some after-hours sources of emergency services? right arrow down arrow The Greater Cincinnati Area Crisis Information Line Referral Sources can be used after-hours in case of an emergency: Emergency Help (24-hour police assistance): call 911 United Way Help Line: 513-721-7900 Suicide/Depression Hotline: 513-281-CARE Psychiatric Emergency Services: 513-584-8577 National Suicide Hotline: 800-273-8255 CAPS (Main campus): 513-556-0648 Emergency Help (24-hour police assistance): call 911 Butler County Crisis Hotline: 513-523-4146 Clermont County Crisis Hotline: 513-528-SAVE Warren County Crisis Hotline: 877-695-NEED LGBTQ+ youth suicide prevention hotline: 866-488-7386 Crisis Text Line: Text START to 741-741 What can I do after the referral? right arrow down arrow Student confidentiality prohibits the counseling staff from providing faculty or staff with information about a student you have referred, as once a referral is made, communication between the student and the Counseling Office is often confidential. It is almost always appropriate, however, for you to check back with the student to determine whether he or she has followed through on your recommendation. This communicates your interest and concern. What resources are available to help me support students? right arrow down arrow Some students form an attachment with faculty and staff and look to them for support. Before deciding to support a student on your own, briefly assess the situation, its seriousness, and potential for referral. If you choose to support students yourself UC CAPS can provide you with consultation and support. Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Teachers/Dyer Complex 2610 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 513-556-4307 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top