Skip to content Clean Energy Conversions Laboratory About MissionSponsors Our Team Learn CO₂ StorageCCS vs CDRMineral CarbonationAll Topics Our Research News Contact An affiliated lab of the An affiliated lab of the Mitigating the harmful effects of climate change through research in carbon management. 280 MW That's how much power you need to support a direct air capture plant at the megatonne (million tonne) scale. We map opportunities to link these energy intensive approaches with low-carbon energy. Learn about the problem of scale Learn & Explore CDR Primer Our open source CDR primer represents nearly 40 subject matter experts and addresses the fundamentals of carbon dioxide removal and its role in addressing the climate crisis. ‍ Learn about CDR in our open source primer. Listen to the authors speak on its origins and impacts in this Kleinman Center Podcast. Waste to value: mine tailings What makes serpentine chrysotile asbestos feedstocks a great option for storing carbon for the long term? Find out more in our 2-page explainer on mineral carbonation. Learn about CCS in Jen's textbook Learn more Natural Drawdown Around 90% of the voluntary carbon offset market is tied to improved forest management.Learn more about the principles of high quality CDR Engineered Drawdown While expensive and immature, engineered CDR like DAC can potentially provide more secure CO₂ storageLearn more about DAC ResearchVisit our research page Current state of industrial heating and opportunities for decarbonization The IPCC recommends keeping the global average temperature increase well below 2 °C, if not below 1.5 °C, by 2100 to avoid the worst effects of climate change. This requires achieving carbon neutrality shortly after 2050. In the United States, industrial emissions represent 22% of greenhouse gas emissions and are particularly hard to decarbonize, because (1) the processes emit CO2 as a byproduct of chemical reactions and (2) these industries require high-grade heat input. This study focuses on some of these industries, namely cement, lime, glass, and steelmaking. This work details the incumbent kiln and furnace technologies and explores the developing processes with examples of existing projects that aim to reduce carbon emissions, such as carbon capture and storage (CCS), fuel switching, and other technological changes. Download the PDFWatch the VideoDownload the PresentationListen to the Podcast January 2022 Jennifer Wilcox, Helene Pilorge, Maxwell Pisciotta Research topics Hydrogen Production & Storage Carbon Capture, Utilization, & Storage Mineral Carbonization Ammonia Production Life Cycle Analysis Techno-economic Assessment Catalysis Geographic Information Systems Mapping Carbon Dioxide Removal Direct Air Capture Miscellaneous Download the PDFDownload the PresentationWatch the VideoListen to the Podcast An overview of the status and challenges of CO2 storage in minerals and geological formations Since the Industrial Revolution, anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions have grown exponentially, accumulating in the atmosphere and leading to global warming. According to the IPCC (IPCC Special Report 2018), atmospheric warming should be less than 2 ℃ to avoid the most serious consequences associated with climate change. This goal can be achieved in part by reducing CO2 emissions, together with capturing and sequestering CO2 from point sources. The most mature storage technique is sequestration in deep saline aquifers. In addition, CO2 can be mineralized and sequestered in solid form by various techniques: ex-situ, surficial and in situ mineralization. Ex situ and surficial approaches may produce valuable products while mitigating environmental hazards. In-situ mineralization uses ultramafic and mafic geological formations for permanent, solid storage. A portfolio that limits warming to less than 2 ℃ by 2100 will include avoiding CO2 emissions and removal of CO2 from air. Regardless of the specific mix of approaches, it will be essential to permanently sequester tens of billions of tons of CO2. Maximizing the potential of all of these storage technologies will help to meet global climate goals. The research agenda published by the National Academy of Science (NASEM 2019) calls for about $1 billion over a 10-20 year time period to advance deployment of CO2 sequestration in deep sedimentary reservoirs at the GtCO2/yr scale and develop CO2 mineralization at the MtCO2/yr scale. Download the PDFWatch the VideoDownload the PresentationListen to the Podcast November 2019 Jennifer Wilcox, Peter Psarras, Helene Pilorge Research topics Hydrogen Production & Storage Carbon Capture, Utilization, & Storage Mineral Carbonization Ammonia Production Life Cycle Analysis Techno-economic Assessment Catalysis Geographic Information Systems Mapping Carbon Dioxide Removal Direct Air Capture Miscellaneous Download the PDFDownload the PresentationWatch the VideoListen to the PodcastMore Research Featured Video Penn Engagement Days In the Fall of 2020, CECL moved to our new home in Penn Engineering and the Kleinman Center for Energy Policy. Watch as our team talks through the problem of carbon management, discusses Jennifer's interim role with the Department of Energy, and speaks on our experience here at Penn. Watch more videos on our Youtube channel Featured News Jen is appointed Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management Jen is appointed Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management Our own Jennifer Wilcox was appointed Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management in January 2021. In recognition of her endless contributions to climate change research, the Biden Administration has placed Jen near the top of the DOE food chain, leading monumental efforts and managing large budgets to aid in our transition to a less carbon intensive future. Congratulations Jen! Katherine Gomes has been accepted as a member of Women in Climate Tech Katherine Gomes has been accepted as a member of Women in Climate Tech Women in Climate Tech is an organization aimed to empower and amplify the voices of women, in climate tech; working to solve the biggest challenge of our time. Congratulations Katherine! Noah's Heirloom process makes List of DAC Companies to watch in 2022 Noah's Heirloom process makes List of DAC Companies to watch in 2022 A recent post by "Carbon Curve" pegs Noah's Heirloom process one of 8 DAC companies to watch in 2022. We couldn't agree more!View All News Team member spotlight Daniel Nothaft Daniel Nothaft Lab Manager Research Focus: Dan brings his background in Geochemistry to several projects in the group, especially those pertaining to carbon mineralization and carbonation kinetics of Mg/Ca oxide materials at near-ambient conditions and their application to direct air capture.Learn About Our Team Maxwell Pisciotta Maxwell Pisciotta PhD Candidate Research Focus: Max Pisciotta is a 2nd-year Ph.D. student in Chemical Engineering at the University of Pennsylvania and holds a B.S. and M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the Colorado School of Mines. Max’s research focuses on point-source carbon capture and direct air carbon capture. Learn About Our Team Dr. Hélène Pilorgé Dr. Hélène Pilorgé Research Associate Research Focus: Hélène looks at carbon management with a spatial perspective to find local synergies and optimize carbon management strategies, while recognizing the importance for environment conservation and social justice.Learn About Our Team Katherine Vaz Gomes Katherine Vaz Gomes PhD Candidate Research Focus: Katherine brings a background in chemical engineering and professional writing with years of experimental research. Her focus is carbon mineralization of mine tailings to permanently store carbon dioxide.Learn About Our Team Dr. Peter Psarras Dr. Peter Psarras Research Assistant Professor Research Focus: My research involves techno-economic assessment and lifecycle analysis of technologies spanning both carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) and enigeered carbon dioxide removal (CDR). These analyses inform strategic regional pathways for responsible deployment of carbon management systems. Learn About Our Team Jen Wilcox Jen Wilcox James H. Manning Chaired Professor Research Focus: Wilcox’s research takes aim at the nexus of energy and the environment, developing both mitigation and adaptation strategies to minimize negative climate impacts associated with society’s dependence on fossil fuels. Learn About Our Team An affiliated lab of theKleinman Center for Energy Policy at the University of Pennsylvania ceclab@seas.upenn.edu Get the latest CECL news:Join the Kleinman Center Newsletter © 2021 University of Pennsylvania Copyright Privacy Disclaimer Accessibility Emergency Services