Skip to main content Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Professional Educators College of Education Menu Close About Us Leadership Licensure Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion College Resources Directory Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Graduate Transfer Students Departments Alternative Licensure and Residency Programs How to Become a Teacher in North Carolina Professional Education Global Programs N.C. Teaching Fellows Transformational Scholars Student Success and Advising Center (SSAC) Admissions Visit Us Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply Now Research Research Expertise Research Projects Research Publications Research Office Research Café Friday Institute Belk Center Giving News Give Now About Us About Us Leadership Licensure Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion College Resources Directory Contact Us Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Transfer Students Departments Alternative Licensure and Residency Programs How to Become a Teacher in North Carolina Professional Education Global Programs N.C. Teaching Fellows Transformational Scholars Student Success and Advising Center (SSAC) Admissions Admissions Visit Us Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply Now Research Research Research Expertise Research Projects Research Publications Research Office Research Café Friday Institute Belk Center Giving Giving News News Give Now Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion The NC State College of Education’s land-grant vision is to lead the way in increasing educational opportunities for all and reducing achievement gaps. To fulfill this vision, we must confront racial injustices and build a more diverse, inclusive and supportive community — both within our college and in the field of education. In summer 2020, the college created a change agent group to identify additional strategies and actions we, as a college, will take to intensify our efforts in these areas. A Call to Action “Becoming an anti-racist college of education represents a never-ending commitment to disrupt and dismantle systemic oppression so that all human beings are reflected and protected within schools and communities. Doing this work is an opportunity for us to imagine and create environments that are equitable and just not only for some of us, but for ALL of us.” — Senior Advisor for Advancing DEI Joy Gaston G ayles Hear Joy’s Call to Action College of Education Change Agent Task Force The College of Education’s Change Agent Task Force for Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion is made up of faculty, staff and students within the college who serve as liaisons; experts in diversity, equity, and inclusion; and advisors whose work encourages and empowers the college community and the next generation of educators and scholar-leaders to teach and lead in ways that disrupt inequities, value diversity and promote change. About the Change Agent Task Force Task Force Members Pack IDEAs: Newsletter Archives Courageous Conversations in Community packideas SPotlights: Hear from Our Community Andrea Duhon “I hope to create a chain of difference makers who work endlessly to help others create change.” Meet Andrea Rolanda Mitchell “Our goal is to graduate counselors who have unconditional positive regard, empathy and hope for the students, clients and families they serve.” Meet Rolanda Susan Chen “If we are able to find creative ways to engage with students of color, then we are able to thoughtfully curate a tailored experience to meet their needs.” Meet Susan Sue Barcinas “I’ve always been interested in understanding how many ways adults can learn and grow over their lifetimes and how diversity is a crucial part of our professional and personal lives.” Meet Sue Kayla Baker “DEI provides a shared knowledge base for discussing and challenging matters such as injustice, marginalization and oppression.” Meet Kayla Ha Nguyen ’21PHD “I firmly believe that everyone has a story to tell. Therefore, everyone deserves to be heard, seen and celebrated.” Meet Ha Ajaya Francis Jonas “I hope to teach future educators and scholar-leaders to listen to and learn from narratives and lived experiences other than their own, to break out of our comfort zones and bubbles we may find ourselves in everyday and interact with and engage across differences. “ Meet Ajaya Harley Locklear “It’s so heartwarming to hear from my kids when they reflect on how seeing themselves reflected in the educators who serve them makes them feel more supported.” Meet Harley Brett Ranon Nachman “I consider it a duty to continually listen, learn and reform my practice in shaping classrooms, orchestrating research endeavors and engaging in other endeavors that are inclusive to all.” Meet Brett Corina De La Torre ’24PHD “As a first-generation Latinx womxn, I am invested in supporting diversity, equity and inclusion in and out of academic spaces through promoting, advocating and bridging the gap between theory and praxis.” Meet Corina Joy Gaston Gayles, Ph.D. “In order to work effectively with and on behalf of ALL students, we have to create spaces that are equitable and just for everyone. To do that we have to disrupt the norm that has historically privileged people who hold dominant social identities and oppressed people who fall outside of this mythical norm.” Meet Joy Jose A. Picart, Ph.D. “When I teach, I try to model as much as possible what inclusive instruction and curriculum should look and feel like. Valuing and respecting each student for who they are and what they bring to the learning experience helps create an environment where students can be their authentic selves and feel like they belong.” Meet Jose Sarah Cannon, Ph.D. “I hope my future educators are equity literate – that they are able to identify when inequities are occurring in their classrooms and in the school community at large. I hope my future educators have the tools to be culturally sustaining in their classrooms and to be advocates within the larger school community.” Meet Sarah Jamison Lowery ‘22MED “Having those folks you can look up to inspires you to be able to persist and keep on doing what you aspire to do. This is especially true when you don’t share the same advantages as those around you.” Meet Jamison George Duo ’22MED “For those of us who hold marginalized identities and have to navigate systemic racism and oppression, it can be difficult and reignite scars of the past during our pursuit of anti-racist education. Hold your passion for the necessary work required to create a more equitable world, but also remember to hold space for yourself too.” Meet George Victoria Chavis ‘23PHD “The quote ‘be the change you want to see in the world’ has really motivated me to continue to pursue higher education in order to generate change for all minoritized students in higher education.” Meet Victoria Gavin Bell ‘21MED “The education field is one of the arenas where I have seen significant disparity when it comes to access and student support. In order for this field to be all it can be, there has to be intentional action steps taken beyond just a simple ‘representation quota.'” Meet Gavin Jessica DeCuir-Gunby, Ph.D. “There is no quick fix to address issues of diversity, equity and inclusion, especially racism. It will require significant investments including time and financial resources. However, this is the work that we need to do in order to make our community better, which in turn helps us to produce even better educators, leaders and researchers.” Meet Jessica Lisa Bass, Ph.D. “When we work to find out what diverse populations need in order to be successful and devote our work toward meeting those needs, then diverse populations will begin to perform to their potential, and we will one day see equality. Especially if we do not stop until we have worked to meet all of the different needs.” Meet Lisa Crystal Chen Lee, Ed.D. “As an educator, it is important for me that all students are able to bring their full humanity to the classroom and to their work. I believe that when students are invited to bring in their multiple languages, cultures and experiences into our classrooms, DEI will become both a framework and foundation to the teaching and learning happening in educational spaces.” Meet Crystal Caranda Shubrick ’24PHD “I serve as the campaign director for the North Carolina Commission on Racial and Ethnic Disparities. My spiritual beliefs and practices, community and life-giving relationships undergird my actions, perspectives and interactions with others as I engage in diversity, equity, inclusion and justice work in education and society at large.” Meet Caranda Diversity Resources DEI Resources Being an anti-racist College of Education means, in part, that we will have multiple and repeated opportunities to grapple with and disrupt systems, policies and practices that perpetuate injustices for racial and other marginalized populations. The resources provided here will help shift our frames of reference and expand forms of knowledge; thus, giving us tools and information to disrupt dominant narratives that perpetuate inequities. Check Them Out Courageous Conversations in Community The College of Education’s Task force for Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion collaborates with others across the college to hold the Courageous Conversations in Community Series, which brings the college together to discuss topics that foster greater awareness and understanding of diversity, equity and inclusion. Learn More DEI News More News Symposium Organized by Assistant Professor Crystal Chen Lee Encourages ‘Teaching and Telling Asian American Stories’ in the Classroom College of Education Alumna Andrea Duhon Is Making Marginalized Students Feel Seen and Heard by Giving Back Rolanda Mitchell is Using Diversity, Equity and Inclusion To Help Build Strong Educational Systems in K-12 Schools and Higher Education DEI-Related Upcoming Events All DEI-related events Jun 20 Monday11:00 AM NC State Celebration of Juneteenth Other Resources Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity at NC State seeks to create an experience where everyone, regardless of beliefs, background, orientation or ability, feels at home as part of the Wolfpack. They offer programs, trainings and other initiatives to support the campus community. Learn more UNC System Racial Equity Task Force The task force examines the legacy of race and racism in North Carolina’s public higher education system, how that history shapes and impacts the experiences of our students, faculty, staff and communities, and arrives at an actionable path forward that will build a culture of inclusion across our institutions. Learn more College of Education Home 208 Poe Hall, 2310 Stinson Drive Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.5514 Accreditation North Carolina State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award the associate, baccalaureate, master's and doctoral degrees. Read full text Accessibility CACREP CAEP Contact Copyright Employment Opportunities Faculty and Staff Giving Policies Privacy SAGE Visit Us Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.