Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu College of Education Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Education Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State About Undergraduate Programs Scholarships Admissions Graduate Programs Assistantships & Financial Aid Research Books and Publications Faculty and Staff Alumni Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State About Undergraduate Graduate Research Faculty and Staff Alumni Full Site Navigation Undergraduate Programs Scholarships Admissions Graduate Programs Master’s Master of Arts in Teaching Doctoral Certificates Assistantships & Financial Aid Research Books and Publications Department of STEM Education With a primary emphasis on improving schools and society, the department prepares quality educators for middle, secondary and post-secondary school science, technology, engineering, mathematics, graphic communications and informal settings. Whether you are an experienced educator or new to the profession, we have a program that will help you leverage your passion in STEM to make a positive difference in the field of education. Here, you will connect research to practice and develop a mastery of your content area to transform the practice of teaching, learning and leading. Find the right program for you. Our Programs Ph.D. in Learning and Teaching in STEM: Program Areas of Study Engineering and Technology Education Mathematics and Statistics Education Science Education Doctor of Education Technology Education Master's Programs Engineering and Technology Education Mathematics Education Science Education Undergraduate Majors Mathematics Education (Middle School or Secondary) Science Education (Middle School or Secondary) Technology, Engineering, and Design Education Undergraduate Minors Technology, Engineering, and Design Education: Graphics Communications Minor Technology, Engineering, and Design Education: Minor We are state and national leaders in STEM education. #1 Producer of STEM Educators in N.C. #5 Producer of Doctorates in STEM Education in U.S. #1 in Education Research Activity in N.C. The Think Tank Made up of a diverse group of thinkers and doers, NC State’s STEM Ed faculty and staff are rich in the experience and knowledge that brings learning to life. Our People What We’re Up To Our research tackles a variety of faculty and student interests and looks to solve some of the biggest issues facing educators and their students today. Our Research Join the Wolfpack Ready to become a part of the STEM Ed department? Start the application process to take the next step towards your future today. Apply Now “The opportunities within the NC State College of Education’s Department of STEM Education are wonderful and far beyond what I imagined when I applied to the program.” —Megan Ennes ’19 PHD Recent News College of Education News May 26, 2022 College of Education Faculty Contribute to New Handbook of Research on Science Teacher Education A new book co-edited by Gail Jones, an Alumni Distinguished Graduate Professor in the NC State College of Education, is providing insights into science teacher education through a thorough review... May 25, 2022 Teaching Fellow and Former LIFT Participant Maia Grace Solomon ’25 Named to Caldwell Fellows Class of 2025 Maia Solomon '25, a mathematics education major, has been selected as one of 28 first-year students who now make up the Caldwell Fellows class of 2025. May 24, 2022 How Can Innovative Ways of Teaching Help Students Better Understand Math? ‘More Students Get Involved When They’re Asked to Be Central to the Learning Environment,’ Says Assistant Professor Erin Krupa Shifting away from traditional ways of teaching mathematics and introducing innovative and unconventional curricula into the classroom can help students become more engaged and better able to learn to do... College of Education 208 Poe Hall, 2310 Stinson Drive Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.5514 Contact Faculty and Staff Giving Policies Employment Opportunities CACREP CAEP SAGE Privacy ACCREDITATION North Carolina State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award the associate, baccalaureate, master's and doctoral degrees. Read full text © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.