Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu College of Education Educational Leadership, Policy, and Human Development (ELPHD) Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State About Meet Our Interim Department Head Admissions Assistantships & Financial Aid Outreach and Engagement Programs Doctoral Master’s Certificate Research Books and Publications Faculty and Staff Alumni Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State About Programs Research Faculty and Staff Alumni Full Site Navigation About Meet Our Interim Department Head Admissions Assistantships & Financial Aid Outreach and Engagement Programs Doctoral Master’s Certificate Research Books and Publications ELPHD Designed for graduate students with a drive to improve the field of education, the vibrant research culture and dedicated faculty of the ELPHD department inspire and guide students from day one through teaching, advising and dissertation supervision. Our Research Award-winning faculty and students work together to give leaders effective tools to solve current issues in education. Our People ELPHD faculty and staff are committed to educational equity and student success while advancing research that tackles complex issues facing education today. Our Alumni Graduates from the ELPHD department are part of an extraordinary roster of alumni – including teachers, principals, superintendents and more. Join the Wolfpack Ready to become a part of the ELPHD department? Start the application process to take the next step towards your future today. Apply Now Nothing offers greater promise for individuals and communities than education. We know this. Our students know it too. We are teachers and educators, administrators, researchers, policy analysts and evaluators, human resources and workforce development professionals. Our nationally ranked degree and certificate programs are led by faculty and staff who are committed to the success of our more than 600 students. Together, we aim to improve education—from K-12 schools, to community colleges and universities, to workplace training—through applied theory, rigorous research, professional ethics, and data-driven best practice. Recent News College of Education News Jun 22, 2022 Doctoral Dissertation: LAURA IVEY LAURA IVEY Academics in Kindergarten: Helping Kids Catch-up or Fall Behind? Under the direction of Dr. Timothy Drake and Dr. Michael Little. June 22, 2022 at 1 p.m. Zoom link:… Jun 1, 2022 Doctoral Dissertation: HOLLEY NICHOLS Holley Nichols. Dissertation Title: Early Momentum Metrics Among Rural Transfer Students Majoring in STEM. Chair: Dr. Audrey Jaeger. Date: Wednesday, June 1, 2022. Time: 10:00am – 12:00pm Location: ZOOM Join… May 27, 2022 Associate Professor Lisa Bass Receives Ebony Harlem Award for Graduate Student Mentorship Lisa Bass, an associate professor of educational leadership and policy studies in the NC State College of Education, has received the 2022 Ebony Harlem Award for Graduate Student Mentorship from... College of Education 208 Poe Hall, 2310 Stinson Drive Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.5514 Contact Faculty and Staff Giving Privacy Policies Employment Opportunities CACREP CAEP SAGE ACCREDITATION North Carolina State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award the associate, baccalaureate, master's and doctoral degrees. Read full text © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.