Skip to main content Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Professional Educators College of Education Menu Close About Us Leadership Licensure Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion College Resources Directory Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Graduate Transfer Students Departments Alternative Licensure and Residency Programs How to Become a Teacher in North Carolina Professional Education Global Programs N.C. Teaching Fellows Transformational Scholars Student Success and Advising Center (SSAC) Admissions Visit Us Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply Now Research Research Expertise Research Projects Research Publications Research Office Research Café Friday Institute Belk Center Giving News Give Now About Us About Us Leadership Licensure Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion College Resources Directory Contact Us Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Transfer Students Departments Alternative Licensure and Residency Programs How to Become a Teacher in North Carolina Professional Education Global Programs N.C. Teaching Fellows Transformational Scholars Student Success and Advising Center (SSAC) Admissions Admissions Visit Us Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply Now Research Research Research Expertise Research Projects Research Publications Research Office Research Café Friday Institute Belk Center Giving Giving News News Give Now Celebrating Hiller Spires After 35 years with NC State’s College of Education, Hiller Spires will retire June 1, 2022. Here’s a look back at her career and impact, including serving as the founding executive director of the Friday Institute for Educational Innovation. 5 ways Dr. Spires made a difference Visit Explore our home and meet our welcoming community of students, faculty and staff. Apply Begin your academic journey at North Carolina’s leading college of education. Explore Dig into how our research transforms the practice of teaching, learning and leading. Give Help us prepare more extraordinary educators and solve educational problems. Find a Program We prepare extraordinary educators who change the world one student, one school, one community at a time. Join them. Undergraduate Graduate Alternative/Residency License Become a Teacher in N.C. All Programs As a research powerhouse grounded in our land-grant mission, we prepare extraordinary educators, solve educational problems and increase the educational success of all learners across North Carolina and beyond #1 producer of STEM educators in North Carolina Top 5% in active research funding among colleges of education in the U.S. #28 ranked college of education in the U.S. Advancing diversity, equity and inclusion As as a land-grant College of Education, we have a unique responsibility to confront racial injustices and build a more diverse, inclusive and supportive community. Learn more Students make their way across campus on the first day of classes for the fall 2020 semester. Photo by Becky Kirkland. In the spotlight Transformational Scholars Thanks to a generous gift from the Anonymous Trust, we’re establishing the Transformational Scholarships Program to prepare 100 teachers for eastern North Carolina. Learn more Meet Our New Dean Paola Sztajn began serving as the College of Education’s dean on April 1, 2022. Learn more Belk Center Our Belk Center for Community College Leadership and Research supports community colleges across North Carolina and beyond through executive leadership programs, research and our Doctor of Education program. Learn more Friday Institute Our Friday Institute for Educational Innovation supports in-service teachers and K-12 schools across North Carolina and beyond by conducting research, developing resources and providing professional development programs. Learn more “I chose the NC State College of Education because it is the best college of education in North Carolina and one of the best in the nation.” – James Daniels ’21 teacher at East Cary Magnet Middle School Meet more of our alumni College of Education News Read more stories Symposium Organized by Assistant Professor Crystal Chen Lee Encourages ‘Teaching and Telling Asian American Stories’ in the Classroom Associate Dean, Executive Director of Friday Institute Hiller Spires: ‘Make Sure You Leave a Place Better Than You Found It.’ I Hope I’ve Been Able to Do That in the College of Education. How Can Innovative Ways of Teaching Help Students Better Understand Math? ‘More Students Get Involved When They’re Asked to Be Central to the Learning Environment,’ Says Assistant Professor Erin Krupa Stay connected Sign up to receive weekly news and updates from the NC State College of Education. Email* Submit Δ Connect with us on social Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram LinkedIn LinkedIn Upcoming Events All Events Jun 01 Wednesday6:30 PM Teaching and Telling Asian American Stories Virtual Symposium Jun 20 Monday11:00 AM NC State Celebration of Juneteenth Jun 20 Monday Juneteenth Observed (No Class) How We Think and Do Follow our Instagram feed as our students, alumni, faculty and staff show how they lead the way in meeting the educational needs of all learners across North Carolina and beyond. Follow Us Best of friends . The Power Sound of the … Open #NCState22, this one’s for you. Open Congratulations, #NCState22. 🎓🐺🐾 Open College of Education Home 208 Poe Hall, 2310 Stinson Drive Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.5514 Accreditation North Carolina State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award the associate, baccalaureate, master's and doctoral degrees. Read full text Accessibility CACREP CAEP Contact Copyright Employment Opportunities Faculty and Staff Giving Policies Privacy SAGE Visit Us Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.