Skip to main content Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Professional Educators College of Education Menu Close About Us Leadership Licensure Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion College Resources Directory Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Graduate Transfer Students Departments Alternative Licensure and Residency Programs How to Become a Teacher in North Carolina Professional Education Global Programs N.C. Teaching Fellows Transformational Scholars Student Success and Advising Center (SSAC) Admissions Visit Us Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply Now Research Research Expertise Research Projects Research Publications Research Office Research Café Friday Institute Belk Center Giving News Give Now About Us About Us Leadership Licensure Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion College Resources Directory Contact Us Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Transfer Students Departments Alternative Licensure and Residency Programs How to Become a Teacher in North Carolina Professional Education Global Programs N.C. Teaching Fellows Transformational Scholars Student Success and Advising Center (SSAC) Admissions Admissions Visit Us Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply Now Research Research Research Expertise Research Projects Research Publications Research Office Research Café Friday Institute Belk Center Giving Giving News News Give Now Filter By Dean Leadership Team Faculty and Academic Affairs Research and Innovation Student Success and Strategic Community Engagement Development Marketing and Communication Department of Educational Leadership, Policy, and Human Development Department of STEM Education Department of Teacher Education and Learning Sciences Belk Center Friday Institute Menu Dean Leadership Team Faculty and Academic Affairs Research and Innovation Student Success and Strategic Community Engagement Development Marketing and Communication Department of Educational Leadership, Policy, and Human Development Department of STEM Education Department of Teacher Education and Learning Sciences Belk Center Friday Institute Joy Gaston Gayles JG Senior Advisor for Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Program Coordinator & Professor of Higher Education Poe Hall 300D 919-513-0924 joy_gayles@ncsu.edu View CV Bio Dr. Joy Gaston Gayles is Professor of Higher Education and Program Coordinator in the Department of Educational Leadership, Policy, and Human Development. Recently, she received the Zenobia L. Hikes Woman of Color in the Academy Award for her scholarly contributions, engagement with campus and community, and record of advancing women of color in their pursuit of excellence. She also received a distinguished alumni award from The Ohio State University for exceptional leadership, service, and innovation in higher education. Dr. Gayles is nationally recognized through her service as a member of the National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity (NCFDD), the largest center for faculty development in the country. Dr. Gayles conducts workshops, facilitates webinars, and serves as a faculty coach for the center. She is currently a board member for the Association of the Study of Higher Education (ASHE) and served as Associate Editor for the Journal of Student Affairs Research & Practice (JSARP). Programs Program: Higher Education Administration Selected Scholarly Publications Gayles, J. G. (Ed.). (2018). Critical issues for student athletes: Going behind the invisible wall. New Directions for Student Services, 2018(163). San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. Gayles, J. G., Crandall, B. E., & Morin, S. (2018). Student-Athletes’ sense of belonging: Background characteristics, student involvement, and campus climate. International Journal of Sport & Society, 9(1), 23-28. Smith, K., & Gayles, J. G. (2018). Girl power: Gendered academic and workplace experiences of college women in engineering. Social Sciences, 7(11), 1-23. Smith, K. N., & Gayles, J. G. (2017). “Setting up for the next big thing”: Undergraduate women Engineering students’ post-baccalaureate career decision. Journal of College Student Development, 58(8),1201-1217. Kelly, B. T., Gayles, J. G., & Williams, C. (2017). Recruitment without retention: A critical case of Black faculty unrest. Journal of Negro Education, 86(3), 305-317. Gayles, J. G., & Ampaw, F. (2016). To stay or leave: Factors that impact undergraduate women’s persistence in science majors. NASPA Journal About Women in Higher Education, 9(2), 133-151. Gayles, J. G., Kelly, B. T., Grays, S., Zhang, J., Porter, K. (2015). Faculty teaching diversity through difficult dialogues: Stories of challenge and success. Journal of Student Affairs Research and Practice, 52(3), 300-312. Gayles, J. G. & Ampaw, F. (2014). The impact of college experiences on degree completion in STEM fields at four-year institutions: Does gender matter? Journal of Higher Education, 84(5), 439-468. Gayles, J. G., Bryant, A. N., & Davis, H. (2012). Civic responsibility and the student athlete: Validating a new conceptual model. Journal of Higher Education, 83(4), 535-557. Bryant, A. N., Gayles, J. G., & Davis, H. (2012). The relationship between civic behavior and civic values: A conceptual model. Research in Higher Education, 53(1), 76-93. Gayles, J. G. (Ed.). (2011). Attracting and Retaining Women in STEM. New Directions for Institutional Research, 2011(152). San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. Kelly, B. T., & Gayles, J. G. (2011).Resistance to racial/ethnic dialogue in graduate preparation programs: Implications for multicultural competence. College Student Affairs Journal, 29(1), 77-87. Scheuch, K., Hu, S., & Gayles, J. G. (2009). The influences of faculty on undergraduate student participation in research and creative activities. Innovative Higher Education, 34, 173-183. Gayles, J. G., & Hu, S. H. (2009). The influence of student engagement and sport participation on college outcomes among Division I student athletes. Journal of Higher Education, 80(3),315-333. Eddy, P. L., & Gayles, J. G. (2008). New faculty on the block: Issues of stress and support. Journal of Human Behavior in the Social Environment, 17(1/2), 89-106. Hu, S., Scheuch, K., Schwartz, R., Gayles, J. G., & Li, S. (2008). Reinventing undergraduate education: Engaging college students in research and creative activities.San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. Media Mentions As NCAA tournament tips off, teams at top of brackets in hot water (2017) Accrediting Organization: Problems at UNC-CH ‘ a big deal’ (2015) Joy Gayles: UNC Lessons (2015) Education Doctor of Philosophy Educational Administration and Higher Education The Ohio State University 2002 Master of Science Higher Education Administration Auburn University 1998 Bachelor of Science Adapted Physical Education and Kinesiotherapy Shaw University 1996 Area(s) of Expertise Dr. Gayles’ research focuses on how college impacts student learning and personal development, primarily student-athletes and women and underrepresented people of color in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). These populations face unique challenges to persistence and degree attainment. Dr. Gayles’ research is dedicated to better understanding factors that enhance access and student success for these populations and for all college students. Through her scholarly contributions, Dr. Gayles’ has established a national reputation as an expert on intercollegiate athletics and women and underrepresented students in STEM. She has edited book volumes on these topics and has been quoted in both television and newspaper media. Her work has been published in some of the top journals in higher education including The Journal of Higher Education, Research in Higher Education, The Journal of College Student Development, and The Journal of Negro Education. Groups Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion Leadership College Impact on Students College Student Identity-Intersectionality-Holistic Development College Students College Students Diversity Attitudes and Values Diversity Educational Leadership and Policy ELPHD Equity & Diversity Faculty Higher Education Identity Intercollegiate Athletes & Student Affairs Leadership Team Motivation Multicultural & Indigenous Education Non-Cognitive Factors Postsecondary Education Racial Identity Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Education Self-Concept STEM Education Student Affairs Administration Students of Color Experience in Higher Education Underrepresented Populations Women in STEM College of Education Home 208 Poe Hall, 2310 Stinson Drive Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.5514 Accreditation North Carolina State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award the associate, baccalaureate, master's and doctoral degrees. Read full text Accessibility CACREP CAEP Contact Copyright Employment Opportunities Faculty and Staff Giving Policies Privacy SAGE Visit Us Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.