Jump to main content User menu Contact Us Press Room News Events Engage Conference Search form Search Main menu For Faculty Funding Opportunities Princeton Research Funding Gateway For Foundations For Industry Connecting Industry Across Campus Collaborate In Research Hire a Tiger Innovate with Technology Promote Entrepreneurship Corporate Affiliate Programs Core Facilities Partnership Stories Wire & Check Payment Instructions Research Funding Gateway Visit the Gateway Research With Princeton Visit Research With Princeton Research Discovery Initiatives New Jersey Smart Cities Working Group Drug Discovery Day Nov 2019 2019 RADD Posters and Core Facilities 2019 Regional Academic Drug Discovery Agenda Smart Cities Conference May 2019 Smart Cities May 2019 (Videos)--Building the Future: New Technological Frontiers in Cities Celebrate Princeton Innovation Celebrate Princeton Innovation 2019 Biomedical Data Science 2017 Home › For Industry Main menu: sub-menu items Connecting Industry Across Campus Collaborate In Research Hire a Tiger Innovate with Technology Promote Entrepreneurship Corporate Affiliate Programs Core Facilities Partnership Stories Wire & Check Payment Instructions For Industry Princeton University Corporate Engagement Team. L-R, Chip Hay; Spencer Reynolds; Coleen Burrus, Director; Tracy Meyer; Dean R. Edelman. (Photo credit: David Kelly Crow) Princeton’s Corporate Engagement team works with industry to develop research collaborations that accelerate innovation and are mutually beneficial to the University and the company. We facilitate relationships across campus that promote the educational, scientific, and scholarly mission of the University. And we help companies explore the considerable engagement opportunities with faculty and students at Princeton. Connecting Industry Across Campus Connecting Industry Across Campus Let’s open the gates to innovation together. Contact the Corporate Engagement team to learn how your business can work with Princeton research. Read more > Partnership Stories Partnership Stories CEFR is committed to building strong and significant relationships between Princeton and its partners. Read more > Research With Princeton Database Research With Princeton Database ResearchWith.Princeton.edu, a public, searchable database, helps prospective collaborators discover relevant research at Princeton University. Read more > Industry Collaboration News View All News Our COVID-19 vaccines would not exist without this unsung Princeton technology Monday, May 2, 2022 It might not look like much — a plastic box that fits in the hand, with tiny tubes jutting out the top and bottom. Too simple to be cutting edge... Read more > Materials symposium highlighted research and industry cooperation Tuesday, Apr 19, 2022 Speakers and panelists at this year’s Princeton Institute of Materials symposium spanned the wide... Read more > HAX accelerator chose Newark headquarters location for proximity to top universities like Princeton Tuesday, Apr 5, 2022 In June, the celebrated business accelerator HAX is slated to open its new U.S. headquarters in Newark, New Jersey... Read more > A Princeton-Microsoft project is tracing the digital fingerprints of disinformation Friday, Apr 1, 2022 As the 2018 U.S. Read more > Princeton University Office of Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations 5th Floor New South Princeton, NJ 08544 609-258-5954 Payment Instructions: Wires & Checks Secondary menu Office of the Dean for Research Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations Laboratory Animal Resources Princeton Entrepreneurship Council Research and Project Administration Research Integrity and Assurance Technology Licensing LinkedIn Twitter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University