Jump to main content User menu Contact Us Press Room News Events Engage Conference Search form Search Main menu For Faculty Funding Opportunities Princeton Research Funding Gateway For Foundations For Industry Connecting Industry Across Campus Collaborate In Research Hire a Tiger Innovate with Technology Promote Entrepreneurship Corporate Affiliate Programs Core Facilities Partnership Stories Wire & Check Payment Instructions Research Funding Gateway Visit the Gateway Research With Princeton Visit Research With Princeton Research Discovery Initiatives New Jersey Smart Cities Working Group Drug Discovery Day Nov 2019 2019 RADD Posters and Core Facilities 2019 Regional Academic Drug Discovery Agenda Smart Cities Conference May 2019 Smart Cities May 2019 (Videos)--Building the Future: New Technological Frontiers in Cities Celebrate Princeton Innovation Celebrate Princeton Innovation 2019 Biomedical Data Science 2017 Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations Open The Gates To Innovation What We Do The Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations team builds collaborations with companies and foundations to support strategic, catalytic, and capacity-building programs and research across all academic areas. CEFR is part of the Office of the Dean for Research. Contact us. L-R: Benjamin Kim; Vineeta Bhardwaj; Kelly Freidenfelds; Michael Hodges; Tracy Meyer; Coleen Burrus, Director; Richard (Chip) Hay Jr.; Jessica Pilotti; Spencer Reynolds; Rajiv Hota; Jill Jahn; Dean R. Edelman. (Photo credit: David Kelly Crow) Collaborate In Research Collaborate In Research CEFR fosters collaboration between industry and Princeton faculty researchers. Read more > Funding Opportunities Funding Opportunities CEFR assists faculty in the identification of funding opportunities from multiple sources. Read more > Research With Princeton Database Research With Princeton Database ResearchWith.Princeton.edu, a public, searchable database, helps prospective collaborators discover relevant research at Princeton University. Read more > Upcoming Events Now on Demand - Engage 2021: Princeton's Innovation and Entrepreneurship Conference Dec 1 Now on Demand - Engage 2021: Princeton's Innovation and Entrepreneurship Conference Wed, Dec 1, 2021 (All day) to Fri, Dec 2, 2022 (All day) WATCH ON DEMAND: Princeton... Location: On-demand recordings of Dec. conference now available. Read more > View All Events Featured News & Posts Craig B. Arnold appointed vice dean for innovation Tuesday, May 10, 2022 Read more > Princeton partners with UNCF and HBCUs to expand research and innovation Wednesday, May 4, 2022 Read more > Tech privacy expert Arvind Narayanan to lead Center for Information Technology Policy Monday, May 2, 2022 Read more > Harry Shapiro’s senior thesis has revealed new ways to cut carbon emissions on Princeton’s campus Monday, May 2, 2022 Read more > Yibin Kang highlights importance of immigrant scientists in Princeton's Year of the Tiger series Monday, May 2, 2022 Read more > View All News | More RSS feeds Tweets by PrincetonCEFR Princeton University Office of Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations 5th Floor New South Princeton, NJ 08544 609-258-5954 Payment Instructions: Wires & Checks Secondary menu Office of the Dean for Research Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations Laboratory Animal Resources Princeton Entrepreneurship Council Research and Project Administration Research Integrity and Assurance Technology Licensing LinkedIn Twitter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University