Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Centennial Campus Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Full Site Navigation Visit Centennial Campus is a destination for everyone — close by, ready for business and open to all. Open to the Public Centennial Campus is a resource for everyone, from local residents to leading researchers from around the world. Located in downtown Raleigh, North Carolina — one of the fastest-growing cities in the U.S. — we’re an invaluable destination for the entire Research Triangle community, open to everyone who wants a glimpse of what’s next. We’re walking distance from the rest of the NC State University campus and minutes away from Raleigh-Durham International Airport. Use the map below to explore Centennial Campus and discover everything we have to offer. Search Filter Back to Results Website Directions Transportation and Parking Centennial Campus is served by NC State’s year-round Wolfline bus service. The campus offers a number of parking decks and metered parking along the street that are open 24 hours a day. Most parking is available to the public outside business hours (8 a.m. to 5 p.m.) unless otherwise posted. For more information, visit the NC State Transportation visitor parking page. Hunt Library Hunt Library The award-winning James B. Hunt Jr. Library is open every day of the week, and most library events and programming — including AV Geeks, Coffee and Viz and State of Sound — are free and available to the public. A valid Wolfpack One Card is required to enter the library after 10 p.m., or during Reading Days or Final Exam periods. For more information, explore the NC State University Libraries visitor guidelines. Lake Raleigh Lake Raleigh Lake Raleigh and its trails are open to the public from dawn until dusk. Paid parking is available at the nearby Poulton lot on Partners Way from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday to Friday. At any other time, free parking on campus is open to the public. After 5 p.m. and all day on weekends, public parking can also be found right in front of the lake. Walks, picnics, disc golf and non-motorized boating and watersports are available. All are welcome to the outdoor Cinema Series every Friday in the fall, and the Live at Lake Raleigh concert series every Thursday in the spring. Lonnie Poole Golf Course Lonnie Poole Golf Course Voted the best golf course in Raleigh by readers of the News & Observer, the Lonnie Poole Golf Course is open to NC State alumni, Centennial Campus visitors and the public alike. The general public — and NC State students, staff and faculty — may book tee times up to seven days in advance. The venue is also available to reserve for private events. Park Alumni Center Park Alumni Center The Dorothy and Roy Park Alumni Center is the on-campus destination for reunions, weddings, receptions, parties and seminars. The center is home to the NC State Alumni Association, which is always seeking new members. You’ll also find seasoned on-site event coordinators ready to help organize everything from wedding ceremonies to business and social events. StateView Hotel and Conference Center StateView Hotel and Conference Center With more than 8,000 square feet of indoor meeting space and immediate access to the rest of Centennial Campus, this luxury hotel is ideally situated for corporate retreats, Raleigh vacations and other events. Parking outside the hotel is free to visitors. Learn more about booking the venue for your next event on the StateView website. A Place to Thrive Centennial Campus is an award-winning research park and academic community, but it's also a venue for lake walks, golfing, movie nights and more. We host experiences for the whole family to enjoy, from first-rate lecture series to food truck rodeos. Start exploring Raleigh's Intellectual Capital Centennial Campus is a global hub for education, innovation and public-private partnership — and a vital piece of one of the nation’s top public universities: NC State. Centennial is a place for the thinkers and doers of Raleigh to live, work and learn in an environment that’s unique to the Triangle. It’s a proving ground for new ideas and new businesses. And it’s vital to our university’s mission: creating prosperity across our state and nation. Whoever you are, we can’t wait to welcome you here. Next Steps Partner From top multinationals to boutique startups, everyone wants to work with us — and we want to work with you. Research Centennial was built to share the fruits of discovery with the wider world, and that mission drives everything we do. Learn We're home to lifelong learners of every kind, from K-12 to some of the world's leading experts in emerging fields. Live and Work If you love it here, you may never have to leave; we've got housing options and career opportunities for everyone. Centennial Campus NC State Home Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Events Free Speech Jobs Lease Space News Newsletter Privacy University Policies Zoning Centennial Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.