Toggle Navigation Menu Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Full Site Navigation Centennial Campus G Welcome to one of the premier research parks in North America — uniting NC State University students and faculty, national and international partners, and the wider community of Raleigh, North Carolina. CORONAVIRUS INFORMATION: NC State remains open with adjusted on-campus operations, which may affect Centennial Campus partners and community members. Learn more The Partner of Choice Centennial Campus is home to some of the brightest minds from industry, government and the academy. Together, we've built a bustling hub for innovation — and a launchpad for the next big thing. Join forces with us 70+ Industry, Government and Nonprofit Partners 75 University Centers, Institutes and Departments 190+ Startup Companies Launched An Experience for Everyone Trail walks, water sports, food trucks and movie nights. Live concerts, a best-in-class golf course and one of the world's most-awarded libraries. All of it open to the public. Centennial Campus is a vital part of the Research Triangle community, and everyone is welcome here. Discover your campus What's Happening More News No. 2 Nationally for Tech Transfer A new report by Heartland Forward ranks NC State among the best public universities in the country at commercialization. Learn more Seed Funding Speeds Startup's Growth Three years ago, TreeCo received support from the Chancellor’s Innovation Fund. Now, the startup is thriving on Centennial. Get the details A Hub for Entrepreneurs NC State was ranked No. 1 in the Southeast for both undergraduate and graduate entrepreneurship education programs by the Princeton Review. See how we spark innovation A Research Heavyweight NC State is one of the top public research universities in the United States, and that success is backed by the private sector. On Centennial, we've created a world-class research environment for our faculty and partners — and a worldwide reputation for bringing ideas to market. Dig into the work we do #7 for Industry Expenditures Among Public Institutions Without a Medical School Learning and Discovery Unlike other university research parks, Centennial Campus is essential to academic life at NC State. It's home to multiple colleges, graduate education, K-12 and online learning, and more. There's a wellspring of emerging talent here, ready to get to work. Explore what we offer A Living, Working Community Centennial Campus isn't just cutting-edge labs and academic facilities; it also has condos, townhouses and student residences, as well as dozens of private, public and nonprofit partners. No matter who you are, you can make a home here — and build a career. Get started Upcoming Events University Calendar More Events May31 Tuesday12:15 PM May 31, 2022: Free Yoga at Research Building IV Jun7 Tuesday12:15 PM Jun 7, 2022: Free Yoga at Research Building IV Jun8 Wednesday12:00 PM Jun 8, 2022: Centennial Visioneers: Toastmasters Jun14 Tuesday12:15 PM Jun 14, 2022: Free Yoga at Research Building IV Contact Us Want to learn more about Centennial Campus and all that you'll think and do here? Get in touch Centennial Campus NC State Home Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Events Free Speech Jobs Lease Space News Newsletter Privacy University Policies Zoning Centennial Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.