Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Centennial Campus Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Full Site Navigation Real Estate With more than 5 million square feet of commercial space, there's a place for you on Centennial Campus. Be Here Centennial Campus is home to 75 businesses, including innovators, entrepreneurs and industry leaders. Prospective tenants and partners will find a variety of office space available and the University Real Estate and Development Office is happy to help you determine which of our buildings will work best for you. Please reach out to us if you’re interested in making Centennial your company’s new home. Contact us for more information University Owned Buildings University-Managed Buildings NC State manages 450,000 square feet of office space on Centennial with a multitude of space options. The proximity to the university's talent and resources make our buildings desirable for any business looking to thrive in an innovative academic environment. Raleigh Founded Raleigh Founded is a dynamic coworking space in the heart of Centennial Campus. Its 20,000 square feet boasts office space, meeting rooms, flexible seating, and a bar and cafe. It is home to the Entrepreneurship Garage, where NC State students explore their entrepreneurial ideas and interests alongside industry partners. Privately Owned Buildings Alliance Center Alliance Center is home to five stories and more than 145,000 square feet of Class A office space. Alliance has an outdoor plaza with seating and a unique architectural feature known as “The Cube.” The Cube provides dramatic views from an active corner of Centennial Campus. Venture Center Venture Center is comprised of five buildings and 475,000 square feet of high-tech facilities and multifunctional office, lab and classroom space. With $1 billion in building and infrastructure investment, Venture Center provides a space for industry, government and academics to convene in thought leadership and innovation. Biomedical Partnership Center The Biomedical Partnership Center has approximately 2,435 square feet of customized lab and office space on NC State’s Centennial Biomedical Campus. Home to one of the top-ranked veterinary schools in the nation, industry partners have access to collaborative research opportunities with top NC State talent. Keystone Science Center Keystone Science Center has more than 78,000 square feet of Class A office and lab space. Home to a diverse mix of businesses, institutes and centers, Keystone is a hub for research and development on Centennial Campus. Center for Technology and Innovation (CTI) CTI has approximately 110,000 square feet of office, R&D lab and industrial space. The LEED Silver building has its own four-level parking deck that has a bridge on the second floor connecting the building. CTI houses both industry and academics, featuring the Nonwovens Institute, a world leader in the textile nonwoven-fabric industry. Centennial Campus NC State Home Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Events Free Speech Jobs Lease Space News Newsletter Privacy University Policies Zoning Centennial Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.