Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Centennial Campus Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Full Site Navigation Research Centennial Campus is a hothouse for innovation within NC State, and one of the premier research campuses in North America. A Community of Thinkers and Doers Centennial Campus is a leading research park with an essential difference: proximity to talent. Unlike other university research campuses, we’re inseparable from the university we serve — and from the wider Research Triangle. We’re home to key NC State academic units, to labs, companies, core facilities, amenities and one of the world’s most advanced libraries. Students, faculty, university staff, and corporate and public-sector partners rub shoulders and cross paths as part of a vibrant community. NC State is a national research powerhouse renowned for its real-world focus and its success in partnering with industry and government. We excel at both basic and applied research — at breaking new ground and bringing new products to market. Research at NC State Research and Innovation Explore the Office of Research and Innovation, the driving force behind the university's research mission. Strategic Research Areas Discover the five areas that define NC State's research focus — and how we engage with the wider world. Commercialization Learn about NC State's ongoing success in moving research and discovery from the lab to the marketplace. Research That Gets Results Our digital magazine, Results, tells the stories of research and innovation at NC State — and shows the impact we have on local, national and global communities. Discover what we do A World-Class Research Environment Centennial Campus houses leading-edge facilities and laboratories for engineering, agriculture and life sciences, and textiles, as well as a host of acclaimed centers and institutes. The Office of Research and Innovation also oversees six Shared Core Research Facilities that offer cutting-edge equipment and instrumentation — as well as project consultation and hands-on training. Half of these core facilities are physically located on Centennial. NC State is one vertex in the Research Triangle, maintaining close ties to UNC Chapel Hill and Duke University. We’re also close to a host of other universities in North Carolina and along the Eastern Seaboard, as well as Washington, D.C. and nearby government agencies. Centers and Institutes FREEDM We're building the smart electric grid of tomorrow at one of our two NSF Engineering Research Centers. ASSIST We're developing wearable electronics and sensors that provide essential insights — and even save lives. Nonwovens Institute We're home to to the world's first accredited academic program for the emerging field of engineered fabrics. PowerAmerica We're advancing wide bandgap semiconductors to power innovation in American manufacturing. IBM Q Hub We're the first university in North America to host a hub for IBM's efforts in quantum computing — a $15 billion industry. Data Science Initiative We coordinate a wealth of strong data science programs, initiatives and activities across NC State. #7 for Industry Expenditures Among public universities without a medical school, NC State leads in research sponsored by the private sector. See more facts and figures A Home for Top Researchers — and Emerging Talent New and established faculty from around the world are attracted to NC State’s top-tier research enterprise. Centennial Campus offers opportunities to engage with a wealth of minds tackling the world’s most pressing problems — and it fosters collaboration between faculty, student talent, government agencies and the best in business. NC State is renowned for its cross-disciplinary approach. Nature ranks us among the top contributors to highly collaborative journal publications and our interdisciplinary faculty cluster program is held up as a national model. Within North Carolina, we’re the flagship university for startups and entrepreneurship. In 2018, 28 startups and spinoffs launched from the UNC System — and 21 of them came from NC State. We’re known for our excellence in turning new ideas into products and services, and our flexible approach makes things straightforward for researchers and partners alike. Next Steps Partner Learn why Centennial Campus is a national hub for public-private partnership. Learn Discover the unique academic community being fostered on Centennial. Live and Work Explore the housing options and career opportunities available at NC State. Centennial Campus NC State Home Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Events Free Speech Jobs Lease Space News Newsletter Privacy University Policies Zoning Centennial Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.