Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Centennial Campus Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Full Site Navigation Live and Work Centennial Campus is a place where innovation lives and works, where you can find a home and launch your career. Live Here If you’re looking for a vibrant, convenient and unique community to call home, you’ll find it on Centennial Campus. Our residential communities offer a variety of housing options for everyone, with easy access to campus resources, events and amenities. Living here means you can get to everywhere else you want to be, too — Downtown Raleigh, I-40 and I-440, Raleigh-Durham International Airport, Research Triangle Park and other vibrant Triangle-area destinations. It also means you can get away from everything: Lake Raleigh, the Capital Area Greenway trails, Dorothea Dix Park and other green spaces are right at your doorstep. My family loved the community events held on Centennial Campus this year, especially Live @ Lake Raleigh and the movie series. —Rebecca M., Centennial resident Residential Options The Greens at Centennial This apartment community for working professionals offers luxury studio and one- and two-bedroom layouts. North Shore North Shore is a private townhome complex adjacent to Lake Raleigh and the Lonnie Poole Golf Course. Wolf Ridge Apartments Wolf Ridge is a Silver LEED-certified apartment complex for NC State upper-class and graduate students. LakeShore Raleigh This 44-unit condo community under construction on Centennial will offer studio and one- and two-bedroom layouts. The StateView Hotel Whether you’re visiting NC State's campus for business, graduation or homecoming, you want to be close to it all. This Centennial Campus hotel offers modern accommodations in a convenient location. Check in Work Here Centennial Campus is a place for thinkers and doers to advance their industries — and the world. Here, industry-leading software engineers, scientists, climatologists, academics, engineers and many others work in cutting-edge facilities to develop innovative solutions to global challenges. And they seek the best and brightest minds to help them do it. Whether you’re a student seeking an internship or a seasoned professional seeking career advancement, this is a place for change makers, learners and explorers. We’re home to large corporations, small businesses and everything in between. If you’re on your own, you can even try our coworking spaces. The next step in your career could be right here. 5.1 Million Square Feet Centennial Campus boasts vast innovation space for co-located partners and their employees. Lease space Job Opportunities Innovators abound on Centennial Campus, which is home industry, government and nonprofit partners with thousands of employees. Explore current internship opportunities and job openings at these leading employers. Browse job openings Host an Event A variety of spaces are available on Centennial Campus for meetings, events, conferences and more. Discover some of your options below. Hunt Library: To reserve the Duke Energy Center, call 919.51.EVENT or visit studentcenters.ncsu.edu/events for details. Other spaces within the Hunt Library are available to NC State students and staff only. Lonnie Poole Golf Course: Classroom, dining/social, golf and patio space are available. Visit lonniepoolegolfcourse.com or call 919.51.EVENT. Park Alumni Center: Ballroom, classroom, dining/social and patio space are available. Visit the center’s webpage or call 919.51.EVENT. On the Oval: Private dining space is available for up to 20 guests. Call 919.395.0479 to reserve this space. StateView Hotel and Conference Center: 8,000 square feet of conference and meeting space is available. Visit stateviewhotel.com to get started. Next Steps Thrive Learn about the amenities and activities that make Centennial a place for everyone. Partner Discover our industry and government partnerships and how you can join us. Visit To see for yourself all that Centennial has to offer, plan your visit to our campus. Centennial Campus NC State Home Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Events Free Speech Jobs Lease Space News Newsletter Privacy University Policies Zoning Centennial Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.