Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Centennial Campus Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Full Site Navigation Learn Centennial Campus is a bustling hub for education and learning at NC State — and it's essential to the university's academic mission. The Forefront of Higher Education As one of the leading public land-grant universities in the United States, NC State’s mission is to make the fruits of learning and discovery available to everyone. And Centennial Campus is key to that mission. Unlike conventional research or business parks, Centennial is inseparable from academic life at NC State. It unites students, faculty and industry partners who want to spark ideas, forge connections and unlock new solutions. Together, they’ve built a place for lifelong learning — and a launchpad for NC State’s second century. The Library of Tomorrow Home to collaborative spaces, experiential learning and a robotic book delivery system, the James B. Hunt Jr. Library has won national and international awards for its stunning design. It's a place for students and the public alike to think and do — and thrive. Start exploring Campus, Continued From the beginning, Centennial Campus has housed a wealth of NC State academic units, institutes and centers, including the nationally renowned College of Engineering and Wilson College of Textiles. Nearby, the 250-acre Centennial Biomedical Campus boasts the College of Veterinary Medicine, one of the top-ranked in the nation. Whether you’re a prospective undergraduate or graduate student, a distance or online learner, a budding entrepreneur, or just someone who’s excited to surround yourself with new ideas, Centennial was built to serve you. Colleges and Units College of Engineering Centennial Campus is home to one of the world's finest engineering colleges, a cornerstone of education and research for NC State and the entire Southeast. Wilson College of Textiles NC State's second named college is the only one of its kind in the nation: a powerhouse of leading-edge textiles education that nurtures state and national industries. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences The world-leading Plant Sciences Initiative — tasked with growing and securing the future of agriculture — is located in the heart of Centennial Campus. Graduate School NC State boasts more than 200 graduate programs and some 10,000 graduate students. Centennial Campus hosts the unit that serves and supports them. Digital and Online Learning Centennial Campus houses Digital Education and Learning Technology Applications, the unit that makes an NC State education available to learners everywhere. Continuing Education Right on Centennial's doorstep, the McKimmon Center for Extension and Continuing Education is a gateway to the vast intellectual resources of NC State. An Academic Community Learning doesn’t start with a bachelor’s degree, and it doesn’t stop at graduation. Centennial Campus supplies education for every stage of life. From extensive K-12 programming to Centennial Campus Magnet Middle School and Wake STEM Early College High School, Centennial Campus supports and serves precollegiate students. It also hosts the William and Ida Friday Institute for Educational Innovation, a key center for statewide research and outreach within the College of Education. Lifelong learners can take advantage of executive education and organizational learning opportunities led by experts in computer science, statistics, management and more. And our co-located partners routinely discover workforce development opportunities through External Affairs, Partnerships and Economic Development. Entrepreneurship NC State boasts one of the leading undergraduate entrepreneurship ecosystems in the United States, ranked in the top ten by the Princeton Review. Centennial offers a wealth of programs and resources to help you get started. Launch your idea 75 University Centers, Institutes and Departments A wealth of colleges and other academic units call Centennial Campus home. Explore NC State's strengths Next Steps Visit Centennial Campus See our innovative academic environment for yourself. Find Job Opportunities Browse internship and co-op positions with our Centennial partners. Apply to NC State Run with the Wolfpack — and join the Centennial community. Centennial Campus NC State Home Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Events Free Speech Jobs Lease Space News Newsletter Privacy University Policies Zoning Centennial Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.