Skip to main content Visit Apply Donate TUPortal Search Center City Center City Academics Adult Learners Graduate Undergraduate Student Information Multimedia Urban Reporting Lab The Pennsylvania Innocence Project Professional Development Real Estate Institute Executive Leadership Education Programs & Certificates Personal Enrichment Music Preparatory Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Learning Lab Summer Camps Services Room Rentals Corporate Training About News Getting Here Teaching Here Campus Safety Building Directory Bookstore Contact Us University College Course Grant ≡ Menu Academics Adult Learners Graduate Undergraduate Student Information Multimedia Urban Reporting Lab The Pennsylvania Innocence Project Professional Development Real Estate Institute Executive Leadership Education Programs & Certificates Personal Enrichment Music Preparatory Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Learning Lab Summer Camps Services Room Rentals Corporate Training About News Getting Here Teaching Here Campus Safety Building Directory Bookstore Contact Us University College Course Grant Home > About > Getting Here Getting Here The Temple University Center City (TUCC) campus is located at 1515 Market Street. It is easily accessible by transit with several buses that conveniently make stops within one block of the campus, and suburban and commuter rails as well as PATCO High Speed Lines from New Jersey that all stop within four blocks of the campus. Download a Campus Map. Public Transportation Broad Street Subway: Local and express trains stop at City Hall. Market-Frankford Elevated: Stops at 15th Street. Buses The following buses make stops within one block of the TUCC location at 1515 Market Street: 4 Bus 16 Bus 17 Bus 33 Bus 38 Bus 48 Bus SEPTA Regional High Speed Lines (Call SEPTA Information Center at 215-580-7800 for route information.) All suburban and commuter line trains stop at Suburban Station, located at 16th Street and J.F.K. Boulevard. Exit to 16th Street; walk South to Market Street and east to 15th Street. PATCO Hi-Speed Lines from New Jersey Ride to last Center City Philadelphia stop, 15th/16th and Locust Street. Exit above ground and walk 4 blocks to Market Street. Driving Directions Parking As a service to our students, TUCC has negotiated discount parking rates at nearby locations. TUCC has no business relationship with these parking companies and does not play any role in making their policies. The discount rate is only available to Temple University students and faculty. Parking validation is available at the security desk in the ground floor lobby area of TUCC during the following hours: Monday - Thursday: 3:00 PM to 10:15 PM. Friday: 3:00 PM - 9:00 PM Saturday: 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM Parkway Parking at 1500 Market Street (Centre Square building) (entrance on 16th Street near Ranstead Street) 215-399-2799 Evenings: M - F $6 after 3:00 PM (must exit by midnight) Weekends: $6 for up to 12 hours (must exit by midnight) SPPlus Parking at 1501 John F Kennedy Blvd (Love Park Garage) Evenings: M - F $8 after 4:00 PM (must exit by midnight) Weekends: $8 for up to 12 hours (must exit by midnight) Bicycles Several bicycle racks are available for student use on the 15th Street and plaza sides of the building. Bicycles are NOT permitted in the building. Bicycle locks are available for purchase at the TUCC bookstore. News Getting Here Teaching Here Campus Safety Building Directory Bookstore Contact Us University College Course Grant TEMPLE UNIVERSITY Center City 1515 Market Street Suite 215 Philadelphia, PA 19102 Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Quick Links: TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers At Temple Copyright , Temple University. All rights reserved. Designed and developed by Web Communications.