Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Centennial Campus Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Full Site Navigation Partner Centennial Campus is a launchpad for new solutions — and new ventures, new jobs and prosperity for all. The University Partner of Choice At NC State, we know the modern university can’t afford to be an ivory tower. That’s why everything we do works to improve the lives of everyday people. On our Centennial Campus, we invite leading industry, government and nonprofit partners to join us in that mission. They come here — or work with us remotely — because Centennial is an unbeatable environment for innovation and entrepreneurship, fully embedded in the academic life of NC State. And because we’re nimble, straightforward and understand their needs. Welcome to a proving ground like no other: 70 partners call Centennial Campus home 5,600 employees work at those companies 1,500 students hired as interns or full-time employees by Centennial partners 70% of our partners come from industry 16,000 people cross Centennial Campus each day Partner With NC State Partnership Portal Connect with faculty researchers and partnerships staff via our online tool. Partners Directory Browse a listing of our existing public, private and nonprofit campus partners. Partner Benefits View the resources, benefits and amenities available to Centennial Campus partners. Creating a Sustainable Future Long-standing collaborations between NC State and leading chemical company BASF have resulted in more than 100 research projects focused on plant sciences innovation, crop protection and bringing new solutions to market. A growing partnership Why Partner With NC State? Centennial Campus offers an extraordinary value proposition to our partners: proximity to talent, technology and the entire East Coast. NC State is the largest university in a four-state region, and one of the nation’s pre-eminent research enterprises. We’re experts in everything from big data to self-powered health monitoring to nuclear nonproliferation and advanced manufacturing. When you work with us, you gain access to established and emerging talent — and to smart, efficient research and development opportunities in world-class facilities. We’re a national leader in commercialization that can get your idea off the ground and help bring it to market. Case Studies Mann+Hummel The global filtration company works with researchers and students to develop new products through NC State's Nonwovens Institute. Watch video Intuitive Surgical With its innovation center based on Centennial, Intuitive Surgical developers robotic-assisted technologies to improve patient outcomes. Watch video $6.5 Billion Each year, NC State adds $6.5 billion to the statewide economy, equivalent to creating more than 90,000 new jobs. See how we support our state North Carolina's Economic Engine Centennial Campus draws millions of outside dollars to North Carolina each year. As industry and government partners invest here, those funds pay dividends to the state in the form of jobs, business income and tax revenue. And as Centennial’s reputation grows, so does the value of an NC State degree for our more than 220,000 living alumni. Each year, leaders from around 50 universities and municipalities tour the campus so they can learn from its success in fueling local economies. And Centennial is a global name, too. From the world’s largest biomanufacturing education center to a pioneering nonwoven textile research institute, Centennial puts North Carolina on the international map. Most of the companies and initiatives on Centennial Campus have a direct impact on the lives of citizens across the state — from shaping the future of agriculture to revolutionizing refrigeration in rural hospitals. Next Steps Visit Explore one of North America's leading hubs for public-private partnership. Research Discover the nationally acclaimed research powerhouse that is NC State. Live and Work Explore the housing options and career opportunities available on Centennial. Centennial Newsletter Sign up to get the latest updates on innovation coming out of our campus. Centennial Campus NC State Home Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Events Free Speech Jobs Lease Space News Newsletter Privacy University Policies Zoning Centennial Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.