Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Center for Justice Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Projects News Events Research Get Involved Mission & Background Our Team How We Work Supporters Donate Contact Arts and Justice The Confined Arts Beyond the Bars Beyond the Bars Conference Beyond the Bars Fellowship Collaborative Change for Justice Inside Criminal Justice Justice Ambassadors Justice Beyond the Punishment Pardigm Parole and Long Sentences Restorative Justice The Justice Beyond Punishment Collaborative Justice in Education JIE Scholars Prison Education Project Justice Through Code Roma People's Project Women Transcending Collective Leadership Institute Oral History Project Public Programming Center for Justice Geraldine Downey Staff Director, Center for Justice; Robert Johnston Niven Professor of Humane Letters in Psychology – Columbia University. Dr. Downey has worked on and taught about issues related to incarceration since the 1970s. This work included a study of the first cohort of youth placed on probation in Ireland, co-directing a Mother-Child Visitation at Huron Valley Correctional Facility, Michigan, and teaching in several prison college programs, including Sing Sing, Bedford Hills and Taconic Correctional Facilities in NYS. Professor Downey has been chair of the Columbia Psychology Department, Vice-Provost for Diversity Initiatives, Vice-Dean of Arts and Sciences, and Dean of Social Sciences. She is a member of the Faculty Working Group of the Atlantic Fellows for Racial Equity, the Faculty Steering Committee of the Holder Initiative for Civil and Political Rights, and the University Task Force on Just Societies. She is a recipient of the American Psychological Association Mentor Award. Her work on the causes and consequences of social exclusion and rejection is internationally recognized and she has received funding from NIMH, the Guggenheim Foundation, the Russell Sage Foundation, and the W.T. Grant Foundation. She is currently studying how identities of hope (e.g., the student identity) can transform the narrative about people deemed rejectable (e.g., people with a criminal conviction). For Geraldine’s talk on education in prison see: Geraldine Downey’s Talk for Why Education Matters: [email protected]. Geraldine Downey Niven Professor of Humane Letters, Department of Psychology My Contact Info 406 Schermerhorn, United States [email protected] Center for Justice at Columbia University 1190 Amsterdam Avenue, 219 Schermerhorn Hall · New York, NY 10027 Center for Justice at Columbia School of Social Work1255 Amsterdam Avenue, Room 828 · New York, NY 10027 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close