Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Centennial Campus Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Visit Partner Research Learn Live and Work Thrive News Contact Coronavirus Update Full Site Navigation Thrive Centennial Campus is for everyone — a destination for innovation, adventure, learning, relaxation, exploration and fun. A Vibrant Destination Centennial Campus is a growing community where everything you love comes together. Alongside state-of-the-art academic and office facilities, you’ll find walking trails, a championship golf course, restaurants, condos and apartments, a luxury hotel and wide-open public spaces, all nestled around beautiful Lake Raleigh. We’re a place for students, faculty and 9-to-5 employees — and a place for families, retirees, young professionals and everyone else. With year-round events and programming — including outdoor movies and concerts, food truck rodeos, research talks, races and outdoor skills classes — every visit is different, and you’ll find plenty of ways to thrive here. What will you do on Centennial? Hike our five-plus miles of lakeside trails. Tee off at the acclaimed Arnold Palmer-designed Lonnie Poole Golf Course. Enjoy a family-friendly movie or concert under the stars. Sweat it out in a yoga or Zumba class. Find your favorite food truck for lunch. Attend a talk at the state-of-the-art Hunt Library. Kayak on beautiful Lake Raleigh. Savor a meal or a drink at the StateView Hotel. T 1 of 8 A Visit Lake Raleigh Escape from the hustle and bustle of everyday life at Lake Raleigh. Open to the public, this expansive recreation area offers endless opportunities for outdoor exploration — including fishing piers, boating, disc golf and miles of walking trails. A breath of fresh air Where You Want to Be If you want to be in the middle of it all — without feeling like you’re in the middle of it all — come to Centennial. We’re an urban oasis close to everything Raleigh has to offer, including the city’s vibrant downtown, Raleigh-Durham International Airport, Dorothea Dix Park, the State Farmers Market and major highways. And we’re minutes away from all the beloved landmarks, academic buildings, athletic facilities and other amenities on the rest of NC State’s campus. You may discover you like it here so much that you never want to leave. If so, you can make one of our corporate partners or office spaces your work home. Or you can make one of our apartment, townhome or condo communities your next home sweet home. What's Happening More Events Jun08 Wednesday 4:00 PM Centennial Visioneers: Toastmasters Jun22 Wednesday 4:00 PM Centennial Visioneers: Toastmasters Jul13 Wednesday 4:00 PM Centennial Visioneers: Toastmasters 50+ Food Trucks Delicious food options abound all year long on Centennial. See what's coming Services on Centennial Centennial Campus features a variety of dining, retail, recreation and conference options. Explore a few of them below, and visit Campus Enterprises for more information about what NC State offers. Quick Dining Quick Dining The On the Oval food court at the Wolf Ridge apartment complex offers five restaurants with an assortment of food options. Port City Java has two locations at the College of Textiles and Engineering Building II, featuring coffee, smoothies and teas, as well as an array of pastries, sandwiches and wraps. The Common Grounds Cafe at Hunt Library features coffee and NC State’s famous Howling Cow ice cream. The Shuttle Inn at the College of Textiles offers grab-and-go snacks, frozen meals and other items. A variety of food trucks park in front of Venture II at lunchtime on weekdays. Retail and Recreation Retail and Recreation Centennial features a smaller version of the main campus Wolfpack Outfitters store, offering NC State apparel and gifts, school supplies, beverages and snacks. The Lonnie Poole Golf Course is the only collegiate golf course in the world designed by Arnold Palmer. Lonnie Poole Golf Course The only collegiate golf course in the world designed by the legendary Arnold Palmer, the Lonnie Poole Golf Course is consistently ranked as one of the best places to play golf, improve your game or host a tournament. Tee off Next Steps Live and Work Explore all of the inviting residential and commercial options available on Centennial Campus. Partner Discover opportunities to join forced with NC State and take part in the important work happening on Centennial. Sustainability Find out how we're helping our planet thrive with solar energy, green roofs, a bee apiary and other sustainable features. Event Space Get all the details on how you can host your next big event on Centennial Campus. Centennial Campus NC State Home Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Events Free Speech Jobs Lease Space News Newsletter Privacy University Policies Zoning Centennial Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.