Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Logo link to homepage Submit site search Site search Submit site search Site Navigation Menu Inventors Invention Disclosure & Assessment Licensing Inventor Involvement Technology Development Funding CDAs, MTAs, DUAs Honoring Innovation and Innovators Companies Technology Commercialization Sponsored Research Talent Executive Education Entrepreneurs Keenan Center for Entrepreneurship Investors Find a Startup About Technology Commercialization Corporate Partnerships Keenan Center for Entrepreneurship Economic Engagement Staff Directory Internships News & Events Ohio IP Promise CDA, MTA, DUA Access Inventor Access Submit an Idea Inventors Invention Disclosure & Assessment Licensing Licensing to an Existing Company Creating a Startup Inventor Involvement Technology Development Funding Accelerator Awards CDAs, MTAs, DUAs Honoring Innovation and Innovators Companies Technology Commercialization Find a Technology Sponsored Research Talent Executive Education Entrepreneurs Keenan Center for Entrepreneurship Investors Find a Startup About Technology Commercialization Corporate Partnerships Keenan Center for Entrepreneurship Economic Engagement Staff Directory Internships News & Events Ohio IP Promise CDA, MTA, DUA Access Inventor Access Submit an Idea You are here Home / Companies Home Companies We make it easy to engage The corporate partnerships team facilitates mutually-beneficial relationships to help advance the objectives of both the university and businesses. We are the front door for engagement with Ohio State. We keep the communication going in both directions, building meaningful collaborations between the right people across key engagement areas. Our Model of Engagement We provide holistic coordination and management of corporate relationships. Each relationship is unique and we’re here to help make the most impact for both the university and the company partner. Our team serves as a central point of coordination, connecting company partners to the right people and resources, finding innovative ways to engage with Ohio State’s top talent and resources. Why Ohio State? The university’s breadth, scope and excellence make Ohio State a leading force of education, innovation and change – locally, nationally, and globally. Ohio State is one of only a few universities in the U.S. that, in a single location, houses 15 different colleges, including seven health sciences colleges and a college of agriculture. Ohio State brings extensive tools to the table—creative minds, expertise, experience and world-class facilities. This enables us to discover innovative solutions to complex problems and to equip Buckeyes with the critical thinking, innovation and skills they need to drive change beyond Ohio State. Key Engagement Areas Talent Sponsored Research Technology Commercialization Executive Education Contact Us Not sure where to start or new to Ohio State? Let us know how you want to connect with the university and a member of our team will contact you. Contact Us Associate Vice President, Corporate Partnerships Co-Director, Honda-Ohio State Partnership Alissa Comella comella.3@osu.edu 614-292-7703 Director, Economic Development Colleen Gilger gilger.17@osu.edu 614-247-9501 Program Manager Ben Webb webb.392@osu.edu 614-688-1664 Program Manager Honda - Ohio State Partnership Emily Sandvik sandvik.3@osu.edu 614-292-8956 Talent & Career Services Consultant Julia Beckner beckner.18@osu.edu 614-292-2584 LinkedIn Profile Collaboration Analyst Todd Guttman guttman.6@osu.edu Corporate Partnerships Liaison Kelly Sitz sitz.4@osu.edu 614-292-5701 Senior Director, Corporate Partnerships Mike Wiseman wiseman.201@osu.edu LinkedIn Profile Corporate Partnerships Consultant Chris Peterson peterson.56@osu.edu Senior Liaison Strategic Partnerships Jeff Agnoli agnoli.1@osu.edu 614-292-6269 LinkedIn Profile Corporate Partnerships Liaison Christina Hayduchok hayduchok.1@osu.edu 614-247-1677 LinkedIn Profile News Learn more about Ohio State's risk management tool on 6/2 May 20, 2022 Drug developed by Ohio State Consortium shows promise in treating COVID-19 patients at high-risk for ARDS i... April 21, 2022 The drug was partially developed by James Dalton during his time at Ohio State and the intellectual property exclusively licensed on a global basis by Veru is own... View All Address Office of Innovation and Economic Development 1524 North High Street Columbus, OH 43201 Phone 614-292-1315 Fax 614-292-3658 Email corporateengagement@osu.edu Accessibility Feedback Sitemap Give to OSU © 2022. The Ohio State University