Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Geology Want to talk to a human? Are you a current OSU student? Schedule a one-on-one appointment with an academic advisor. Are you a future OSU student? Get in touch with the CEOAS Undergraduate Student Services Office: 104 Wilkinson Hall 541-737-1201 ceoas.undergrad@oregonstate.edu Come study geology in the land of Mount St. Helens, the Cascadia Subduction Zone, and the mighty Pacific Ocean! The study of geology can take you from mountaintops to the bottom of the ocean, from the study of cataclysmic supervolcano eruptions to the slow creep of tectonic plates, from millions of years in the past to forecasting the planet’s future. Whether you’re interested in mineral resources, earthquake hazards or geochemistry, the landscape can be your laboratory. Our geology major focuses on the Earth as an integrated system, and includes an emphasis on experiential learning. We can’t wait to welcome you! View our Programs Visit Campus Scholarships Undergraduate Research Explore the degree Geology Advising Worksheets Major (catalog year 2021-22 and beyond) Option (catalog year through 2021-22) Degree Learning Outcomes Each student will learn basic concepts in Earth Sciences in preparation for advanced training in the same. Areas include how the earth, ocean, and atmosphere work and interact. Each student will develop quantitative literacy in techniques specific to the major and option. Each student will learn applied practical skills in the discipline at a basic and advanced level through intensive experiential learning. Experiential Learning OSU Catalog Meet the faculty Our geologists rock! Meet our faculty. Meet the Program Head Frank Tepley. tepley_220x220.jpg Learn about careers A vibrant job market in geology reflects society's environmental concerns, needs for hazard mitigation, and world demand for resources including water, gas, oil and metals. Learn more about geology careers: Why Geology? Recent OSU geology graduates have gone on to be: Civil engineering specialist, Montana Department of Transportation Geologist, FEMA Field technician, GeoEngineers Inc. Ph.D. candidate, UC Davis Geologist, USGS Meet the CEOAS Career Advisor Contact Info CEOAS Oregon State University 104 CEOAS Admin. Bldg. Corvallis, OR 97331-5503 541-737-3504 Contact / Map Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Stories News Events Make a Gift