Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Geography and Geospatial Science Want to talk to a human? Are you a current OSU student? Schedule a one-on-one appointment with an academic advisor. Are you a future OSU student? Get in touch with the CEOAS Undergraduate Student Services Office: 104 Wilkinson Hall 541-737-1201 ceoas.undergrad@oregonstate.edu Is geography all about knowing state capitols and which is the largest lake in the world? (It’s the Caspian Sea, by the way.) No – it’s so much more! Geography is the study of Earth's environments, landscapes, people, and places. It includes natural science (physical geography), social science (human geography), and geospatial science (GIScience). Geographers collect, analyze, and display spatial information, and apply the concepts and theory of geography to explore social and environmental questions. Come explore all an undergraduate geography degree at Oregon State has to offer, either on campus or via Ecampus. View our Programs Visit Campus Scholarships Undergraduate Research Explore the degree How do I know if I want to be a geographer? Geography and Geospatial Science Advising Worksheets Degree Learning Outcomes Course syllabi GEOG 295 Field Course GEOG 495 Field Course Experiential Learning OSU Catalog Social Media Geography Facebook Meet the faculty Geography faculty at Oregon State study people, places, issues and environments. Meet the geography and geospatial science faculty. jones_julia_220x220.jpg Distinguished Professor and Program Head: Julia Jones Learn about careers As an Oregon State geography graduate, your career opportunities will be bright because you will be well-versed in issues concerning natural resources, the physical environment, land use planning and the latest computer mapping and analysis techniques. Recent Oregon State geography graduates are employed by federal, state and county agencies, consulting firms, private industry and non-profits. Why geography? Learn more about What Can You Do with a Geography Degree (PDF on Box and explore career resources from the American Association of Geographers. Meet the CEOAS Career Advisor fiona-wylde-starboard-sup_600x168.jpg Fiona Wylde Champion paddle boarder and wind surfer and Geography & Geospatial Science major wrathallcelltracks_600x168.jpg Following our footsteps Digital data can help track people during the pandemic, but David Wrathall’s experience shows that field work is critical for data interpretation. Contact Info CEOAS Oregon State University 104 CEOAS Admin. Bldg. Corvallis, OR 97331-5503 541-737-3504 Contact / Map Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Stories News Events Make a Gift