Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Environmental Sciences Undergraduate Program Want to talk to a human? Are you a current OSU student? Schedule a one-on-one appointment with an academic advisor. Are you a future OSU student? Get in touch with the CEOAS Undergraduate Student Services Office: 104 Wilkinson Hall 541-737-1201 ceoas.undergrad@oregonstate.edu We have only one planet, so if you’re interested in studies that will set you on a path toward understanding, preserving and protecting it, you’ve come to the right place. The Environmental Sciences degree builds on the interdisciplinary strengths in the natural and social sciences at OSU. You will learn broadly about environmental sciences from a variety of perspectives, while deeply exploring one area of specialization. Going beyond the classroom by getting into the field, lab or an internship is a key part of the program. You can pursue a major in Environmental Sciences on campus in Corvallis or at Cascades, or online through OSU Ecampus. You can also complete an Environmental Sciences minor in Corvallis or online through Ecampus. View our Programs Visit Campus Scholarships Undergraduate Research Explore the degree Environmental Sciences Advising Worksheets (including Areas of Specialization) Degree Learning Outcomes Students will… Identify and define concepts in the natural sciences (e.g. chemistry, atmospheric sciences, ecology, geology, oceanography, soil science). Identify and define concepts in the humanities and social sciences (e.g. economics, environmental law, ethics, resource policy, and human-environment interaction fields like agronomy and geography). Integrate concepts in the natural sciences with those in the humanities and social sciences. Demonstrate a rigorous cross-disciplinary science base (biological, physical, and social sciences) with a deeper knowledge in a specialization area by using the quantitative tools to analyze and interpret data. Communicate ideas clearly—orally, graphically, or in writing—to address environmental sciences issues. Engage in and experience the application of the environmental sciences beyond the classroom through fieldwork, participation in an internship, research, study abroad, or other forms of experiential learning. Experiential Learning OSU Catalog Program Review Highlights of 10-year program review Meet the faculty The Environmental Sciences program is highly interdisciplinary, which means you’ll work with and learn from faculty across the university and within diverse disciplines, including ecology, conservation, alternative energy, aquatic biology and environmental science education. beckerlc_220x220.jpg Program Head: Laurence C. Becker Learn about careers What Can I Do with My Major (PDF on Box) Many Oregon State Environmental Sciences majors go on to graduate programs in environmental science, geography, oceanography and more, while others enter the work force right away. Recent Oregon State Environmental Sciences majors are now employed at: National Energy Technology Laboratory, Department of Energy, Alaska Department of Fish and Game Orange County Public Works Chautaqua County Soil & Water Conservation District U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service Multnomah County Park Ranger, City of Portland American Airlines Meet the CEOAS Career Advisor Contact Info CEOAS Oregon State University 104 CEOAS Admin. Bldg. Corvallis, OR 97331-5503 541-737-3504 Contact / Map Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Stories News Events Make a Gift