Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Ocean Science (Earth Sciences) Want to talk to a human? Are you a current OSU student? Schedule a one-on-one appointment with an academic advisor. Are you a future OSU student? Get in touch with the CEOAS Undergraduate Student Services Office: 104 Wilkinson Hall 541-737-1201 ceoas.undergrad@oregonstate.edu Where did your passion for the ocean begin? Poking around in tide pools or surfing on the Oregon coast? Visiting an aquarium? Watching specials like “Blue Planet,” or maybe “Spongebob Squarepants?” More importantly, where will that passion take you next? Our oceanography program, ranked No. 3 in the world, can take you from coastal mangroves in the tropics to the ice-covered poles. Oceanographers study all aspects of the marine environment and how it interacts with and influences planet Earth including humankind. As an Ocean Science major at OSU you will be exposed to the tremendous breadth of the marine realm and the diverse ways scientists study it. Dive in! View our Programs Visit Campus Scholarships Undergraduate Research Explore the degree Oceanography Advising Worksheets Major (catalog year 2022-23 and beyond) Option (catalog year 2021-22) Degree Learning Outcomes Each student will learn basic concepts in Earth Sciences in preparation for advanced training in the same. Areas include how the earth, ocean, and atmosphere work and interact. Each student will develop quantitative literacy in techniques specific to the major and option. Each student will learn applied practical skills in the discipline at a basic and advanced level through intensive experiential learning. Experiential Learning OSU Catalog Meet the faculty Many of our world-renowned faculty teach undergraduate courses and love to host undergraduate researchers in their laboratories. Meet our Ocean Science Faculty. Byron Crump, Program Head crump_220x220.jpg Learn about careers What can you do with an oceanography degree? Our recent graduates are working for research institutions, not-for-profit organizations, universities, businesses, governments and more, and many have gone on to grad school. A few recent job titles our graduates have held: Conservation Science Associate, Reef Environmental Education Foundation Research Fellow, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Grants Manager, Public Works Watershed Restoration Research Associate, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Additional information on career opportunities in oceanography: What Can I Do with an OSU Oceanography Degree? Meet the CEOAS Career Advisor An Ocean of Possibilities! Careers related to the ocean and aquatic sciences A Sea Grant Guide to Ocean Opportunities Centers for Ocean Sciences Education Excellence (COSEE) Pathways to Ocean Science Hopkins Marine Station guide to marine careers dsc_7274_600x168.jpg Miguel Goñi Beaver Tracks: A Dam Good Podcast episode 5 - explore the Ocean with Miguel Goñi science-at-sea_600x168.jpg Oceanography in real time Undergraduates learn what it takes to do science at sea Contact Info CEOAS Oregon State University 104 CEOAS Admin. Bldg. Corvallis, OR 97331-5503 541-737-3504 Contact / Map Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Stories News Events Make a Gift