Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends What's a core for? How do scientists use long cylinders of sediment and ice to study the past, present and future of our planet? Travel through this Story Map to learn more. 20200131_mgr_ho_8893_3840x900.jpg Events Calendar of upcoming CEOAS events Students Information for incoming graduate students News Dudley Chelton elected to the National Academy of Sciences CEOAS Stories Farewell, R/V Oceanus Small... The College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences is a small college within a large research university. Our tight-knit community fosters collaborative, cross-disciplinary research and allows for that personal touch – small classes, connections between students and faculty, peer mentoring, and one-on-one academic advising and career counseling. The town of Corvallis has been voted the no. 2 friendliest college town in America, and CEOAS friends are life-long friends. CEOAS is the perfect platform for exploring your interests, honing your skills, and then jumping off into your future. Want to chat with an advisor? They’re ready to help you. ...But Mighty CEOAS is a giant in the field of Earth science: Our geology program has explored the planet for over a century, and our oceanography program is ranked no. 3 in the world. We have outstanding geography and atmospheric science programs as well. In all disciplines, our faculty are renowned for their research and valued for their expertise. We’ve been on the frontlines of discovery from the depths of the ocean to remote mountain peaks, from our backyards to the ends of the Earth. You will too: All CEOAS programs emphasize experiential learning, taking students into the field and involving them in hands-on research. As a CEOAS student, the vast resources of Oregon’s largest research university are at your disposal. College publications: Read more about CEOAS! elements_2022_cover_300x424.jpg college_highlights_2022_300x300.jpg More college publications strata_2021_300x424.jpg Contact Info CEOAS Oregon State University 104 CEOAS Admin. Bldg. Corvallis, OR 97331-5503 541-737-3504 Contact / Map Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Stories News Events Make a Gift