Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Safety & COVID-19 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion History College Administration Strategic Plan Employment Outreach Seminars and Lectures College Publications Awards Faculty Professional Awards Staff and Teaching Awards We're Out There Contact Us Academics Research Analytical Facilities Ships R/V Elakha R/V Oceanus Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV) DIRECTORY Diversity, Equity and Inclusion >> Information For << Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Climate Science Want to talk to a human? Are you a current OSU student? Schedule a one-on-one appointment with an academic advisor. Are you a future OSU student? Get in touch with the CEOAS Undergraduate Student Services Office: 104 Wilkinson Hall 541-737-1201 ceoas.undergrad@oregonstate.edu The Earth’s climate system influences nearly all facets of our existence — from the food we grow to the communities we live in to our nation's economy and security. Climate scientists examine satellite and ice core records, predict the future climate using advanced computer models, and collect data around the world. The Climate Science program is built on a strong foundation of physical climate system science and mathematics. You will discover the complex interactions among the atmosphere, oceans, land and ice—and how these interactions impact our planet and society. Learn alongside your classmates through field courses and project-focused classes on climate data modeling and analysis. Are you ready to learn more? View our Programs Visit Campus Scholarships Undergraduate Research Explore the degree Climate Science Program flyer Climate Science Advising Worksheets Major (catalog year 2021-22 and beyond) Option (catalog year through 2021-22) Degree Learning Outcomes Each student will learn basic concepts in Earth Sciences in preparation for advanced training in the same. Areas include how the earth, ocean, and atmosphere work and interact. Each student will develop quantitative literacy in techniques specific to the major and option. Each student will learn applied practical skills in the discipline at a basic and advanced level through intensive experiential learning. ATS 295 Field Course: Observing Climate Experiential Learning OSU Catalog Meet the faculty More than 70 faculty across the university teach or conduct research in this field, from the science behind climate change to mitigation and adaptation solutions. Meet a few of our faculty. shell_karen_220x220.jpg Karen Shell: Program Head Learn about careers What can you do with a climate science degree? Plenty! Our recent graduates have landed jobs with government agencies, renewable energy companies and consulting firms, and have gone on to graduate school. A few recent examples include: Stream surveyor, U.S. Forest Service Climate scientist, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Graduate student, Western Illinois University Program Manager, Quantum Spatial Inc. Meet the CEOAS Career Advisor Meet some climate science students and alumni What Can I Do with a Climate Science Degree? erin_pettit_600x168.jpg Erin Pettit Tracking glaciers on the move melanie_fewings_600x168.jpg Melanie Fewings Discovering oceanography with satellites nick_siler_600x168.jpg Nick Siler From farms to forecasts Contact Info CEOAS Oregon State University 104 CEOAS Admin. Bldg. Corvallis, OR 97331-5503 541-737-3504 Contact / Map Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Stories News Events Make a Gift