Skip to main content Social Media Links Skip to main content College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences UCR Home Search Quick Links Services and Billing Bioinformatics Core Facilities Genomics Metabolomics Plants 3D Proteomics Find People Give UC Riverside Center for Plant Cell Biology Institute for Integrative Genome Biology Search Welcome About About CEPCEB Our Mission Center Leadership Our Faculty Core Facilities Grad & Undergrad Training Graduate Training Plants3D Program ChemGen IGERT (Archived) Undergraduate Training REU REU Projects News Events Awards & Donations Support CEBCEB Bailey Farms Award CEPCEB Award Fund Natasha V. Raikhel Award Keen Endowed Fund Campbell Award CEPCEB Awardees Contact UCR Home Quick Links Services and Billing Bioinformatics Core Facilities Genomics Metabolomics Plants 3D Proteomics Find People Welcome to CEPCEB! Center for Plant Cell Biology Our Center The Center for Plant Cell Biology addresses significant questions in plant biology on the molecular level. ABOUT OUR CENTER Our People Our Membership includes over 60 physical and life scientists, engineers, biologists, computer scientists and statisticians in 14 Departments across UCR. MEET OUR MEMBERS Our Events From our seminar series to our science fair sponsorship, we offer a host of opportunities for participation and collaboration. We welcome your involvement. View Upcoming Events Our Research Find out more about our research, including our Student Training Opportunities and REU and access to our Core Facilities. LEARN ABOUT OUR RESEARCH Latest News Read the latest about what’s happening around the Center. May 23, 2022 New strategies to save the world’s most indispensable grain Plants — they’re just like us, with unique techniques for handling stress. To save one of the most important crops on Earth from extreme climate swings, scientists are mapping out plants’ own stress-busting strategies... Read More » March 18, 2022 Black eyed peas could help eliminate need for fertilizer From UCR News Article, published January 20, 2022 by Jules Bernstein Black eyed peas’ ability to attract beneficial bacteria isn’t diminished by modern farming practices, new UC Riverside research shows. Planting it in rotation with other crops could help growers... Read More » March 18, 2022 Hailing Jin & Anand Ray Recognized by National Academy of Inventors From a UCR Office of Technology Article, published February 11, 2022. The National Academy of Inventors (NAI) have elected IIGB researchers, Hailing Jin and Anandasankar Ray, as senior members of the academy. Dr. Hailing Jin is currently Professor and Cy... Read More » November 30, 2021 Zhenbiao Yang's Research on Plant Growth Published in Nature Journal From UCR News article, published November 18, 2021 by Jules Bernstein A team of researchers led by UC Riverside has demonstrated for the first time one way that a small molecule turns a single cell into something as large as... Read More » Read More University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Department Information 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-2601 email: iigbadmin@ucr.edu COLLEGE OF NATURAL & AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES CNAS Dean's Office Geology Building, Room 2258 900 University Ave Riverside, CA 92521 Related Links Related Links Services and Billing Bioinformatics Core Facilities Genomics Metabolomics Plants 3D Proteomics College of Natural & Agricultural Sciences Give Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Let us help you with your search × Enter your Search Criteria Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel