Skip to main content Florida State University PROGRAMS Department of Art Department of Art Education Department of Art History Department of Interior Architecture and Design School of Dance School of Theatre Museum of Fine Arts Facility for Arts Research FSU/Asolo Conservatory for Actor Training Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography EVENTS NEWS TICKETS APPLY GIVE This is your Donation message. Log In Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Programs Events News Tickets Navigation Search X Prospective Students Prospective Student Resources About the College Undergraduate Graduate Transfer Students International Students Visitor Information Tuition/Fees Quicklinks College Map Current Students Current Student Resources About the College Advising College Leadership Council Tuition/Fees Visitor Information Quick Links College Map Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Resources Giving College of Fine Arts Dean’s Society Dean’s Advisory Council Visiting Artists / Scholars Newsletters Alumni News Get Connected Contact College Directory College Map News Events Calendar Employment Opportunities Employment for Students/Alumni Newsletter The Arts at Florida State University Submit Design Resources Prospective Students Prospective Student Resources About the College Undergraduate Graduate Transfer Students International Students Visitor Information Tuition/Fees Quicklinks College Map Current Students Current Student Resources About the College Advising College Leadership Council Tuition/Fees Visitor Information Quick Links College Map Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Resources Giving College of Fine Arts Dean’s Society Dean’s Advisory Council Visiting Artists / Scholars Newsletters Alumni News Get Connected Contact College Directory College Map News Events Calendar Employment Opportunities Employment for Students/Alumni Newsletter The Arts at Florida State University Submit Design Resources × FSU College of Fine Arts News May 26, 2022 FSU dance professor continues to be recognized as trail … Florida State University’s Jawole Willa Jo Zollar was honored this week for her lasting contributions to dance through an award that recognizes trailblazers and visionaries in the performing arts. READ MORE » May 20, 2022 Associate Professor Donna Uchizono Premieres WINGS OF I … Recognized for her striking, rigorous choreography that merges formal ideas of abstraction with a profound attention to unseen emotional undercurrents, Donna Uchizono brings her new evening-length work, Wings of... READ MORE » May 18, 2022 FSU prof and therapist David Gussak explores connection … Article courtesy of the Tallahassee Democrat | Written by Marina Brown Dr. David Gussak, Professor of Art Therapy, has written “The Frenzied Dance of Art and Violence.” Florida State... READ MORE » May 13, 2022 Art Fighting Alzheimer’s: Associate Professor Keith R … Associate Professor of Digital Arts Keith Roberson has teamed up with faculty and staff members from the College of Communication and Information, College of Medicine and FSU Facilities to... READ MORE » May 2, 2022 School of Theatre Presents First Fringe The halls, outdoor spaces and lobbies of FSU’s Fine Arts Building came to life April 13-15 as FSU School of Theatre presented its first SOT Fringe. Aaron Thomas, Assistant... READ MORE » April 26, 2022 Doctoral Candidate Julia Kershaw Receives Fulbright Awa … Doctoral candidate Julia Kershaw is one of ten FSU recipients of Fulbright Student Awards for international research in the 2022–23 academic year. The award will support Julia's dissertation research... READ MORE » More News » Your potential, our expertise. Where learning and creativity are nurtured through instruction, research, and practice. Programs » Learn More » News » Apply Now » Events Facilities Map Apply Contact Sign up for the monthly College Newsletter! Stay informed with COVID-19 news and updates from Florida State University by clicking on the link below. Coronavirus Updates Student Focused Our students bring their talent and passion from across the country and around the world. Alumni & Friends Our graduates are the artists, producers, and creative thinkers that will change the world. Creative Community Our University is home to many arts programs that rank among the finest in the country. World-Class Facilities A unique combination of visual and performing arts studios, classrooms, performance spaces, and museums. Art Theatre Art Education Museum of Fine Arts Art History Facility for Arts Research Dance MANCC Interior Architecture & Design FSU/Asolo Conservatory Student Resources » Tuition and Fees » Visitor Information » Map of Facilities » Advising » Contact » "An environment for opportunity..." The College of Fine Arts offers some of the most diverse and renowned programs at any public university. Our students bring their talent and passion from across the country and around the world. Our faculty have an unparalleled combination of professional experience and excellence in research that create a dynamic and vital environment for the arts. Our graduates are the artists, producers, and creative thinkers that will change the world with their innovative approaches. Our community revels in the world-class performances and exhibitions on our stages and in our galleries. And our alumni enrich our programs with their ideas and support. Learn More » Previous Next In the News FSU dance professor continues to be recognized as trail … Florida State University’s Jawole Willa Jo Zollar was honored this week for... Read More » Associate Professor Donna Uchizono Premieres WINGS OF I … Recognized for her striking, rigorous choreography that merges formal ideas of abstraction... Read More » FSU prof and therapist David Gussak explores connection … Article courtesy of the Tallahassee Democrat | Written by Marina Brown Dr.... Read More » Art Fighting Alzheimer’s: Associate Professor Keith R … Associate Professor of Digital Arts Keith Roberson has teamed up with faculty... Read More » In the News FSU dance professor continues to be recognized as trail … May 26, 2022 Florida State University’s Jawole Willa Jo Zollar was honored this week for her lasting contributions to dance through an award that recognizes trailblazers and visionaries in the performing arts. Read More Associate Professor Donna Uchizono Premieres WINGS OF I … May 20, 2022 Recognized for her striking, rigorous choreography that merges formal ideas of abstraction with a profound attention to unseen emotional undercurrents, Donna Uchizono brings her new evening-length work, Wings of Iron, to BAC this spring. Read More FSU prof and therapist David Gussak explores connection … May 18, 2022 Article courtesy of the Tallahassee Democrat | Written by Marina Brown Dr. David Gussak, Professor of Art Therapy, has written “The Frenzied Dance of Art and Violence.” Florida State University Professor David Gussak, former Chairman of the Department of Art Education and currently Project... Read More Art Fighting Alzheimer’s: Associate Professor Keith R … May 13, 2022 Associate Professor of Digital Arts Keith Roberson has teamed up with faculty and staff members from the College of Communication and Information, College of Medicine and FSU Facilities to develop a project known as DeepCare, intended to improve the quality of life for those... Read More Toggle navigation Programs About Programs and Units Department of Art Department of Art Education Department of Art History Department of Interior Architecture and Design School of Dance School of Theatre Museum of Fine Arts Facility for Arts Research FSU/Asolo Conservatory for Actor Training Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography Students Prospective Students Current Students Graduate Page Undergraduate Transfer Students International Students Advising College Leadership Council Student Resources Visitor Information Tuition/Fees News / Events News Employment for Students/Alumni Awards & Achievements Employment Opportunities Current Students Events Calendar Event News Visiting Artists / Scholars Alumni News Fine Arts Ticket Office MDID Tutorial Giving College of Fine Arts Dean’s Society Giving to the College Recent Gifts Legacy Giving Advancement Team About About the College Faculty / Staff Office of the Dean Facilities & Equipment Resources Bylaws Connect Submit Alumni and Friends Contact Us Advising Newsletter Visitor Information The Arts at Florida State University Press Releases Site Map 38th Annual Art History Graduate Student Symposium Art Social Media Report web issues Newsletter The College of Fine Arts proudly produces the monthly e-newsletter, "News Around the College", which showcases each department's events and opportunities. FSU Student Veterans Center English Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish © Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 FSU Social Media: This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT X