Skip to main content University of California, Riverside School of Medicine UCR Home More from us... Division of Biomedical Sciences Search UC Riverside Center for Glial-Neuronal Interactions Innovative Collaborative Research Applied to Problems of Brain Health and Disease Search Home Investigators About Resources & Seminars Annual Symposium 2023 Symposium Program and Schedule 2022 CGNI Year End Event Registration Map & Parking Information Glenn Hatton Lecture Symposium Archives 2021 Symposium Archive 2019 Symposium Archive 2018 Symposium Archive 2017 Symposium Archive 2016 Symposium Archive 2015 Symposium Archive 2014 Symposium Archive 2013 Symposium Archive UCR Home More from us... Division of Biomedical Sciences Center For Glial-Neuronal Interactions The Center for Glial-Neuronal Interactions (CGNI) brings together researchers with very diverse expertise who seek to define neuronal-glial interactions required for optimal brain and spinal cord function as well as for prevention and therapeutic intervention of neurodevelopmental, neurologic and neurodegenerative diseases. Annual CGNI Symposium In recognition of the possibility of health risks, Chancellor Wilcox issued a new directive for campus, prohibiting any large in-person indoor events on campus for the first two weeks of the winter quarter. To respect this directive, The 15th Annual SoCal Symposium on Glial-Neuronal Interactions in Health and Disease has been POSTPONED. Learn about the Symposium Previous Next Breadcrumb Center For Glial-Neuronal Interactions Division of Biomedical Sciences Statement of Solidarity with Black Lives Matter and Call to Action Why Focus on Glial-Neuronal Interactions in CNS Health and Disease? Brain and spinal cord function depends not only on neurons, but on glia. Glia are the non-neuronal elements of the central nervous system (CNS) and comprise approximately 90 percent of the cells within the CNS. The advent of high resolution in vivo imaging has revealed that glia are constantly active in the healthy CNS. Genetic, molecular and epidemiologic studies have also revealed the prominent and often causative roles these cells can play in the pathogenesis of many common neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental disorders including: Alzheimer's disease Autism-spectrum disorders Epilepsy Huntington's disease Ischemia (stroke) Multiple sclerosis Parkinson's disease Schizophrenia Traumatic Brain Injury (concussions) Glial interactions with neurons also play critical roles in loss of function caused by spinal cord injury and traumatic brain injury. CGNI investigators are revealing routes and consequences of glial-neuronal interactions aimed at identifying risk factors as well as therapies for CNS disease and dysfunction. CGNI Monthly Meetings The Center for Glial-Neuronal Interactions hold regular meetings on the second Friday of each month from 3 to 5 p.m. Due to the extended campus closure of UC Riverside, monthly CGNI meetings will be held via Zoom. For more information, please contact biomedsci@medsch.ucr.edu Donate to Support CGNI Researchers We thank all past and current donors for their generous donations helping CGNI researchers pursue innovative collaborative and transdisciplinary research applied to problems of brain health and disease. Your donations will help us continue to do so in the future. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Center for Glial-Neuronal Interactions 1274 Webber Hall Riverside, CA, 92521 tel: General: (951) 827-2584 email: monica.carson@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Center for Healthy Communities Division of Biomedical Sciences Health Professions Advising Center Medical School Intranet The Thomas Haider Program at the UCR School of Medicine UCR School of Medicine Compliance Office Follow US: Visit UCRSOM's Facebook Page Follow UCR School of Medicine on Twitter Visit UCRSOM's YouTube channel Follow UCRSOM on Instagram Subscribe to UCR SOM News at UCR Today Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel