CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Academics Home Academics How can we mobilize our collective ability to develop solutions to local and global problems? MA in Global Thought The MA in Global Thought is a graduate degree consisting of an interdisciplinary, research-based course of study to investigate and analyze contemporary global issues. The nine-month program explores global connections and commonalities in contemporary politics, economics, society, and culture in the classroom and offers internship opportunities at Columbia’s Global Centers and in organizations in global New York. Undergraduate Global Thought Activities in Undergraduate Global Thought include new undergraduate courses, the Global Thought Experience (GTE) providing experiential learning in Global New York, and other activities of the Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought (UCGT), such as workshops with visitors in the World Leaders Forum, faculty-student discussions, and Global Thought Labs. Academics Signature Research Youth in a Changing World A World Indebted Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Politics of Memory in Global Context Global Money Unsettlement Past Research Projects Media Podcast Newsletter About About CGT What is Global Thought? Annual Reports Focus Areas History Partnerships Contact Us People Careers Contribute Privacy Policy News Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Events Rethinking the World Co-Sponsored Programs Upcoming Events Past Events Event Videos Global Think-in Global Thought Lectures CGT Lunchtime Seminars Book Talks Resources Resources: Books Resources: Papers Research Resources Search Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.