CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Events Home Events Upcoming Events Click here to see all upcoming CGT events. Can we make a difference in thinking and acting in the world today? Rethinking the World The CGT presents Rethinking the World, a programmatic series exploring the challenges and opportunities inherent in our unique global moment of compounding crises as well as unforeseen opportunities for creative solutions. Cross-disciplinary discussions with experts, activists, and students from around the world will focus on scholarly analysis and lived experience concerning global issues including public health and the coronavirus, global economy, education, racial/social justice, climate, migration, and more. Global Think-in Global Think-ins are vehicles for generating new ideas and perspectives on issues of global concern. The Think-ins are designed as forums for academics and practitioners from diverse disciplinary and methodological backgrounds, geographical locations, and expertise to share, critique, and develop new ideas. Global Thought Lecture The Global Thought Lecture is an annual public event led by a leading global figure to contribute to the urgent issues which face the world today. The Lecture’s past participants include Kevin Rudd, Pascal Lamy, and Homi K. Bhabha. Lunchtime Seminars The CGT Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to discuss current research characterizing and assessing issues of global importance. Book Talks Book Talks are discussions by noted authors, scholars, and journalists who have highlighted the importance of global issues around the world. Our roster of CGT Book Talk participants include Joseph E. Stiglitz, Kenneth Arrow, Marco Magnani, Atossa Araxia Abrahamian, and Sasha Issenberg. Co-Sponsored Programs Each year, the CGT co-sponsors public and private programs relevant to global thought. In 2020-2021 the CGT joined in hosting numerous online programs from across the world. Learn more about co-sponsored programs. Event Video Archive The Event Video Archive is a collection of event recordings and other media to help illustrate the signature research being conducted at the Committee on Global Thought (online video channels at Vimeo and YouTube; video archive at cgt.columbia.edu/events/event-videos). Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.