CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Global Thought Lectures Home Events Global Thought Lectures Global Thought Lectures Launched in 2013, the annual Global Thought Lecture held in the rotunda of Low Library attracts a broad audience from Columbia and the New York metropolitan area. In addition to the public lecture, CGT faculty members, Advisory Council members, special guests, and students hold private sessions to learn more about the speaker. Kevin Rudd on “The Rise of China and its Impact on the Global Order” Sep. 17, 2015 at Low Memorial Library – The 2015 Global Thought Lecture and World Leaders Forum featured an address by the Honorable Kevin Rudd, President of the Asia Society Policy Institute; Former Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Australia, titled The Rise of China and its Impact on the Global Order. Watch the video. Hon. Kevin Rudd, President of the Asia Society Policy Institute; Prime Minister of Australia (2007-2010, 2013); Foreign Minister of Australia (2010-2012). Welcome: Dr. Vishakha N. Desai, Senior Advisor for Global Affairs to the President; Senior Research Scholar, School of International and Public Affairs; Member of the Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University. Introduction: Lee C. Bollinger, President, Columbia University. Respondent: Steven Cohen, Executive Director of The Earth Institute; Professor in the Practice of Public Affairs, Columbia University. Past Global Thought Lectures Pascal Lamy on Global Governance and Future Challenges: Lessons from the Oxford Martin Commission Apr. 29, 2014 at Low Memorial Library – The 2014 Global Thought Lecture featured an address by Pascal Lamy, former Director-General of the World Trade Organization and Chair of the Oxford Martin Commission for Future Generations, titled Global Governance and Future Challenges: Lessons from the Oxford Martin Commission. The Oxford Martin Commission for Future Generations gathered 19 international leaders from government, business and civil society to address the growing short-term preoccupations of modern politics and business and identify ways of overcoming today’s gridlock in key international negotiations. Chaired by Pascal Lamy, the Commission’s report, “Now for the Long Term,” is the product of a year-long process and debate on the successes and failures in addressing global challenges over recent decades. Watch the video. Pascal Lamy, Honorary President of Notre Europe – Jacques Delors Institute and former Director-General of the World Trade Organization. Welcome: Dr. Vishakha N. Desai, Special Advisor for Global Affairs and Member of the Committee on Global Thought. Introduction: Lee C. Bollinger, President, Columbia University. Respondent: Richard G. Parker, Professor of Sociomedical Sciences and Anthropology and Member of the Committee on Global Thought. Moderator: José Antonio Ocampo, Professor of Professional Practice in the Faculty of International and Public Affairs and Member of the Committee on Global Thought. Homi K. Bhabha on Living Side by Side: On culture and security Apr. 29, 2013 at Low Memorial Library – The Inaugural Global Thought Lecture featured Homi K. Bhabha, the Anne F. Rothenberg Professor of the Humanities at Harvard University, Director of the Mahindra Humanities Center, and Senior Advisor to the President and Provost at Harvard University. In his address, he discussed how the partial sovereignties and necessary exclusions of the era of globalization impact one’s sense of self, of belonging and of dispossession. In doing so he argued that many people experience globalization from a quasi-colonial position—neither fully incorporated into modern politics nor excluded from it. Watch the video. Homi K. Bhabha, Anne F. Rothenberg Professor of the Humanities, Harvard University. Discussant: Saskia Sassen, Robert S. Lynd Professor of Sociology, and Former Co-chair and current member of the Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University. Back to Events Global Thought Lectures Rethinking the World Co-Sponsored Programs Upcoming Events Past Events Event Videos Global Think-in Global Thought Lectures CGT Lunchtime Seminars Book Talks Faculty Quote The larger aim is for this major annual lecture to contribute to the tissue that binds the different parts of the university through the global perspective of disciplinary specifics. Saskia Sassen Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.