CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Youth in a Changing World Home Signature Research Youth in a Changing World Project Summary Youth Voices on the COVID-19 Pandemic Global Youth Summit Project History Additional Resources X Voices and Imaginations of Global Youth Front and Center The Youth in a Changing World Project "Education and the Future of Work," Collective Drawing, Broward College "Digital Technologies, Identity, and Communication/Connection," Collective Drawing, Broward College "Aspirations and the Future," Collective Drawing, Paris, France "Digital Technologies, Identity, and Communication/Connection," Collective Drawing, Paris, France "Security and Wellbeing," Collective Drawing, Brookdale Community College, New Jersey, United States "Education and the Future of Work," Collective Drawing, Beirut, Lebanon "Aspirations for the Future," Collective Drawing, Sricity, India "Education and the Future of Work," Collective Drawing, Sricity, India "Civic and Political Engagement," Collective Drawing, Istanbul, Turkey "Security and Wellbeing," Collective Drawing, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil "Education and the Future of Work," Collective Drawing, Sricity, India "Security and Wellbeing," Collective Drawing, Sricity, India "Aspirations for the Future," Collective Drawing, Brookdale Community College, New Jersey, United States "Digital Technologies, Identity, and Communication/Connection," Collective Drawing, Amman, Jordan "Security and Wellbeing," Collective Drawing, Amman, Jordan "Aspirations for the Future," Collective Drawing, Nairobi, Kenya Previous Next Project Overview Rapid change and uncertainty have become an increasing feature of global realities. What does the future look like for the world’s young people who will inherit the burdens of global climate change, political polarizations, and wide-spread economic and health disparity as well as the promises and dilemmas of digital technologies and global interconnectedness? Launched in 2017 in collaboration with the Columbia Global Centers, the “Youth in a Changing World” (YCW) project, is a series of global workshops, where youth discuss among themselves how their future aspirations are affecting and being affected by the rapidly changing world. There are many global surveys on youth, but scant qualitative and trans-border research that incorporates young people as both researchers and subjects. The YCW project is an innovative study with three primary goals: To provide a platform for youth to shape research on themselves and in collaboration with other young people from all walks of life; To learn how youth around the world envision their present lives, futures, and prospects for their communities and the world at this time of global change; To produce proposals for both local and global approaches to the challenges confronting youth and the world they will inherit. Our Unique Methodology Following the CGT dictum of learning from the world, the YCW project uses a unique approach that combines trans-border collaboration and dialogue. The project works with Columbia’s nine Global Centers, local universities, and youth organizations to plan and implement multimodal workshops in the languages and settings youth. More importantly, project researchers train youth leaders to facilitate group discussions and lead a collective drawing with their peers. In this way, the project builds local capacity by empowering youth to shape and carry out research for themselves and their communities. Peer-Discussions: The YCW workshops includes focus group discussions, where local youth facilitators moderation a conversation with their peers around three thematic open-ended questions. These non-hierarchical conversations allow young people to share their thoughts and feelings in a safe and comfortable environment. Collective Drawing: Each peer-led focus group ends with a collective drawing exercise, in which the young people create an image around their conversation. Collective drawings offer participants freedom to “play” with artistic expression to shape and convey their own narratives and understandings. Collective drawings also encourage the youth to negotiate visual representations with their peers, given them an opportunity to think more critically around the discussion theme in the process of drawing. See the drawings Project Scope: So far, we have conducted workshops in the Northeastern United States, Brazil, Tunisia, Jordan, Turkey, Kenya, India, and Lebanon. And more are planned in France and the Midwestern, Western, and Southern United States. By the end of the project collection phase, we will have held over twenty-five workshops with more than 500 youth in five world regions (the Americas, Middle East, North Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, and Europe), trained over 100 youth facilitators, conducted 100 individual focus groups, and gathered 100 collective drawings. What We’re Learning It is evident from the conversations we held so far that young people everywhere acutely feel the need for a platform to express themselves and have themselves heard. And, as digital and global natives, they are able to think simultaneously in personal, local, and global terms. Although at its preliminary stages of interpretation, workshops are revealing several shared issues: Frustrations with established institutions that do not reflect the demands of a changing world; Resentment that due to their age, youth have to wait to lead political and civic processes; A realization that existing pathways to adulthood may not result in desired futures; A personal sense of privilege or disadvantage as compared to young people elsewhere; A growing understanding of both the mobilizing and divisive effects of digital technologies coupled with growing concern with privacy and identity; A mixed sense of hope and despair about the future of the world and local communities. Project Summary Youth Voices on the COVID-19 Pandemic Global Youth Summit Project History Additional Resources X Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.