CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Home Signature Research Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Overview Developed in response to the increasing political pressures placed on artists and arts institutions by activists and special interest groups, on the one hand, and politically conservative governments on the other, Politics of Visual Arts focuses on new political trends that are affecting the creation, presentation, reception, and preservation of works of art in diverse cultural contexts. Politics of Visual Arts is supported by a major grant from the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts. Context Arts have been periodically but consistently subjected to political pressures. Their opposition generally comes from the conservative end of the political spectrum and is often associated with governmental actions. This was fully evident in the culture wars of the 1990s in the U.S., and in the crackdown on artists and art projects in the aftermath of the events at Tiananmen Square in China. Now, in many parts of the world, new voices are clamoring to constrain artistic expression and presentations of works of art. Even the traditional issues of cultural repatriation have taken on new urgency as the cause has been taken on by new actors. Social media platforms are creating new possibilities for artists to become politically engaged and the same platforms are utilized to instantaneously create social movements to destroy works of art seen as unpalatable to special groups. At the same time, politically conservative leaders in many parts of the world are using populist strategies and sophisticated social media platforms to put new pressures on artists and arts institutions. Thus, pressures are felt from multiple sources: special interest groups demanding limits on artistic expressions 2 that are deemed offensive and rightwing governments seeking control over art that may be seen as critical or provocative. While it is true that all forms of art, from literary to visual and performing arts are under new socio-political pressures, this project will focus on visual arts, (painting and sculpture to installations, film and digital works), to delve deeper into the way that images are politicized by interested actors across the world. Description of Activities Politics of Visual Arts is developed in consultation with Columbia CGT faculty members representing diverse disciplines and further refined in a set of workshops with colleagues from the greater New York City area. Partnerships with organizations such as Bridge Figures have further enhanced the project. On the basis of these discussions and conversations with colleagues in Istanbul, New Delhi, and Rio, the following issues have been identified for further study: The role of social media platforms and new technologies in enabling or constraining politically oriented artistic expression Rising populism on the right and the left and the development of new pressures on artistic freedom Cultural appropriation, identity politics, and freedom of expression The relationship between socially and politically engaged art and “aesthetic” journalism Changing legal frameworks and public attitudes on the creation and consumption of art New demands for cultural repatriation and new responses to such demands Roles and responsibilities of cultural institutions in dealing with new pressures on presentation and acquisition of works of art The project will explore these issues through the development of broader conceptual frames as well as through analyses of specific cases to illuminate deeper underlying questions. The project has been a collaborative effort between a working group of NYC-based artists, curators, academics, and other interested individuals. The group has been meeting in closed-door discussions focused on a specific issue (e.g. social media) or a specific constituency (e.g. artists), of which the findings are meant to be brought to a wider audience through public programming. The next phase of the project will include several more workshops and public programs in New York City and then move to workshops at the Columbia Global Centers in Istanbul, Paris, Mumbai, Amman or Lebanon, and Rio de Janeiro. One of the main reasons to study this phenomenon in a global context is that many of the issues articulated here are not exclusively American, they have resonance in many parts of the world. Often the same issues appear in multiple locations, reflecting transnational trends. For example, animal rights activists protesting at the Guggenheim Museum gave rise to similar protests in Europe. At the same time, some issues may have specific relevance in one place and not in others. The discussions and workshops in the Columbia Global Centers will help refine the issues and provide a more nuanced understanding of the politics of visual arts around the world. The Centers will also help identify scholars, artists, and institutional leaders who can help shape the culminating conference to be held at Columbia University as well as help produce materials for broader dissemination. The final conference at Columbia will consist of presentations by artists as well as scholars and curators, along with of installations of work by politically engaged visual artists that can provoke a conversation about issues of artistic freedom of expression. We will use an open-platform strategy to disseminate the presentations and make them available to colleagues across the world. A more formal publication with a collection of essays and relevant images is also planned in collaboration with Columbia University Press. Working Bibliography Academic Articles Adler, Amy. “Against Moral Rights.” California Law Review, 97 (2009): 263-300. Adler, Amy. “The First Amendment and the Second Commandment.” New York Law School Law Review57, no. 41 (2013): 41-58. Burgess, JE and Sonja Vivienne. “The remediation of the personal photograph and the politics of self-representation in digital storytelling.” Journal of Material Culture 18. No. 3 (2013): 279-298. Butler, Judith. “Bodies in Alliance and the Politics of the Street.” European Institute for Progressive and Cultural Policies 9 (2011): 1-29. Chotpradit, Thanavi. “Of Art and Absurdity: Military, Censorship, and Contemporary Art in Thailand.” Journal of Asia-Pacific Pop Culture3, no. 1 (2018): 5-25. De Sousa, Victor, et al. “Elastic/Borracha/Elástico: Timor-Leste Mobile Artists’ Residency.” Northern Centre for Contemporary Art, Darwin (2016). Fisher, Dana R., Lorien Jasny, and Dawn M. Dow. “Why are We Here? Patterns of Intersectional Motivations Across the Resistance.” Mobilization: An International Quarterly23, no. 4 (2018): 451-468. Cuno, James. “Culture War: The Case Against Repatriating Museum Artifacts.” Foreign Affairs93, no. 6 (2014): 119-129. Fisher, Dana R. “The broader importance of #FridaysForFuture.” Nature Climate Change9, no. 6 (2019): 430-431. Fisher, Dana R. “The Diversity of the Recent Black Lives Matter Protests Is a Good Sign for Racial Equity.” Brookings. Brookings, July 8, 2020. Fisher, Dana. “The George Floyd Protests May Become a Defining Moment in the Future of American Politics.” Business Insider. Business Insider, June 28, 2020. Fisher, Dana. “I’m a Professor Who Studies Protests and Activism. Here’s Why the George Floyd Protests Are Different.” Business Insider. Business Insider, June 7, 2020. Fisher, Dana R., and Lorien Jasny. “Understanding Persistence in the Resistance.” In Sociological Forum, vol. 34, pp. 1065-1089. 2019. Fisher, Dana R., Dawn M. Dow, and Rashawn Ray. “Intersectionality takes it to the streets: Mobilizing across diverse interests for the Women’s March.” Science Advances3, no. 9 (2017). Fisher, Dana R., Kenneth T. Andrews, Neal Caren, Erica Chenoweth, Michael T. Heaney, Tommy Leung, L. Nathan Perkins, and Jeremy Pressman. “The Science of Contemporary Street Protest: New Efforts in the United States.”Science advances 5, no. 10 (2019). Fisher, Dana R., Lorien Jasny, and Dawn M. Dow. “Why Are We Here? Patterns of Intersectional Motivations Across the Resistance.”Mobilization: An International Quarterly 23, no. 4 (2018): 451-468. Hertz, Betti-Sue. “Our Bodies Our Selves at the Women’s March, January 21, 2017.” Art Practical, March 22, 2017. Hughes, Jennifer Scheper, and Ariane Dalla Déa. “Authenticity and Resistance: Latin American Art, Activism, and Performance in the New Global Context.” Latin American Perspectives 29, no. 2(2012): 5-10. Memou, Antigoni. “Art, Activism and the Tate.” Third Text31, no. 5-6 (2017): 619-631. Phillips, Louise Gwenneth, and Catherine Montes. “Walking Borders: Explorations of Aesthetics in Ephemeral Arts Activism for Asylum Seeker Rights.” Space and Culture21, no. 2 (2018): 92-107. Sarr, Felwine, and Bénédicte Savoy. The Restitution of African Cultural Heritage: Toward a New Relational Ethics. Ministère de la Culture. (2018). Steyerl, Hito. “In Defense of the Poor Image.” e-flux journal10, no. 11 (2009). Strafella, Giorgio, and Daria Berg. “Twitter Bodhisattva”: Ai Weiwei’s Media Politics.” Asian Studies Review39, no. 1 (2015): 138-157. Wu, Tim. “Is the First Amendment Obsolete?” L. Rev.117 (2018): 547. Books Apprich, Clemens, Florian Cramer, Wendy Hui Kyong Chun, and Hito Steyerl. Pattern Discrimination. University of Minnesota Press, 2019 D’Souza, Aruna. Whitewalling: Art, Race, & Protest in Three Act., Badlands Unlimited, 2018. Eubanks, Virginia. Automating Inequality: How High-Tech Tools Profile, Police, and Punish the Poor. St. Martin’s Press, 2018. (See the associated NYTimes article here.) Eyal, Nir. Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products. Penguin, 2014. Fisher, Dana R. American Resistance: From the Women’s March to the Blue Wave. Columbia University Press, 2019. Frischmann, Brett, and Evan Selinger. Re-Engineering Humanity. Cambridge University Press, 2018. Ginwala, Natasha et al. Nights of the Dispossessed: Riots Unbound. Columbia University Press, 2020. Hansen, Mark BN. Feed-Forward: On the Future of Twenty-First-Century Media. University of Chicago Press, 2015. Heimans, Jeremy, and Henry Timms. New Power: How Power Works in Our Hyperconnected World- and How to Make It Work for You. Toronto: Vintage Canada, 2019. Lanier, Jaron. Ten Arguments for Deleting Your Social Media Accounts Right Now. Random House, 2018. (See the associated NYTimes article here.) Lovink, Geert. “Sad by Design: On Platform Nihilism.” Digital Barricades (2019). Lovink, Geert. Networks Without a Cause: A Critique of Social Media. Cambridge: Polity, 2012. Marchart, Olivier. Conflictual Aesthetics: Artistic Activism and the Public Sphere, Sternberg Press, Berlin, 2019. Marres, Noortje. Digital Sociology: The Reinvention of Social Research. John Wiley & Sons, 2017. (E-book available here.) McGarry, Aidan, Itir Erhart, Hande Eslen-Ziya, Olu Jenzen, and Umut Korkut. The Aesthetics of Global Protest: Visual Culture and Communication. Amsterdam University Press, 2019. Mirzoeff, Nicholas. The Appearance of Black Lives Matter. [Name] Publications, 2017. Moss, Jessica, and Ram Rahman. The Sahmat Collective: Art and Activism in India since 1989. Smart Museum of Art, The University of Chicago, 2013. Noble, Safiya Umoja. Algorithms of Oppression: How Search Engines Reinforce Racism. NYU Press, 2018. (E-book available here.) O’neil, Cathy. Weapons of Math Destruction: How Big Data Increases Inequality and Threatens Democracy. Broadway Books, 2016. Rushkoff, Douglas. Program or Be Programmed: Ten Commands for a Digital Age. Or Books, 2010. Steyerl, Hito. Duty Free Art: Art in the Age of Planetary Civil War. Verso Books, 2917. Weibel, Peter, ed. Global Activism: Art and Conflict in the 21st Century. ZKM, Center for Art and Media, 2015. Werbner, Pnina, ed. The Political Aesthetics of Global Protest: The Arab Spring and Beyond. University of Edinburgh Press, 2014. Interviews, Newspaper Articles, & Online Essays Angwin, Julia, and Hannes Grassegger. ., “Facebook’s Secret Censorship Rules Protect White Men From Hate Speech But Not Black Children.” Mother Jones28 (2017). Bahuguna, Urvashi. “Only after Her Murder Was Qandeel Baloch Praised as a Feminist, as a Modern Pakistani Woman.” in, May 12, 2018. Blay, Zeba. “How The ‘Art Hoe’ Movement Is Redefining The Selfie For Black Teens.” HuffPost, August 31, 2015. Cirio, Paolo. “Aesthetics of Information Ethics” Paolo Cirio, 2017. Cotter, Holland. “Money, Ethics, Art: Can Museums Police Themselves?” The New York Times, May 9, 2019. Daniel, Daria. “New Artistic Activism and Social Media.” artnet News, February 16, 2015. Davis, Ben. “What Warren Kanders’s Defeat at the Whitney Teaches Us About How Protest Works Now.” Artnet News, August 2, 2019. “Deleted, suspended, demoted: Censorship, Silicon Valley-style”, Al-Jazeera, March 18, 2018 Ejiofor, Annette, Chandelis R. Duster, and Amber Payne. “Creator of Emmett Till ‘Open Casket’ at Whitney Responds to Backlash.” NBCNews. NBCUniversal News Group, March 27, 2017. Faulkner, Charlie. “How art is bringing people together in the midst of the Hong Kong protests.” The National, November 29, 2019. Featherstone, Liza. “How Big Data Is ‘Automating Inequality’.” The New York Times, May 4, 2018. Foer, Franklin. “Click ‘Delete’ to Save Your Soul.” The New York Times, June 13, 2018. Frizzell, Nell. “#Arthoe: the Teens Who Kickstarted a Feminist Art Movement.” The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, August 19, 2015. Haigney, Sophie. “The Artist Who Guides His Art with Crypto-Tokens.” The New Yorker, September 5, 2018. Hudson, Laura. “Twitter Is Wrong: Facts Are Not Enough to Combat Alex Jones.” The Verge, August 10, 2018. Hyacinthe, Anobb. “Hong Kong Protests: Fighting without Violence.” The Observer. Broward College, November 10, 2019. Hynes, Eric. “Interview with Heba Yehia Amin, Caram Kapp, and Don Karl of Homeland Is Not a Series.” Field of Vision, December 20, 2015. Interview with Annie Gillette Cleveland, Brunswick Review, Issue 17, 2019. Jacobs, Julia. “The ‘Black Lives Matter’ Street Art That Contains Multitudes.” The New York Times, July 16, 2020. Miranda, Carolina A. “Social Media Have Become a Vital Tool for Artists – but Are They Good for Art?” Los Angeles Times, June 23, 2016. Muñoz-Alonso, Lorena. “Painting of Emmett Till at Whitney Biennial Sparks Protest.” artnet News, March 21, 2017. Okwodu, Janelle. “Meet the Game-Changing Model-Artist-Activist Behind Art Hoe Collective.” Vogue, May 18, 2018. Park, K-sue. “The A.C.L.U. Needs to Rethink Free Speech.” The New York Times, August 17, 2017. Stapley-Brown, Victoria. “Philanthropy, but at what price? US museums wake up to the public’s ethical concerns.” The Art Newspaper, August 28, 2019. Stoval, Maya. “A Retelling of American History – in Neon.” New York Times, July 20, 2020. Tomkins, Calvin, and Peter Schjeldahl. “Why Dana Schutz Painted Emmett Till.” The New Yorker, April 3, 2017. York, Jillian C. “A Brief History of YouTube Censorship.” VICE, March 26, 2018. “Women fill streets of world’s cities with call for justice.” NBC News. The Associated Press, March 9, 2020. International Arts Rights Advisors: Interview with Yumna Al-Arashi by Julia Farrington Taken Down Article about the Walker Art Center’s handling of the crisis around Sam Durant’s sculpture “Scaffold,” The Brunswick Review (2019) Reports Farida Shaheed, UN Special Rapporteur in the field of cultural rights, The Right to Artistic Freedom of Expression and Creativity Freemuse: State of Artistic Freedom 2018 Nyst, C. and Monaco, N.: State-Sponsored Trolling: How Governments Are Deploying Disinformation as Part of Broader Digital Harassment Campaigns (2018), Institute for the Future Other Content Hou Hanru: Ten Theses Against the Activism of “Good Morals” Morehshin Allahyari‘s work addressing digital colonialism Hito Steyerl on Circulationism (video) Spitting and painting workshop with Arte Moris and Maria Madeira (video) The Sahmat Collective, Art and Activism in India since 1989. Curated by Jessica Moss and Ram Rahman. Smart Museum of Art, The University of Chicago, 2013. Mirror Shield Project (Mni WIconi). cannupahanska. Back to Signature Research Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Youth in a Changing World Project History Youth Voices on the COVID-19 Pandemic Global Youth Summit Additional Resources A World Indebted Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Politics of Memory in Global Context Past Events Partners and Supporters Global Money Unsettlement Past Research Projects Arts, Culture, and Quality of Life in Global Cities From Local to Scale Global Science Sustainable Investment Urbanizing Technology: The Mobility Complex Featured Event Thu Oct 08 Contested Legacies: Public Monuments in Global Perspective View more info Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.