CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Privacy Policy Home About Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Identities of users of this Site are not anonymous, but names of users and personal identifying information about users will not be provided to any third parties. The Committee on Global Thought may use IP addresses, domain information and other access statistics to analyze trends, administer the Site, track users’ movements, and gather broad demographic information for aggregate use. This information is not linked to personally identifiable information. Global Thought may share aggregated demographic information with third parties. Aggregate information is not linked to any personal information that can identify any individual person. Subscription Lists The Committee on Global Thought at Columbia University web site provides subscription services, including an e-mail based mailing list. E-mail addresses collected in the maintenance of those lists are not shared with any person or organization outside of Global Thought. This Privacy Policy applies to your use of sites under the domain https://cgt.columbia.edu. This Privacy Policy does not apply to your use of any other sites operated by Columbia University or affiliated or unaffiliated third-party sites to which the Site may link. Exceptions In certain circumstances, and as exceptions to this Privacy Policy, we will, without notice to you, release specific information about you or your account to comply with any valid legal process such as a search warrant, subpoena, statute, or court order, or in other special cases, such as, for example, an attempted breach of the security of the Site, or a physical threat to you or others. We may change this Privacy Policy from time to time to address new issues and reflect changes on this site, and as the need arises. All changes to this Privacy Policy will be posted here. Please refer to this Privacy Policy regularly. If you have any questions or concerns about this Privacy Policy, please send us an email at globalthought@columbia.edu. Back to About Privacy Policy About CGT What is Global Thought? Annual Reports Focus Areas History Letter from President Lee Bollinger Partnerships Contact Us People Committee Members Academic Program Faculty Committee Fellows Research Scholars Advisory Council Members Bartsch Fellows Staff Careers Contribute Privacy Policy Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.