CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Annual Reports Home About Annual Reports The Committee on Global Thought Annual Report 2020-2021 The Annual Report of the Committee on Global Thought highlights signature research projects, programming, academics, and activities that have occurred during the year at the CGT, as well as initiatives to extend the range of global thought at Columbia University and around the world. Read the CGT 2020-2021 Annual Report. Past Annual Reports Read our past annual reports below. Back to About Annual Reports About CGT What is Global Thought? Annual Reports Focus Areas History Letter from President Lee Bollinger Partnerships Contact Us People Committee Members Academic Program Faculty Committee Fellows Research Scholars Advisory Council Members Bartsch Fellows Staff Careers Contribute Privacy Policy Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.