CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Unsettlement Home Signature Research Unsettlement Unsettlement Led by anthropologist, Rosalind Morris, the CGT project on Unsettlement aims to enable critical thought and a just response to issues that transcend the category of migrancy and the issues of border security. Beyond the false dichotomy of voluntary or forced movement, in areas where border regimes are mutating and climate change is precipitating profound demographic shifts, the project brings together scholars, policy makers, journalists and artists in forums that aim to inform and to foster new approaches to the challenges of our present and the future. Project History On Dec. 16, 2015, CGT member Rosalind C. Morris led a brainstorming session for a proposed CGT research project on a rigorous theoretical exploration of the concepts, questions and tasks of responding to the current and short-term future of migrancy. Estimates of the numbers of people presently displaced from their homes range from several hundred million to more than a billion. These ‘unsettled’ people may be stateless or without access to the securities that are tied to residency within a single political jurisdiction. Or they may be relatively autonomous actors who move temporarily but find themselves stranded from or disavowed by their home states. They may be ‘criminalized’ but exist beyond the reach of regulatory systems. They may be forcibly dislocated – due to existing or anticipated natural disasters – or they may be fleeing such efforts and other forms of coercion. Many of the organizing concepts and ‘institutionalities’ through which we have previously addressed questions of migrancy need to be either radically rethought or abandoned. We need, for example, to rethink the presumptive oppositions between voluntary and involuntary movement linked to the distinction between political and criminal violence, and between temporary versus permanent migration. Related conceptions of right and of political sovereignty must also be interrogated. The research project, Unsettlement, has convened groups of scholars in rigorous theoretical explorations of deep and multivalent responses to the current and short-term future of migrancy. It has also engaged cultural producers and artists who are addressing these issues, to open up our understanding of movement beyond mobility. In Fall 2020, the project began convening groups of scholars, artists, critics and activists to discuss key issues, concepts and tasks of a regional and transregional nature. The goal is threefold: 1) to share and learn from each other about the issues of unsettlement as they have appeared within specific spaces and histories; 2) to confront and theorize the changing social, political and economic causes and responses to these issues as have refracted by the pandemic; and 3) to generate new and more adequate questions and ways of thinking about these issues. These meetings are intended to be starting points or extended and improvisational gatherings, born of shared interests and discoveries that we hope will emerge from the initial gatherings. The project will continue with a focus on the Indian Ocean region, the Americas, and Europe. In Fall 2021 or Spring 2022, we aim to gather all of the participants together in person, for a broad, comparative discussion about what we have learned in this process and to determine on that basis and in collective conversation, what new agendas we might wish to pursue together. Learn more about the research proposal. Featured Event “On the Edge of the Settled World” featuring Shahidul Alam, Carlos Chamorro, and Nikos Pilos, October 22, 2020. Past Events Eight Ways of Thinking Unsettlement March 4, 2021 Featuring Rosalind Morris, Euclides Gonçalves, Mpho Matsipa, Isabel Hofmeyr, Yvette Christianse, Achille Mbembe, and Johannes Machinya, and Sarah Nuttall Insecure Zones: Reflections from Africa and the Indian Ocean November 12, 2020 Featuring Rosalind Morris, Euclides Gonçalves, Mpho Matsipa, Isabel Hofmeyr, Yvette Christianse, Achille Mbembe, and Johannes Machinya. On the Edge of the Settled World October 22, 2020 Featuring Rosaline Morris, Carlos Fernando Chamorro Barrios, Nikos Pilos, and Shahidul Alam. Image and Counter-Image: Dreaming Borders, Unthinking Migration October 18, 2018 Featuring Rosalind Morris, Stefania Pandolfo, and Leila Kilani Media Podcast | 8 Ways to Think About Unsettlement: Part 2 March 31, 2021 Featuring Rosalind Morris, Johannes Machinya, Sarah Nuttall, and Achille Mbembe Podcast | 8 Ways to Think About Unsettlement: Part 1 March 25, 2021 Podcast | What can we learn from the men seeking gold and friendship in the mines of South Africa? March 18, 2021 Featuring Rosalind Morris and Mpiwa Mangwiro Back to Signature Research Unsettlement Youth in a Changing World Project History Youth Voices on the COVID-19 Pandemic Global Youth Summit Additional Resources A World Indebted Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Politics of Memory in Global Context Past Events Partners and Supporters Global Money Unsettlement Past Research Projects Arts, Culture, and Quality of Life in Global Cities From Local to Scale Global Science Sustainable Investment Urbanizing Technology: The Mobility Complex Featured Event Thu Oct 22 On the Edge of the Settled World View more info Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.