CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Media Home Media News Visit the News section of the CGT website to read the most up-to-date articles and publications written by CGT Faculty and Fellows. Podcast Listen to the first episodes of Global Thought Podcast in the below widget! Descriptions of each episode are available on the CGT’s Soundcloud page. Social The CGT has an active social media presence. Follow our accounts by clicking the buttons below. Photo Gallery The CGT Flickr page hosts all photos from past events, from Global Think-ins and Lunchtime Seminars, to Undergraduate Talks with Professors and M.A. in Global Thought symposia. Event Video Archive The Event Video Archive is a collection of event recordings and other media to help illustrate the signature research being conducted at the Committee on Global Thought (online video channels at Vimeo and YouTube; video archive at cgt.columbia.edu/events/event-videos). Newsletter Get weekly updates on upcoming events, CGT Faculty publications, and more through our newsletter. Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.