CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Past Events Home Events Past Events Mass Intellectuality? An ICLS Annual Conference 2022 The Committee on Global Thought proudly Co-Sponsors: Mass Intellectuality? An Institute for Comparative Literature and Society Annual Conference 2022 April 20 and 22, 2022 Long viewed as an engine of sociality mobility, the university is in crisis. Our day-long convening will inaugurate ongoing reflection on themes regarding the university as infrastructure and ideological apparatus including: […] Wed Apr 20 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Yasmine Ergas Yasmine Ergas, Rosalind C. Morris Was Gender Liberal? Tuesday April 12 | 12:30-1:30 PM ET On Tuesday, April 12th, spend your break with Professor Yasmine Ergas and Professor Rosalind C. Morris as they discuss the role of gender in liberal thought. For over a decade, illiberal governments and movements have not only targeted gender rights but also so-called “gender ideology”, […] Tue Apr 12 The Urgency of Global Ethics Columbia University Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought presents: The Urgency of Global Ethics: Notions of Justice in an Interconnected World Friday, April 8, 2022, 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM ET Join the Undergraduate Committee of Global Thought for a conference on the Urgency of Global Ethics. The rise of globalization has complicated our understanding […] Fri Apr 08 New Utopias: How Would You Make the Most of Your Longer Life? Dr. Vishakha N Desai, Linda Fried, Isabella Aboderin, John Beard The Committee on Global Thought is a Co-Sponsor of: New Utopias: How Would You Make the Most of Your Longer Life? In a utopia, our “golden” years are filled with strong social bonds, good health. and security. How do you envision your last third of life? With great gains in longevity in the 20th Century, […] Tue Apr 05 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Nikhar Gaikwad Nikhar Gaikwad, Andreas Wimmer Join Professor Nikhar Gaikwad as he discusses how labor mobility in the global economy reshapes the identities and attitudes of migrants. Moderated by Professor Andreas Wimmer, the discussion will illustrate how globalization holds the potential for altering intergroup relations in the developing world. Register Here Fri Apr 01 Global Youth Summit on Climate Action Tell your story, share your ideas, scale our solutions in a conversation led by youth, for youth. The Global Youth Summit on Climate Action will bring together young people from around the world to examine the global climate crisis from multiple local perspectives. By going beyond the narratives and popular figures that dominate media coverage […] Fri Apr 01 A Conversation on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in International Affairs Tiffany Batiste, Aasha Shaik, Hayat Aljowaily, Vishakha N. Desai The Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought presents: A Conversation on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in International Affairs Tuesday, March 29, 7-8pm ET The field of international affairs ⁠— which spans across governments, international organizations, non-profits, and academic institutions ⁠— continues to grapple with how to ensure diversity, equity, and inclusion at all levels. Join […] Tue Mar 29 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Perry Mehrling Perry Mehrling, Katharina Pistor Money and Empire: Charles P. Kindleberger and the Dollar System Perry Mehrling Moderated by Katharina Pistor Monday, February 21 | 12:00 to 1:00 PM ET The CGT Lunchtime Seminars are an informal forum for scholars to discuss current research assessing issues of global importance with members of the Columbia community, including students. Learn more about the […] Mon Feb 21 The Model International Mobility Convention: Migrants, Refugees and Responsibility Sharing Michael Doyle, Janine Prantl, Mark Wood, Dorothea Koehn THE COMMITTEE ON GLOBAL THOUGHT IS A PROUD CO-SPONSOR OF: The Model International Mobility Convention: Migrants, Refugees and Responsibility Sharing In this session Professor Michael Doyle, Dr. Janine Prantl and Mr. Mark Wood will be speaking about the Model International Mobility Convention and about responsibility-sharing by culpability and capability. Prof. Michael Doyle will begin the session by discussing the need for the convention as well […] Fri Feb 18 Youth in India and China: Hopes and Anxieties Amidst Global Change Vivan Marwaha, Zak Dychtwald, Dr. Vishakha N. Desai The Committee on Global Thought Presents: Youth in India and China: Hopes and Anxieties Amidst Global Change A Conversation Between Authors Zak Dychtwald and Vivan Marwaha Moderated by Dr. Vishakha N. Desai, Chair of CGT and President Emerita of Asia Society THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2022 | 9:00 AM – 10:00 AM ET Young people […] Thu Feb 17 How Rights Went Wrong: Why Our Obsession With Rights Is Tearing America Apart Jamal Greene THE COMMITTEE ON GLOBAL THOUGHT IS A PROUD CO-SPONSOR OF: Labor Rights in the Fissured, Gig, and Algorithmic Economy: Exploring the regulation of work and the protection of workers’ rights in the changing global economy Among the most vexing questions for modern times is how to think about the rights of individuals under conditions of […] Fri Feb 04 Labor Rights in the Fissured, Gig, and Algorithmic Economy: Exploring the regulation of work and the protection of workers’ rights in the changing global economy Kate Andrias , Ruth Dukes, Guy Mundlak, Brishen Rogers The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: Labor Rights in the Fissured, Gig, and Algorithmic Economy: Exploring the regulation of work and the protection of workers’ rights in the changing global economy Around the globe, the workplace is increasingly fissured and work has become ever more precarious as companies rely on subcontracting, […] Fri Jan 21 The Way Forward? Art Museums and the Age of Crises Vishakha N. Desai, Dr. Arjun Appadurai, Anne Pasternak, Kamini Sawhney, Matthew Teitelbaum The Committee on Global Thought Presents: The Way Forward? Art Museums and the Age of Crises Part of Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World, a project of the Committee on Global Thought Friday, December 10, 2021 | 11:00 AM – 12:30 PM ET Even before the Covid crisis forced museums to close […] Fri Dec 10 Technologies of Power Series | MEMORY | Praxis & Resistance Majd al-Shihabi, Emran Feroz, Sarah Hamid The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: MEMORY | Praxis & Resistance This year, as the US surpasses half a million deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic and domestic fascists attempt a coup, the country will also mark the 20th anniversary of the US-led Global War on Terror. How did global and national […] Fri Dec 03 WTO 2.0: The Return (to Prominence) Through the JSI: The road to renewed policy relevance for the multilateral trading regime passes through a re-orientation of its legislative activity, and the manner in which it will engage with free-trade area Petros C. Mavroidis, Brad McDonald, Michele Ruta The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: WTO 2.0: The Return (to Prominence) Through the JSI: The road to renewed policy relevance for the multilateral trading regime passes through a re-orientation of its legislative activity, and the manner in which it will engage with free-trade area The WTO (World Trade Organization) has […] Fri Dec 03 Technologies of Power Series | TRACE Zainab Bahrani , Rosie Bsheer, Priya Satia The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: TRACE This year, as the US surpasses half a million deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic and domestic fascists attempt a coup, the country will also mark the 20th anniversary of the US-led Global War on Terror. How did global and national politics coalesce into this […] Fri Nov 19 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Bernard E. Harcourt Bernard E. Harcourt, David K. Park On Worldly Philosophers and Cooperation Bernard E. Harcourt Moderated by David K. Park Friday, November 19 | 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM ET The CGT Lunchtime Seminars are an informal forum for scholars to discuss current research assessing issues of global importance with members of the Columbia community, including students. Learn more about the CGT […] Fri Nov 19 International Dispute Resolution: Transnational Litigation and International Arbitration George Bermann The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: International Dispute Resolution: Transnational Litigation and International Arbitration With the steady increase in international transactions and relationships comes an increase in international disputes. The principal means of resolving such disputes are litigation in national courts and international arbitration before a privately selected arbitrator or panel […] Fri Nov 12 Technologies of Power Series | OPACITY | The Arts of War Simone Browne, Ronak K. Kapadia, Nada Shabout The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: OPACITY | The Arts of War This year, as the US surpasses half a million deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic and domestic fascists attempt a coup, the country will also mark the 20th anniversary of the US-led Global War on Terror. How did global and […] Fri Nov 05 The Future of Liberal Democracy in the Era of Surveillance Capitalism and Digital Authoritarianism Anu Bradford The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: The Future of Liberal Democracy in the Era of Surveillance Capitalism and Digital Authoritarianism This lecture will examine the ideological origins, societal implications, as well as the relative global influence of three contrasting regulatory approaches towards the digital economy: the US’s techno-libertarianism, China’s digital authoritarianism, […] Fri Oct 29 Technologies of Power Series | ENCLOSURE | States of Surveillance Darren Byler, Charlton McIlwain, Helga Tawil-Souri The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: ENCLOSURE | States of Surveillance This year, as the US surpasses half a million deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic and domestic fascists attempt a coup, the country will also mark the 20th anniversary of the US-led Global War on Terror. How did global and national […] Fri Oct 22 The State of the World Economy in the Age of COVID and Beyond Adam Tooze, Raghuram Rajan The Committee on Global Thought presents: The State of the World Economy in the Age of COVID and Beyond A Conversation Between Raghuram Rajan and Adam Tooze Tuesday, October 19, 2021 | 5:30 – 6:30 PM ET Adam Tooze, CGT Member and author of “Shutdown: How Covid Shook the World’s Economy,” and Raghuram Rajan, Former […] Tue Oct 19 (Co-Sponsor) The Ascent of the Middlemen: How middlemen came to be the largest and most powerful companies in the world, why it matters, and what can be done Kathryn Judge The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: The Ascent of the Middlemen: How middlemen came to be the largest and most powerful companies in the world, why it matters, and what can be done Amazon and Walmart are the two biggest revenue generators and two biggest employers in the United States. Their […] Fri Oct 15 (Co-Sponsor) Technologies of Power Series | PLACE | Land & Geographies of Power The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: PLACE | Land & Geographies of Power This year, as the US surpasses half a million deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic and domestic fascists attempt a coup, the country will also mark the 20th anniversary of the US-led Global War on Terror. How did global […] Fri Oct 08 UCGT Global Thought Lab: Global Corporate Social Responsibility Chloe Autio, Khendrick Beausoleil, Morgan Grant The Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought Presents: Global Thought Lab A Conversation on Global Corporate Social Responsibility Thursday, October 7 | 5:30 – 6:30 PM ET Join the UCGT for an interactive discussion on the role of corporations and corporate interests in global social good in order to understand what their social responsibilities are, not […] Thu Oct 07 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Anjuli Fatima Raza Kolb Anjuli Fatima Raza Kolb, Joseph Slaughter Epidemic Empire: Colonialism, Contagion, and Terror, 1817-2020 Anjuli Fatima Raza Kolb Moderated by CGT Member Joseph Slaughter, Associate Professor of English and Comparative Literature, Columbia University Monday, October 4 | 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM ET The CGT Lunchtime Seminars are an informal forum for scholars to discuss current research assessing issues of global importance […] Mon Oct 04 Undergraduate Talk on Contested Memory and Mass Violence: Understanding the Experience of the Comfort Women Carol Gluck The Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought presents Talks with Professors Contested Memory and Mass Violence: Understanding the Experience of the Comfort Women Professor Carol Gluck Co-sponsored by the Alliance for Historical Dialogue and Accountability ﻿ In this second event in the Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought’s exploration of the Politics of Memory, Professor Carol Gluck […] Fri Oct 01 (Co-Sponsor) Toward Sustainable Corporate Governance: Where Are We Headed? At What Speed? John C. Coffee Jr. , Pierre-Henri Conac, Luca Enriques, Jennifer Hill The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: Toward Sustainable Corporate Governance: Where Are We Headed? At What Speed? Europe and the United States are moving in the same direction, but at different speeds, toward a model of sustainable corporate governance. In the United States, corporate law is a matter of state law […] Fri Oct 01 (Co-Sponsor) Technologies of Power Series | GEOPOLITICS | What is US Empire? Samar Al-Bulushi, Darryl Li, John Muthyala The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: GEOPOLITICS | What is US Empire? This year, as the US surpasses half a million deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic and domestic fascists attempt a coup, the country will also mark the 20th anniversary of the US-led Global War on Terror. How did global and […] Fri Sep 24 (Co-Sponsor) Harnessing Our Mutual Responsibilities to Solve Global Challenges The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: Harnessing Our Mutual Responsibilities to Solve Global Challenges 2021 “Rise or Fall Together” Interdependence Summit ﻿ As the Delta variant spreads across the world, a global end to the pandemic still seems far from clear. A recent climate change report provides a grim prognosis without […] Thu Sep 23 (Co-Sponsor) Is Global Capitalism Governable?: Exploring the legal, social, and economic complexities of governance in the 21st century Katharina Pistor, Olabisi D. Akinkugbe, Mariana Pargendler, Rashmi Venkatesan, Angela Zhang The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: Is Global Capitalism Governable?: Exploring the legal, social, and economic complexities of governance in the 21st century After the collapse of the socialist system, there seem to be no viable alternative to capitalism: A system based on private ordering of economic relations backed and arbitered […] Fri Sep 17 Technologies of Power Series | INTIMACY | The Intimacies of War Moazzam Begg, Nick Estes , Caren Kaplan The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: INTIMACY | The Intimacies of War This year, as the US surpasses half a million deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic and domestic fascists attempt a coup, the country will also mark the 20th anniversary of the US-led Global War on Terror. How did global and […] Fri Sep 10 Academic Resources Fair 2021 CGT at the 2021 Academic Resources Fair Join the Committee on Global Thought at the virtual 2021 Academic Resources Fair on August 31. Learn about our academic programs as well as opportunities for engagement at both the graduate and undergraduate level! Join here between 3 pm and 5 pm ET on August 31! Explore the […] Tue Aug 31 World As Family: Where is home? Organized by youth, for youth Vishakha N. Desai, Shagun Sethi, Junjie Ren, Yasmine Rejeb Join this conversation to explore the book “World As Family” and discuss multi rooted belonging with young people from across the globe! About this event A Vedic phrase asks us to “treat the world as family.” In our age of global crises—pandemics, climate crisis, crippling inequality—this sentiment is more necessary than ever. Through her personal […] Wed Jun 16 Columbia Global Book Series: “World as Family: A Journey of Multi-Rooted Belongings” with Vishakha Desai Vishakha N. Desai, Irina Bokova, Safwan M. Masri The Columbia Global Book Series Presents In association with the Committee on Global Thought World as Family: A Journey of Multi-Rooted Belongings Monday, June 7 | 12:00 PM – 1:00 PM ET A Vedic phrase asks us to “treat the world as family.” In our age of global crises—pandemics, climate crisis, crippling inequality—this sentiment is […] Mon Jun 07 ‘Mistakes Were Made’: Apologies and the Politics of Making Amends with Dr. Khatchig Mouradian Khatchig Mouradian The Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought Presents: Talks with Professors ‘Mistakes Were Made’: Apologies and the Politics of Making Amends with Dr. Khatchig Mouradian Friday, May 14 | 11:00 AM – 12:00 PM ET ﻿ Why do we apologize? What are the elements of an effective apology? When is an apology not an apology? Can […] Fri May 14 BOOK LAUNCH: World As Family: A Journey of Multi-Rooted Belongings Vishakha N. Desai, Fernando Reimers World As Family: A Journey of Multi-Rooted Belongings Friday, May 7, 2021, 12:00 PM ET CGT Chair Vishakha N. Desai will join Professor Fernando Reimers of Harvard University to discuss her new book, “World As Family: A Journey of Multi-Rooted Belongings.” A Vedic phrase asks us to “treat the world as family.” In our age […] Fri May 07 Vaccine Equity: The Interdependence Challenge of Our Time Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Dr. Margaret “Peggy” Hamburg One Shared World Presents: Vaccine Equity: The Interdependence Challenge of Our Time Talks with Professors | Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus & Dr. Margaret “Peggy” Hamburg Wednesday, May 5, 2021, 11:00 am-12:00 pm ET Although COVID-19 vaccines are showing tremendous efficacy against the SARS-CoV-2 virus, it’s becoming increasingly clear that a vaccination strategy that does not […] Wed May 05 Apocalypse Pending: Religion, Politics, and Social Media (Panel 4) Michael Butter, Marc-André Argentino, Camille Robcis The Society of Fellows and Heyman Center for the Humanities present: Apocalypse Pending: Religion, Politics, and Social Media Panel 4 Tuesday, April 20, 2021 2:00pm featuring Michael Butte and Marc-André Argentino, moderated by Camille Robcis “Apocalypse Pending: Religion, Politics, and Social Media” explores the growing popularity of conspiracy thinking in our current moment and its […] Tue Apr 20 Historical Dialogue: Interpretation and Telling the Story Banu Pekol, Johann Peiris, Kaltrina Krasniqi, Sarah C. Bishop The Committee on Global Thought and The Institute for the Study of Human Rights present Historical Dialogue Interpretation and Telling the Story Featuring Banu Pekol, Johann Peiris, Kaltrina Krasniqi; moderated by Sarah C. Bishop NEW DATE: Tuesday, April 20, 2021 11:00 AM – 12:15 PM The focus of this panel is to explore the multiple […] Tue Apr 20 Design Session with Professor Laura Neitzel Laura Neitzel Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought presents Design Session with Professor Laura Neitzel Thursday, April 15, 2021 | 8:00 PM to 9:00 PM ET Every Columbia University student needs to know about our interdependent and interconnected world regardless of major or future career goals. What do you need to learn about the world? How should we […] Thu Apr 15 Speaker Series: Racism & International Organizations with Miguel Ángel Moratinos Miguel Ángel Moratinos, Daniel Naujoks Racism and International Organizations 2021 Speaker Series Miguel Ángel Moratinos | April 14, 2021 | 1:00 – 2:00 PM ET About the Speaker H.E. Mr. Miguel Ángel Moratinos is the United Nations Under-Secretary-General holding the post of High Representative for the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC) since January 2019- present. In February 2020, Mr. […] Wed Apr 14 Master Class with Tala Hadid, Bette Gordon and Rosalind Morris Bette Gordon, Rosalind Morris, Tala Hadid MASTER CLASS WITH COLUMBIA SOA ALUMNA TALA HADID Friday, April 9 | 3:00 – 5:30 PM ET Hosted by Professors Bette Gordon (Film) and Rosalind Morris (Anthropology) Tala Hadid will discuss her film House in the Fields, a quiet and poetic documentary depicting rural life in Morocco’s Atlas Mountains. The film portrays the close relationship of […] Fri Apr 09 UCGT Core Committee Information Session UCGT Core Committee Information Session Thursday, April 8 | 8:00 PM ET The Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought invites you to join us for an information session about the Core Committee. Come learn how you can engage issues of global relevance to better address the challenges facing our world today; help shape how international affairs are thought […] Thu Apr 08 Radicalizing Her: Why Women Choose Violence Nimmi Gowrinathan, Dipali Mukhopadhyay, Lila Abu-Lughod A discussion of Radicalizing Her with author Dr. Nimmi Gowrinathan 4:15-5:45 pm EST, Monday, April 5 Respondent: Dipali Mukhodpadhyay (University of Minnesota) Moderator: Lila Abu-Lughod (Anthropology) Co-sponsored by the Institute for Research on Women, Gender, and Sexuality and the South Asia Institute Though the female fighter is often seen as an anomaly, women make up nearly […] Mon Apr 05 The Protest and The Recuperation: A Preview Hosted by the Wallach Art Gallery and the Forum The Forum is proud to partner with the Wallach Art Gallery to present a public preview of their summer 2021 exhibition, The Protest and The Recuperation, curated by Betti-Sue Hertz, Director and Chief Curator of the gallery. The exhibit, which features 10 contemporary artists from around the […] Sun Apr 04 Speaker Series: Racism & International Organizations with Noureddine Amir Noureddine Amir, Daniel Naujoks Racism and International Organizations 2021 Speaker Series Noureddine Amir | April 1, 2021 | 1:00 – 2:00 PM ET About the speaker: Dr. Noureddine Amir serves as chair of the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD) and chair of all UN human rights committees, a total of nine treaty bodies that oversee […] Thu Apr 01 Sex(ism) and the City: Gender bias in urban design Shagun Sethi, Juliana Velez Duque Sex(ism) and the City: Gender bias in urban design Shagun Sethi and Juliana Velez Duque Leading Cities is excited to showcase research fellows’ work on gender bias in urban design and the perception of safety in urban spaces. Tuesday, March 30, 2021 | 10:00 AM to 11:00 AM ET This webinar presents the research of […] Tue Mar 30 COVID: Notes From the First Year with a Gender Lens Khara Jabola-Carolus, Susana Martínez-Restrepo, Terry McGovern, Mignon Duffy COVID: Notes From the First Year with a Gender Lens Khara Jabola-Carolus, Susana Martínez-Restrepo, Terry McGovern, and Mignon Duffy Moderated by Yasmine Ergas, Director of the Specialization on Gender and Public Policy, Columbia University Thursday, March 25, 2021 | 6:00 PM to 7:30 PM ET As the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic ends and […] Thu Mar 25 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Ben Orlove Ben Orlove, Reinhold Martin The Concept of Adaptation Ben Orlove Moderated by Reinhold Martin, Professor of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation, Columbia University Tuesday, March 23, 2021 | 12:30 to 1:30 PM ET ﻿ Review Professor Orlove’s Presentation: ﻿ The CGT Lunchtime Seminars are an informal forum for scholars to discuss current research assessing issues of global importance with members […] Tue Mar 23 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Durba Mitra Durba Mitra, Yasmine Ergas Indian Sex Life: Sexuality and the Colonial Origins of Modern Social Thought Durba Mitra Moderated by Yasmine Ergas, Director of the Specialization on Gender and Public Policy, Columbia University Tuesday, March 16, 2021 | 12:30 PM to 1:30 PM ET The CGT Lunchtime Seminars are an informal forum for scholars to discuss current research assessing […] Tue Mar 16 Historical Dialogue: Space for Reconciliation Dilpreet Bhullar, James Miles, Simon Li, Felisa Tibbits The CGT is a proud co-sponsor of: The focus of this panel is to explore how to build spaces for reconciliation in narrow or shrinking civic spaces and what are the issues that are not being discussed in the panelists’ fields of work and their approach. Panelists: Dilpreet Bhullar, Associate Editor at the Visual Arts […] Mon Mar 15 Between Radical Promise & Despair: Dalit Literature & Movement in Karnataka Devanoora Mahadeva, Prithvi Datta Chandra Shobhi THE CGT IS PROUD TO CO-SPONSOR: Ambedkar Initiative, Spring 2021 Understanding Systemic Racism: Art and Politics Between Radical Promise & Despair: Dalit Literature & Movement in Karnataka Featuring Devanoora Mahadeva (writer) and Prithvi Datta Chandra Shobhi (KREA) Read the introductory statement and watch the archive of the Fall 2020 web series here. The Ambedkar lecture […] Thu Mar 11 Eight Ways of Thinking Unsettlement Listen to speaker voice notes at the tab above. Part of the project on Unsettlement, an initiative of the CGT A follow-up discussion to last November’s “Insecure Zones: Reflections from Africa and the Indian Ocean,” hosted by the Committee on Global Thought at Columbia University and the Wits Institute for Social and Economic Research (WISER), […] Thu Mar 04 Interdisciplinary Applications in Art, Museums and Collections The Committee on Global Thought is a proud co-sponsor of: REGISTER The focus of this panel is to explore the multiple ways to bring together the affected communities, specifically through oral histories and visual exhibitions. The panelists will discuss how oral history or visual art are used to understand the experiences of perpetrators and survivors […] Thu Feb 25 The Role of the Radical Writer Meena Kandasamy, Dhanya Addanki THE CGT IS PROUD TO CO-SPONSOR: Ambedkar Initiative, Spring 2021 Understanding Systemic Racism: Art and Politics The Role of the Radical Writer Featuring Meena Kandasamy (writer and activist), moderated by Dhanya Addanki (writer and archivist) Register here Read the introductory statement and watch the archive of the Fall 2020 web series here. The Ambedkar lecture […] Thu Feb 25 Katharina Pistor presents her book “The Code of Capital” at Festival Internazionale Katharina Pistor Katharina Pistor presents on her book “The Code of Capital”, available in all bookstores March 4th, on Saturday, February 20 at 6 pm at the Festival Internazionale. Click here for more information. Sat Feb 20 Tech for Social Good? Jessica Fjeld, G.S. Hans, Mark Hansen The Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought presents: Tech for Social Good? ﻿ The rapid rise of tech giants and information networks has had global consequences, from the information-sharing fueled rise of conspiracy-driven populism, to disparate calls for regulatory responses to disinformation and hate speech, to questions on how AI can be used to infringe upon […] Thu Feb 18 The Dalit Panthers and Literary Insurgence Suraj Yengde, Yogesh Maitreya THE CGT IS PROUD TO CO-SPONSOR: Ambedkar Initiative, Spring 2021 Understanding Systemic Racism: Art and Politics The Dalit Panthers and Literary Insurgence Featuring Suraj Yengde (Harvard University), Yogesh Maitreya (Panther’s Paw Publication), and others TBA Register here Read the introductory statement and watch the archive of the Fall 2020 web series here. The Ambedkar lecture series […] Thu Feb 18 Understanding Systemic Racism: Art and Politics (Web Series) Institute for Comparative Literature and Society The CGT is proud to co-sponsor: Ambedkar Initiative, Spring 2021 Understanding Systemic Racism: Art and Politics Web Series Read the introductory statement and watch the archive of the Fall 2020 web series here. Thursday, February 11 10:00-11:45 AM EST “Ambedkarite Aesthetics and Contemporary Art Practice” (WATCH) Yashadatta Alone (JNU) and Prabhakar Kamble (Mumbai-based artist and […] Thu Feb 11 The Loss of Hindustan: A Book Panel Manan Ahmed, Vishakha N. Desai, Purnima Dhavan, Ayesha Ramachandran A panel discussion with CGT Member Manan Ahmed (History) on his new book, The Loss of Hindustan: The Invention of India ﻿ Friday, January 29, 10:10am – 12:00pm Panelists: Vishakha N. Desai (Chair, Committee on Global Thought) Purnima Dhavan (History, University of Washington) Ayesha Ramachandran (Comparative Literature, Yale University) Co-sponsored by the Committee on Global […] Fri Jan 29 Interdependence in Action: Building a New Framework for Solving Global Problems James Mwangi, G. John Ikenberry, Omar Almutawa The Committee on Global Thought is proud to sponsor: Interdependence in Action: Building a New Framework for Solving Global Problems On Thursday, December 17th from 9:00-10:00am EDT, come hear from distinguished global leaders and experts, including James Mwangi, Executive Director of Dalberg, G. John Ikenberry, Princeton Professor of Politics and International Affairs, and Omar Almutawa, former […] Thu Dec 17 The Perilous Public Square: Structural Threats to Free Expression Today Americans of all political persuasions fear that “free speech” is under attack. This may seem strange at a time when legal protections for free expression remain strong and overt government censorship minimal. Yet a range of political, economic, social, and technological developments have raised profound challenges for how we manage speech. New threats to political […] Mon Dec 14 Light in Dark Times: Alisse Waterson & Charlotte Hollands in Conversation with Naeem Mohaiemen Hosted by The Society of Fellows and Heyman Center for the Humanities At a time when young people are questioning academic studies’ relevance in a dark world, anthropologist Alisse Waterson and artist Charlotte Hollands have teamed up to create a Graphic Novel Light in Dark Times: The Human Search of Meaning – a unique merging of drawing, anthropology, […] Fri Dec 11 Re-think, Re-imagine, Re-invent: Higher Education for a Changing World Global Youth Summit Presented by Youth in a Changing World, an initiative of the CGT Outreach Partners: Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought, Columbia Global Centers Rio de Janeiro, Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal REGISTER Fri Dec 04 Insecure Zones: Reflections from Africa and the Indian Ocean Part of the project on Unsettlement, an initiative of the CGT This joint workshop constitutes the inaugural event in the new program of ‘Critical Concepts and Regional Issues’ of the Project on ‘Unsettlement’, hosted by the Committee on Global Thought at Columbia University, and co-sponsored by the Wits Institute for Social and Economic Research (WISER), and the Department […] Thu Nov 12 From the Local to the Global: Business, Debt, Coronavirus Saskia Sassen, Perry Mehrling, The Hon. Elizabeth S. Stong, Antonia Menezes Hosted by the Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought Presented in conjunction with the Alexander Hamilton Society and the Columbia University Journal for Politics & Society Throughout the country, and the world, the coronavirus has devastated small businesses. Thousands have already shuttered their doors, and millions more face closure and bankruptcy in the coming and months. […] Wed Oct 28 On the Edge of the Settled World Carlos Fernando Chamorro Barrios, Nikos Pilos, Shahidul Alam, Rosalind C. Morris Hosted by the project on Unsettlement, an initiative of the Committee on Global Thought Outreach Partners: Columbia School of the Arts; The Society of Fellows and Heyman Center for the Humanities Today, millions of people are stranded in states of permanent displacement. They live in places that lack infrastructures of permanence, but must often reside there […] Thu Oct 22 Democracy and AI: Civics in a New Age Tim Hwang The UCGT presents: A Conversation with Tim Hwang How is the influence of big tech and artificial intelligence on governing systems evolving? What are some of the most pressing associated challenges for liberal democracy? How will these forces shape geopolitics? Join the Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought for a conversation with FiscalNote Founder and CEO […] Wed Oct 21 Partner Program: Memorial to Enslaved Laborers Gregg Bleam, Franklin Dukes, Eric Höweler, Eto Otitigbe, Diane Brown Townes, Mabel O. Wilson, Meejin Yoon, Farah Jasmine Griffin Thursday, October 8, 6:30 pm Register This conversation explores the history, form, and process behind the creation of the powerful new Memorial to Enslaved Laborers at the University of Virginia. The grounds—designed by Thomas Jefferson and now recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site—were built and maintained by 4000 enslaved men, women, and children. The […] Thu Oct 08 Contested Legacies: Public Monuments in Global Perspective Marie-Louise Jansen, Shahid Vawda, Zeynep Çelik, Colin Wayne Leach, Vishakha N. Desai, Harriet F. Senie, Ravina Aggarwal Part of Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World, an initiative of the Committee on Global Thought Made possible through the generous support of the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts A discussion with scholars and activists on the various issues surrounding the removal of public monuments across the globe in the wake of […] Thu Oct 08 Rise or Fall Together: The OneShared.World Interdependence Summit 2020 Vishakha N. Desai Event Video https://youtu.be/eMIKtR56-gw — The CGT is excited to share news about its partnership with OneShared.World on their upcoming RISE OR FALL TOGETHER: The OneShared.World Interdependence Summit 2020! CGT Chair Vishakha Desai joins some of the world’s most inspiring people, including World Health Organization COVID-19 coordinator David Nabarro, National Geographic Explorer and leading environmentalist Enric […] Thu Sep 17 Turning Points: Joseph Stiglitz and Thomas Piketty in Dialogue Joseph Stiglitz, Thomas Piketty, Sylvie Kauffmann Turning Points: Joseph Stiglitz and Thomas Piketty in Dialogue Moderated by Sylvie Kauffmann A live virtual transatlantic event September, 10th 2020 | 1:00-2:15 pm EST (New York) | 19:00-20:15 GMT+2 (Paris) REGISTER HERE *This is a simulcast event to be broadcast live on Zoom and also on YouTube and Facebook. A simultaneous French translation will be […] Thu Sep 10 Cities at War: Global Insecurity and Urban Resistance Mary Kaldor, Saskia Sassen, Steve Coll, Safwan Masri Warfare in the twenty-first century goes well beyond conventional armies and nation- states. In a world of diffuse conflicts taking place across sprawling cities, war has become fragmented and uneven to match its settings. Yet the analysis of failed states, civil war, and state building rarely considers the city, rather than the country, as the […] Tue Aug 11 Roma and the Global: The Contemporary Context Vishakha N. Desai, Christiana Grigore Event description courtesy of the Roma Peoples Project at Columbia University. This special event for the Roma Peoples Project’s online educational festival—On Roma Matters & Other Compelling Stories—is a conversation between Dr. Vishakha Desai and Roma Peoples Project founder, Cristiana Grigore. Building on Dr. Desai’s expertise in the field of global thought, the conversation will […] Fri Jun 26 Uptown People’s Assembly Vishakha N. Desai View the recording of the event: The Committee on Global Thought is proud to participate in the Uptown People’s Assembly hosted by Columbia University’s Wallach Art Gallery. The event will act as a generative space of listening and sharing as the United States and the world face the two raging pandemics of public health and […] Fri Jun 12 The Ages of Globalization Book Launch Jeffrey D. Sachs, David Lawler, Safwan Masri David Lawler in conversation with Jeffrey D. Sachs. Chaired by Safwan Masri. View the video of the event here. Today’s most urgent problems are fundamentally global. They require nothing less than concerted, planet wide action if we are to secure a long-term future. But humanity’s story has always been on a global scale. In his […] Fri Jun 05 Lunchtime Seminar: The Morals of the Market: Human Rights and Neoliberalism Jessica Whyte , Joseph Slaughter Join Professor Jessica Whyte of the University of New South Wales as she discusses her new book, The Morals of the Market. Drawing on detailed archival research on the parallel histories of human rights and neoliberalism, Professor Whyte uncovers the place of human rights in neoliberal attempts to develop a moral framework for a market […] Thu Mar 05 UCGT: Paths to Litigating Human and Civil Rights Hannah Flamm, Alexia D. Korberg, The Hon. Elizabeth S. Stong Every day, litigators in the United States fight against encroachments on people’s human and civil rights. Guest speakers Hannah Flamm, Managing Attorney, Detained Minors Project at The Door’s Legal Services Center, and Alexia D. Korberg, Partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, discussed their career paths and work. Hannah represents detained and non-detained youth […] Tue Feb 25 The Politics of The MET’s Native America Exhibition On February 7, 2020, the Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought hosted a behind-the-scenes curated tour of Art of Native America: The Charles and Valerie Diker Collection to examine the implications of presenting masterworks from Indigenous North American cultures within the Euro-American collections of the museum’s American Wing. Click here to see more pictures from the […] Fri Feb 07 Born to Be: Film Screening and Panel Discussion On February 5, 2020, the Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought (UCGT), GSAlliance, and the Columbia University Science Journal presented a screening of the film Born to Be. This acclaimed documentary from director Tania Cypriano and Producer Michelle Koo Hayashi follows the work of Dr. Jess Ting at the groundbreaking Mt. Sinai Center for Transgender Medicine […] Wed Feb 05 M.A. in Global Thought Early Application Deadline Early Application Deadline is January 31, 2020 Fri Jan 31 Human Rights Book Talk: “For the Love of Humanity: The World Tribunal on Iraq” with Ayça Çubukçu Ayça Çubukçu The global anti-war movement against the invasion and occupation of Iraq crystallized on February 15, 2003, when millions of people simultaneously demonstrated in six hundred cities around the world. The World Tribunal on Iraq (WTI) emerged from this global anti-war movement “to tell and disseminate the truth about the Iraq war.” Between 2003 and 2005, […] Wed Jan 29 Cultures in Conversation: “Re-Imagining the College Experience” Cultures in Conversation: “Re-Imagining the College Experience” Thursday, December 5, 2019 • 7:30-9PM Columbia University, International Affairs Building, Room 918 Open only to undergraduates On December 5th, the Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought hosted a roundtable discussion on reimagining the college experience, thinking critically about who college is for, what purpose it serves, and whether […] Thu Dec 05 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor Vishakha N. Desai Professor Vishakha N. Desai Politics of Art Museums in a Changing World with Professor Vishakha N. Desai Wednesday, October 30, 2019 • 6-7PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 Open only to undergraduates The Talks with Professors series allows undergraduate students to engage in casual and meaningful conversations with distinguished scholars in a laid-back, informal setting. Students joined Vishakha […] Wed Oct 30 Global Think-In: The Code of Capital Katharina Pistor, Adam Tooze, Jean Cohen, Carol Gluck Global Think-in: The Code of Capital Monday, October 21, 2019 · 4:30pm – 6:00pm Jerome Greene Annex · 410 West 117 Street Katharina Pistor | Edwin B. Parker Professor of Comparative Law Adam Tooze | Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of History; Director of the European Institute; Member of the Committee on Global Thought […] Mon Oct 21 Honorable Just David Smuts of the Supreme Court of Namibia in conversation about his new book Honorable Just David Smuts Honorable Just David Smuts of the Supreme Court of Namibia in conversation about his new book Thursday, October 17, 2019 · 6:10 PM Room 753 Schermerhorn Extension, Columbia University No registration required Honorable Just David F. Smuts is Namibia’s most renowned human rights lawyer. In the 1980s, Smuts took on South Africa’s apartheid regime, and […] Thu Oct 17 Art, Politics, Museums: New Issues, New Actors Richard Armstrong, Betti-Sue Hertz, Alisa LaGamma, Vishakha N. Desai ﻿ Arts, Politics, Museums: New Issues, New Actors Tuesday, October 15, 2019 · 6:30pm – 8:00pm Columbia University Journalism School – Pulitzer Hall – World Room Richard Armstrong | Director, The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and Foundation Betti-Sue Hertz | Director and Chief Curator, Wallach Art Gallery, Columbia University Alisa LaGamma | Ceil and Michael […] Tue Oct 15 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor Frank Guridy Frank Guridy Sports and Politics in a Time of Political Polarization with Frank Guridy Monday, September 23, 2019 • 6-7PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 Open only to undergraduates The Talks with Professors series allows undergraduate students to engage in casual and meaningful conversations with distinguished scholars in a laid-back, informal setting. Students joined Frank Guridy, […] Mon Sep 23 World Leaders Forum: United Nations Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth Jayathma Wickramanayake, Vishakha N. Desai (Moderator) United Nations Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth Jayathma Wickramanayake Tuesday, September 17, 2019 4 – 5 PM Rotunda, Low Memorial Library This World Leaders Forum program featured an address by Jayathma Wickramanayake, United Nations Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth. This was followed by a question and answer session with the audience. Moderated by Vishakha N. Desai, Vice […] Tue Sep 17 Undergraduate: “Map of the World” at The Asia Society Click to sign up for this FREE guided tour + lunch Open only to undergraduates. Fri May 03 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Nikhar Gaikwad Nikhar Gaikwad, Vishakha N. Desai Attitudes Toward Globalization in Ranked Ethnic Societies Nikhar Gaikwad Moderated by Vishakha N. Desai May 2, 2019 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to present current research characterizing and assessing issues of global importance. Learn more […] Thu May 02 Tällberg Global Leaders Programming Pastor Nicolas Guérékoyame-Gbangou, Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy, Rafael Yuste World Leaders Forum: Shaping the Future A Conversation with The 2018 Tällberg / Eliasson Global Leaders April 11, 2019 · 6:30-8 PM Italian Academy Teatro Pastor Nicolas Guérékoyame-Gbangou, President of the Evangelical Alliance of the Central African Republic; Founder of the Plateforme des Confessions Religieuses de Centrafrique (PCRC) Professor Rafael Yuste, Professor of Biological Sciences and Neuroscience, Columbia University in […] Thu Apr 11 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Tori Gross Tori Gross, Mamadou Diouf Resurgent Heroes and Resistance to State Power: Caste and Politics in South India Tori Gross Moderated by Mamadou Diouf April 4, 2019 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to present current research characterizing and assessing […] Thu Apr 04 Art in Contested Political and Cultural Terrains, Asia MC Kash, Tenzing Rigdol, Maria Madeira, Seckon Leang, Vishakha N. Desai Art in Contested Political and Cultural Terrains, Asia Wednesday March 27, 2019 · 6:30pm – 8:00pm Columbia University – Faculty House – Seminar Room 1, 2nd floor MC Kash, Hip-hop singer from Kashmir Tenzing Rigdol, Painter, poet, visual artist from Tibet Maria Madeira, Painter, visual artist from Timor-Leste Seckon Leang, Painter, performer and visual artist from […] Wed Mar 27 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Kian Tajbakhsh Kian Tajbakhsh, Navid Zarrinnal What Are Iranians Dreaming About Today? Reflections on the Islamic Revolution at 40 Kian Tajbakhsh Moderated by Navid Zarrinnal March 14, 2019 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to present current research characterizing and assessing issues […] Thu Mar 14 Leading Change in Our Communities Rodrigo Rubido Alonso, Laura Neitzel Leading Change in Our Communities with Rodrigo Rubido Alonso Moderated by Laura Neitzel Friday, March 1, 2019 • 11AM – 12PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 About the Speaker Rodrigo Rubido Alonso is an architect, co-founder and executive director of Instituto Elos, a nonprofit organization based in Santos, Brazil dedicated to training and stimulating […] Fri Mar 01 New Americans in New York City: A Conversation with Activist & Author Sayu Bhojwani Sayu Bhojwani, Laura Neitzel New Americans in New York City: A Conversation with Activist & Author Sayu Bhojwani Moderated by Laura Neitzel, CGT Academic Director Wednesday, February 13, 2019 • 6-7PM Columbia University, International Affairs Building, Room 707 Open only to Columbia and Barnard students Activist and author Sayu Bhojwani visited Columbia and spoke about immigration in New York […] Wed Feb 13 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor Souleymane Bachir Diagne Souleymane Bachir Diagne Decolonizing the History of Philosophy with Souleymane Bachir Diagne Wednesday, December 5, 2018 • 6-7PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 513 Open only to undergraduates The Talks with Professors series allows undergraduate students to engage in casual and meaningful conversations with distinguished scholars in a laid-back, informal setting. Join Souleymane Bachir Diagne, Professor of French […] Wed Dec 05 Signature Research: “Politics of Visual Arts” Workshop Vishakha N. Desai (Moderator), Magnus Ag, Erin Thompson Politics of Visual Arts Workshop Tuesday, December 4, 2018 • 4:30-6PM Columbia University, Low Library, Room 206 (Burden Room) Closed door workshop Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World: New Actors, New Methods by Vishakha N. Desai, Vice Chair, Committee on Global Thought Arts have been periodically, but consistently, subjected to political pressures. Generally, the […] Tue Dec 04 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Hafsa Kanjwal Hafsa Kanjwal, Manan Ahmed State-Formation in a ‘Disputed Territory’: The Case of Naya (New) Kashmir Hafsa Kanjwal Moderated by Manan Ahmed November 8, 2018 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to present current research characterizing and assessing issues of global […] Thu Nov 08 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Ben Orlove Ben Orlove, Lisa Dale Climate Change and Discursive Change: Tracing Terms and Concepts through International Climate Organizations Ben Orlove Moderated by Lisa Dale November 1, 2018 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to present current research characterizing and assessing issues […] Thu Nov 01 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Erin Thompson Erin Thompson, Neil K. Aggarwal ‘APPROVED BY US FORCES’: Showing and Hiding Art from Guantaìnamo Erin Thompson Moderated by Neil K. Aggarwal October 25, 2018 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to present current research characterizing and assessing issues of global importance. […] Thu Oct 25 Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances in the 21st Century Bernard Duhaime, Agnès Callamard Bernard Duhaime on “Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances in the 21st Century” October 19, 2018 · 12:10-1:30 Columbia University, Hamilton Hall, Room 309 Nearly two weeks ago, journalist Jamal Khashoggi stepped into the consulate of Saudi Arabia in Istanbul. He has not been seen since. Unfortunately, this incident is not a unique phenomenon. There is a long […] Fri Oct 19 Image and Counter-Image: Dreaming Borders, Unthinking Migration Stefania Pandolfo, Leila Kilani, Rosalind Morris A Workshop with Professor Stefania Pandolfo and Filmmaker Leila Kilani Part of the “Unsettlement” Research Project of the Committee on Global Thought Thursday, October 18, 2018 • 12-2PM Columbia University, Knox Hall, Room 208 In recent years, the Maghreb and the Middle East entered a phase of upheavals and transformations, which shifted from the imagination of possible […] Thu Oct 18 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor Neil K. Aggarwal Neil K. Aggarwal Cultural Analysis In and Of Mental Health Approaches to the War on Terror with Neil K. Aggarwal October 4, 2018 • 6-7 PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 513 Open only to undergraduates The Talks with Professors series allows undergraduate students to engage in casual and meaningful conversations with distinguished scholars in a laid-back, informal setting. […] Thu Oct 04 1968 in 2018: Geographies and Temporalities of Mai 68 Imen Amiri, Ludivine Bantigny, Françoise Blum, Julian Bourg, Souleymane Bachir Diagne, Frédéric Gros, Kristin Ross, Emmanuelle Saada 1968 in 2018: Geographies and Temporalities of Mai 68 April 27, 2018 • 1:00-5:00PM Columbia University, Buell Hall, East Gallery Imen Amiri, Ludivine Bantigny, Françoise Blum, Julian Bourg, Souleymane Bachir Diagne, Frédéric Gros, Kristin Ross, and Emmanuelle Saada Revolts, revolutions and calls to resistance have shaped the 2010s globally. In this context, the 50th anniversary of Mai 68 calls less for a […] Fri Apr 27 Undergraduate: You(th) be the Change: A Special Workshop for Undergraduates Vishakha N. Desai You(th) be the Change A Special Workshop for Undergraduates in Conjunction with the “Youth in a Changing World” Research Project of the Committee on Global Thought Tuesday, April 10, 2018 • 6-8PM Columbia University, Kent Hall, Room 403 What issues in the world today are of the greatest concern to youth? Can youth “be the change”? This […] Tue Apr 10 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Ursula Staudinger Ursula Staudinger, Yasmine Ergas As You Sow, So Shall You Reap: Gender-Role Attitudes and Late-Life Cognition Professor Ursula Staudinger Moderated by Yasmine Ergas April 5, 2018 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to present current research characterizing and assessing issues […] Thu Apr 05 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Peter Marcotullio Peter Marcotullio, Joel Cohen Climate Change and Urban Heat: Exploring Patterns and Factors of Future Global Vulnerability Professor Peter Marcotullio Moderated by Joel Cohen, Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences March 29, 2018 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to […] Thu Mar 29 Nation Building: Why Some Countries Come Together While Others Fall Apart Andreas Wimmer, Jack Snyder, Gwyneth McClendron, Deborah Yashar, Prerna Singh, Shamus Khan Nation Building: Why Some Countries Come Together While Others Fall Apart Andreas Wimmer in conversation with Jack Snyder, Gwyneth McClendron, Deborah Yashar, and Prerna Singh, moderated by Shamus Khan March 27, 2018 • 6:00-7:30PM Columbia University, Buell Hall, East Gallery About the Book Why is national integration achieved in some diverse countries, while others are destabilized […] Tue Mar 27 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Esteban Calvo Esteban Calvo, Ursula Staudinger From Cells to Society: Rethinking Public Policy in a Changing World Assistant Professor Esteban Calvo Moderated by Ursula Staudinger March 8, 2018 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to present current research characterizing and assessing issues […] Thu Mar 08 The Counterrevolution: How Our Government Went to War Against its Own Citizens Bernard Harcourt The Counterrevolution: How Our Government Went to War Against its Own Citizens by Bernard E. Harcourt February 27, 2018 • 6:00-7:30PM Columbia University, Buell Hall, East Gallery About the Book Militarized police officers with tanks and drones. Pervasive government surveillance and profiling. Social media that distract and track us. All of these, contends Bernard Harcourt, […] Tue Feb 27 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Akeel Bilgrami Akeel Bilgrami Some Philosophical Reflections on Our Political Ideals Professor Akeel Bilgrami February 22, 2018 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to present current research characterizing and assessing issues of global importance. Read more about the CGT Lunchtime […] Thu Feb 22 Brexit: A Leap in the Dark? Simon Coveney, David Madigan, Adam Tooze Brexit: A Leap in the Dark? Simon Coveney, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Ireland February 21, 2018 • 6:30-7:45PM Columbia University, Low Library Faculty Room About the Event Featured Simon Coveney, Deputy Prime Minister & Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Ireland. Opening remarks by David Madigan, Executive Vice President and Dean […] Wed Feb 21 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Bernard E. Harcourt Bernard E. Harcourt What Is To Be Done? After the Illusions, A Critical Practice for the Twenty-First Century Professor Bernard E. Harcourt Moderated by Carol Gluck December 7, 2017 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to discuss current research […] Thu Dec 07 UCGT Design Session: Global 20 Laura Neitzel Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought Design Session: Global 20 Youth in an Interconnected World Thursday November 30, 2017 · 4:30 – 6:00 PM Lerner East Ramp Lounge What does it mean to be 20 years old in today’s rapidly changing, interconnected world? This design session provided a unique platform for students to brainstorm and influence […] Thu Nov 30 2017 Tällberg Global Leaders Student Workshops Jan Eliasson, Rebecca Heller, Fiorenzo Omenetto, Rodrigo Rubido Alonso, Bright Simons World Leaders Forum featuring Jan Eliasson: Global Leadership in the 21st Century Undergraduate and Graduate Student Workshops Learn how to affect change in your community and in the world November 29, 2017 · 1:30 – 3:00 PM We live at an exciting time: most of the assumptions that underpinned the post war and then the […] Wed Nov 29 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Venkat Venkatasubramanian Venkat Venkatasubramanian, Bernard E. Harcourt How Much Inequality is Fair? Mathematical Principles of a Moral, Optimal, and Stable Capitalist Society Professor Venkat Venkatasubramanian Moderated by Bernard E. Harcourt November 9, 2017 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to discuss current research […] Thu Nov 09 Cinema of Resistance: Swagger by Olivier Babinet Film screening followed by a panel discussion with director Olivier Babinet Thu Oct 26 Fight the Power: A Global Conversation Exploring Hip-Hop and Social Consciousness Jonzi D, Lanre Malaolu, Salah, Bee D, Mamadou Diouf Dancers from the Apollo’s International Festival, Breakin Convention, join Mamadou Diouf, Columbia Professor of African Studies, to reflect on music’s impact on their lives and the politics of its local communities. Wed Oct 25 Cinema of Resistance: The Assembly by Mariana Otero Film screening followed by a panel discussion with CGT Member Barnard E. Harcourt and Etienne Balibar Tue Oct 24 Cinema of Resistance: Mustang by Deniz Gamze Ergüven Film screening followed by a panel discussion with Alessia Palanti and curator Nora Philippe Mon Oct 23 Cinema of Resistance: The Army of Shadows by Jean-Pierre Melville Film screening followed by a panel discussion with Professor Richard Pena and Emeritus Professor Robert Paxton Thu Oct 19 Cinema of Resistance: The Commune (Paris, 1871) by Peter Watkins Film screening with introduction by Professor Emmanuelle Saada Tue Oct 17 Cinema of Resistance: The Battle of Algiers by Gillo Pontecorvo Ffilm screening followed by a panel discussion with Professor Madeleine Dobe and curator Nora Philippe Fri Oct 13 Cinema of Resistance: Tahrir: Liberation Square by Stefano Savona Film screening followed by a panel discussion with Professor Jane Gaines and curator Nora Philippe Thu Oct 12 The ‘Migration Crisis’ in Europe and the Current Global Predicament Sandro Mezzadra, Etienne Balibar, Rosalind Morris Professors Sandro Mezzadra, Etienne Balibar, and Rosalind Morris will discuss “The ‘Migration Crisis’ in Europe and The Current Global Predicament.” Thu Oct 12 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Mark Mazower Mark Mazower The Rise of the Bolsheviks: Uncovering a Family View Professor Mark Mazower October 12, 2017 · 12-1PM Columbia University, Fayerweather Hall, Room 411 The Committee on Global Thought (CGT) Lunchtime Seminars are a forum for Columbia University faculty and visiting scholars to discuss current research characterizing and assessing issues of global importance. About the speaker Mark […] Thu Oct 12 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor Partha Chatterjee Partha Chatterjee The Talks with Professors series allows students to engage in casual and meaningful conversations with distinguished scholars in a laid-back, informal setting. Participation open to Columbia University students only. Fri Sep 29 World Leaders Forum: Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba Right Honourable Sher Bahadur Deuba UNDERGRADUATE WORKSHOP: In advance of Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba’s appearance, the Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought presented a workshop with Professor Mara Green on Wednesday, September 20, from 2:15PM – 3:15PM. Thu Sep 21 Undergraduate: What Are Your Thoughts on a Changing World? Neil Aggarwal, Patricia Culligan, Vishakha N. Desai, Carol Gluck, Bernard Harcourt, Rosalind C. Morris, David K. Park, Kian Tajbakhsh What are your Thoughts on a Changing World? An Open Forum with Columbia Faculty September 13, 2017 • 6-8PM Columbia University, Kent Hall, Room 403 The Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought (UCGT) presented its first event of the semester, a lively discussion among undergraduates and faculty about youth in our changing world. What are YOUR thoughts on a changing world? […] Wed Sep 13 Global Thought Lab: Thoughts on the Democratization of Information Vishakha Desai Thoughts on the Democratization of Information April 19, 2017 • 6-7PM Broadway Hall Lounge, 14th Floor West Of the series Thoughts on a Changing World, an initiative organized by the Committee on Global Thought to gather and access at a local and global scale the issues of current and urgent attention, the Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought’s […] Wed Apr 19 Faculty Forum: Who Gets to Speak? Regulated Speech in a Global Context Agnès Callamard, David Schulz “Who Gets to Speak?” Mon Apr 10 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Weiping Wu Weiping Wu “China’s Urban Transformation” Thu Apr 06 Beyond the Secular West Akeel Bilgrami, Prasenjit Duara, Sudipta Kaviraj A Book Talk on Akeel Bilgrami’s “Beyond the Secular West” Fri Mar 24 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Neil Krishan Aggarwal Neil Krishan Aggarwal “The Commander of the Faithful in Islamic History and the Taliban-Islamic State Rivalry” Thu Mar 23 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Reinhold Martin Reinhold Martin “The Urban Apparatus: Mediapolitics and the City” Thu Feb 23 #bringbackourgirls Helon Habila , Brian Larkin, Shobana Shankar, Nicholas Lemann A discourse on Islamist militancy in Africa. Tue Dec 06 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Vegard Skirbekk Vegard Skirbekk “Differences in Aging Across Cultures: A Global Perspective” Thu Dec 01 Turkey in the World Orhan Pamuk, N. Turkuler Isiksel, Mark Mazower, Carol Gluck A Global Hot Spot on Turkey Mon Nov 21 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Henry Rousso Henry Rousso, Carol Gluck “The Latest Catastrophe: History, the Present, the Contemporary” Thu Nov 17 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Rosalind Morris Rosalind Morris “Migrancy and Unsettlement” Fri Nov 11 Til Debt Do Us Part Bob Swarup, Perry G. Mehrling Lessons for a deglobalizing world from the last 25 centuries of financial crisis Thu Nov 10 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Saeed Naqvi Saeed Naqvi “Being the Other: The Muslim in India” Thu Nov 10 Global Think-in: Populisms Now John Judis, Federico Finchelstein, Xiaobo Lu, Nadia Urbinati, Lawrence Liang, Carol Gluck A Global Think-in on the global populism phenomenon Mon Oct 31 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Brian Larkin Brian Larkin “Generators, Electricity and the Infrastructural Life of Cities” Thu Oct 27 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Joseph R. Slaughter Joseph R. Slaughter “Hijacking Human Rights: Neoliberalism and the End of the Third World” Thu Oct 06 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Kian Tajbakhsh Kian Tajbakhsh “The Limits of Global Thought: Western Social and Human Sciences on Trial” Thu Sep 22 Undergraduate: “Talk with Professor” Rashid Khalidi Rashid Khalidi “Revisiting Palestine’s History” Wed Sep 21 Commencement 2016 The University Commencement ceremony of the 262nd Academic Year. Wed May 18 GSAS Convocation Andrew Gelman This ceremony celebrates the accomplishments of all MA candidates in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Class of 2016. Sun May 15 CGT Presidential Reception Lee C. Bollinger, Carol Gluck, Vishakha N. Desai A reception to celebrate a decade of activities and research of the Committee on Global Thought with its founder, President Lee C. Bollinger. Tue May 10 Global Money: Past, Present, Future Adam Tooze, Perry G. Mehrling, Patricia C. Mosser, Phil Prince, Katharina Pistor A Global Think-in on the past, present, and future of the global monetary system. Mon Apr 25 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor Jonathan R. Cole Jonathan R. Cole Join Professor Jonathan R. Cole, a prominent professor in the sociology of science for a conversation on “Trigger Warnings: Freedom of Academic Inquiry”. The Talks with Professors series allows students to engage in casual and meaningful conversations with distinguished scholars in a laid-back, informal setting. Registration open to Columbia University students only. Mon Apr 11 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor Kimberly Marten Kimberly Marten The Talks with Professors series allows students to engage in casual and meaningful conversations with distinguished scholars in a laid-back, informal setting. Registration open to Columbia University students only. Fri Apr 01 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Jérôme Sgard Jérôme Sgard The Construction of a Global Institution: International commercial arbitration, 1890-1960 Tue Mar 29 Undergraduate: Global Thought Lab on Global Philanthropy This Global Thought Lab on Global Philanthropy gave students the opportunity to discuss the influences of global philanthropic ventures abroad. Sat Mar 26 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Andreas Wimmer Andreas Wimmer Nation Building: Why some countries came together while others fell apart Tue Mar 22 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor Geert Somsen Geert Somsen Join Professor Geert Somsen, a prominent professor in the history of science, for a conversation on “Science and World Order.” The Talks with Professors series allows students to engage in casual and meaningful conversations with distinguished scholars in a laid-back, informal setting. Registration open to Columbia University students only. Fri Feb 19 World Leaders Forum with President Sergio Mattarella His Excellency Sergio Mattarella UNDERGRADUATE WORKSHOP: In advance of President Mattarella’s appearance, the Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought presents a workshop with Professor Alessandra Casella on Saturday, February 6, from 10-11AM. Thu Feb 11 Planes, Trains, and Root Canals Sasha Issenberg, Michael Doyle, Nicholas Lemann Medical tourism is growing rapidly. The question is whether it represents the future of healthcare, which traditionally, has been a core responsibility of national governments. Wed Feb 10 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Souleymane Bachir Diagne Souleymane Bachir Diagne Souleymane Bachir Diagne will discuss the ideological formation of the state in various traditions of Islam and indicate what factors have contributed to the range of ways in which Islamic traditions govern, are governed, and ideologically participate in integrating the identities of the faithful as Muslims and as citizens. Tue Feb 09 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Richard W. Bulliet Richard W. Bulliet Richard W. Bulliet discussed his new book, “The Wheel: Inventions and Reinventions,” focusing on the three major phases in the evolution of the wheel and their relationship to the needs and ambitions of human society. Tue Jan 26 Global Exposure Bernard Harcourt, Betsy Reed, Clive Thompson, Judith McHale, David K. Park Exploiting our boundless desire to access everything all the time, digital technology is breaking down whatever boundaries still exist between the state, the market, and the private realm. ‘Global Exposure’ offers a powerful critique of our new virtual transparence, revealing just how unfree we are becoming and how little we seem to care. Wed Dec 09 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor David Albert David Albert Renowned philosophy Professor David Albert joined the UCGT for a conversation on “The Nature of Time: Intersecting Physics and Philosophy.” Tue Dec 01 Global Citizenship: A Discussion with Atossa Abrahamian Atossa Araxia Abrahamian, Nicholas Lemann, Rosalind C. Morris, Joseph O’Neill The buying and selling of citizenship has become a thriving business in just a few years. Entrepreneurs and libertarians are renouncing America and Europe in favor of tax havens like Singapore and the Caribbean. But as journalist Atossa Araxia Abrahamian discovered, the story of twenty-first-century citizenship is bigger than millionaires seeking their next passport. Tue Nov 17 The 1754 Society Amelia Alverson, Kenneth A. Forde, Vishakha N. Desai, Mamadou Diouf, Wafaa El-Sadr, Carol Gluck, Jeffrey Niu, Wei Qing Tan, Adam Tooze In this special conversation organized exclusively for the 1754 Society, senior faculty members and students of Columbia’s Committee on Global Thought (CGT) from across the University and Medical Center discussed what it will mean to think, act, and teach globally over the next four decades. Thu Nov 12 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Partha Chatterjee Partha Chatterjee The Legacy of Bandung Tue Nov 10 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Michael Doyle Michael Doyle The Question of Intervention Tue Oct 27 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Pratap Bhanu Mehta Pratap Bhanu Mehta The Identity of Modern Indian Political Thought Tue Oct 20 Politics of Memory in Global Context – Facing History Squarely & Nations and their Pasts Carol Gluck, Narita Ryuichi, Charles K. Armstrong, Bu Ping, Li Zonguan, Jie-hyun Lim, Valerie Rosoux, Iwasaki Minoru, Umemori Naoyuki, Hou Chunyan, Armelle Viard, Daniel Dayan Panelists discussed the politics of memory of World War II in this seventieth anniversary year in domestic and geopolitical perspectives. Each panelist made a 7-minute introductory statement, which was then followed by a discussion among the panelists, moderated by Gluck, and finished with some questions from the audience. Thu Oct 15 Undergraduate: It’s a Hip-Hop World Jonzi D, Antoinette Gomis, Niek Traa, Jennifer Archibald, Ellie Hisama We’ve all seen hip-hop dance…but nothing like this! UCGT hosted “It’s A Hip-Hop World”, an event organized in conjunction with the Apollo Theater’s Breakin Convention International Hip-Hop Festival. Our renowned international panel will hold a discussion on the topic of the intersection of hip hop between different global environments, followed by a Q&A and a meet and greet. Wed Oct 14 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Csaba Békés Csaba Békés Political Transition in East-Central Europe and the End of the Cold War, 1988-1991 Tue Oct 13 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Abram de Swaan Abram de Swaan Women’s Emancipation and the Rise of Fundamentalism Tue Oct 06 World Leaders Forum with President Michelle Bachelet Her Excellency Michelle Bachelet, Nara Milanich This World Leaders Forum program featured an address by Her Excellency Michelle Bachelet, President of the Republic of Chile, titled, Challenges of Our Democracy: 25 Years After, followed by a question and answer session with the audience. Sat Sep 26 2015 Global Thought Lecture with Kevin Rudd Hon. Kevin Rudd, Vishakha N. Desai, Steven Cohen This World Leaders Forum and Global Thought Lecture featured an address by The Honorable Kevin Rudd, President of the Asia Society Policy Institute; Former Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Australia, titled The Rise of China and its Impact on the Global Order. The discussion was followed by a question and answer session with the audience. Thu Sep 17 CGT Lunchtime Seminar with Akeel Bilgrami Akeel Bilgrami The Enlightenment, Enchantment, and the Mentality of Democracy Tue Sep 15 Evidence-Based Medicine: How Sound is the Evidence? David Madigan, John Ioannidis, Wafaa El-Sadr, Steve Lohr “Rethinking Knowledge: Evidence-Based Medicine” addressed how randomized clinical trials provide the highest quality of evidence with regard to the efficacy and safety of medical interventions such as drugs and surgical procedures. Thu Apr 23 Politics of Memory in Global Context – Time and Trauma: Memory in Global Perspective Akram Zaatari, Rana Zincir, Rashid Khalidi, Hülya Adak, Minoru Iwasaki, Carol Gluck TIME AND TRAUMA: Memory in Global Perspective Sat Apr 18 Politics of Memory in Global Context – Time and Trauma: Memory in Global Perspective Selçuk Esenbel, Jie-hyun Lim, Osman Köker, Rashid Khalidi, Carol Gluck, Minoru Iwasaki, Edhem Eldem Time and Trauma: Memory in Global Perspective Fri Apr 17 Politics of Memory in Global Context – Time and Trauma: Transgenerational Memories of Mass Suffering Rashid Khalidi, Leyla Neyzi, Murat Paker, Minoru Iwasaki TIME AND TRAUMA: Transgenerational Memories of Mass Suffering Thu Apr 16 Creating Economic Growth: Lessons for Europe Marco Magnani, Bruce Greenwald, Dominick Salvatore, Vishakha N. Desai A panel discussion with Marco Magnani on his book “Creating Economic Growth: Lessons for Europe” with Bruce Greenwald, Dominick Salvatore, and moderated by Vishakha N. Desai. Tue Apr 14 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor Saskia Sassen Saskia Sassen The Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought presents Urgent Issues on Global Urbanism with Saskia Sassen Thu Apr 02 Politics of Memory in Global Context – The Politics of Memory in East Asia and Eastern Europe Today Yoshiaki Yoshimi, Daqing Yang, Jan Kubik The Politics of Memory in East Asia and Eastern Europe Today Fri Feb 27 Politics of Memory in Global Context – Remembering Across Time: Psychological Studies of the Two World Wars in Transgenerational Memory William Hirst, Olivier Klein, Sarah Gensburger, Richard Rechtman, Carol Gluck Remembering Across Time: Psychological Studies of the Two World Wars in Transgenerational Memory Thu Jan 08 Undergraduate: Columbia Global Night How can Columbia University undergraduates become better equipped to understand and participate in the inter-connected, inter-dependent world of the 21st century? It is widely noted that in the next decade, one in every four jobs will be related to global trade and development. Do you feel you are prepared for this new world? What do you need from your undergraduate education to provide a more nuanced global perspective? Thu Nov 20 The 7th Kenneth J. Arrow Lecture: Prices and Decentralization without Convexity Paul Milgrom, Kenneth J. Arrow, Jay Sethuraman, Joseph Stiglitz The 7th Kenneth J. Arrow Lecture on “Prices and Decentralization without Convexity” was delivered by Paul Milgrom, Shirley and Leonard Ely professor of Humanities and Sciences in the Department of Economics at Stanford University, with Kenneth J. Arrow, Professor of Economics (Emeritus) at Stanford University; Jay Sethuraman, Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research at Columbia University; and Joseph Stiglitz, University Professor at Columbia University. Tue Nov 18 The Kenneth J. Arrow Series Book Launch Scott Barrett, Patrick Bolton, Bruce Greenwald, Geoffrey Heal, Eric Maskin, Bernard Salanié, José Scheinkman, Joseph Stiglitz The Kenneth J. Arrow Series Book Launch featured a policy-oriented authors’ roundtable. Mon Nov 17 Politics of Memory in Global Context – Critics and Analytics: Presentation of the Past in the 9/11 Museum Charles Strozier, Jeffrey Alexander, Daphna Shohamy, Thomas Lutz, Henry Rousso Panel discussion as part of The Politics of Memory in Global Context series on the relation between individual and collective memory, between national and global history, between commemoration and information, including the challenge of presenting such difficult pasts as September 11th and the Holocaust. Wed Nov 05 Politics of Memory in Global Context – Remembering the Past in Public: A Conversation William Hirst, Thomas Lutz, Henry Rousso, Steven Davis Panel discussion as part of The Politics of Memory in Global Context series on the relation between individual and collective memory, between national and global history, between commemoration and information, including the challenge of presenting such difficult pasts as September 11th and the Holocaust. Tue Nov 04 Global Governance Mark Mazower, Partha Chatterjee, Katharina Pistor A Global Think-in on the past, present, and future of attempts to “govern the world” Wed Oct 08 Politics of Memory in Global Context – The Past in Public: Museums and Memory Clifford Chanin, Stephane Grimaldi, Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett, Valerie Paley, Jacqueline Eidelman, Andreas Huyssen A panel discussion bringing together museum curators and scholars of the humanities to explore how we experience museums. Fri May 02 2014 Global Thought Lecture with Pascal Lamy Pascal Lamy, Vishakha Desai, Lee C. Bollinger, Richard G. Parker, Jose Antonio Ocampo The 2014 Global Thought Lecture featured an address by Pascal Lamy, former Director-General of the World Trade Organization and Chair of the Oxford Martin Commission for Future Generations, titled “Global Governance and Future Challenges: Lessons from the Oxford Martin Commission.” Tue Apr 29 Undergraduate: Meeting on Global Governance with Pascal Lamy Pascal Lamy Undergraduate: Meeting on Global Governance with Pascal Lamy Tue Apr 29 Undergraduate: Workshop on the Future of Global Governance with José Antonio Ocampo Jose Antonio Ocampo Workshop on the Future of Global Governance April 18, 2014 · 2:00-3:00PM Columbia University, Hamilton Hall, Room 603 José Antonio Ocampo, Professor of Professional Practice in the Faculty of International and Public Affairs and Member of the Committee on Global Thought José Antonio Ocampo, moderator for the Global Thought Lecture on Global Governance and Future Challenges, will lead […] Fri Apr 18 Global Urbanism – Mobilities in Cities: From Visible to Invisible Diana Barco, Assaf Biderman, Adam Greenfield, Walter Hook, Hiroo Ichikawa, Greg Lindsay, Eric Miller, Xuefei Ren, Claire Roberge, Saskia Sassen, Richard Sennett , Doris Tarchopulos, John Urry The fifth annual conference on global urbanism, hosted by Saskia Sassen. Fri Apr 11 Book Talk with Deepak Nayyar Deepak Nayyar, Akbar Noman Catch Up: Developing Countries in the World Economy Wed Mar 05 Undergraduate: Lunch with Brian Greene Brian Greene A discussion on science and globalization. Lunch provided! Tue Mar 04 Book Launch: Stefan Jonsson Andreas Huyssen, Stefan Jonsson Stefan Jonsson and Andreas Huyssen will discuss Jonsson’s recent volume, Crowds and Democracy: The Idea and Image of the Masses from Revolution to Fascism, (Columbia University Press, 2013), published in the series Columbia Themes in Philosophy, Social Criticism, and the Arts. Thu Feb 27 Film Screening: Thaumazein Aleksander Motturi, Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak This screening of the film Thaumazein was followed by a discussion with director Aleksander Motturi. Thu Feb 27 The Idea of Development: What Causes Global Inequality? Branko Milanovic, Prabhat Patnaik, Akeel Bilgrami The Discipline Series: What are the sources of current forms of inequality in a world of globalized finance? Mon Feb 24 Politics of Memory in Global Context – History on Display: How Viewers Respond Denis Peschanski, Yves Burnod, Adam Brown, Marianne Hirsch What happens in our brains when we think about collective memory? Fri Feb 14 Arts, Culture and Quality of Life in Global Cities Vishakha N. Desai, Nora Akawi, Bill Bragin, Carol Becker, Geoffrey Crossick, Teddy Cruz, Marcus Faustini, Tom Finkelpearl, Fonna Forman, Susan K. Freedman, Christophe Girard, Kathy Halbreich, Joe Hall, Stephen Hobbs, Paul Ramirez Jonas, Vasif Kortun, Dinh Q. Lê, Kate D. Levin, Helen Marriage, Reinhold Martin, Joy Mboya, Maria Nicanor, Mark J. Stern, Sergio Sá Leitão, Saskia Sassen, Rajeev Thakker, Roberta Uno, Damian Woetzel A conference on how to build and sustain robust cultural infrastructure. Mon Dec 09 Politics of Memory in Global Context – Japan and 3/11: Memory in Formation Harry Harootunian, Theodore C. Bestor, Mona El-Ghobashy, William Hirst What impact did the disasters of 3/11–the earthquake, tsunami and Fukushima nuclear disaster–have on Japanese memory? Fri Dec 06 Long-term Investing in a Changing World The fourth annual conference on theoretical and practical approaches to the question of long-term investing. Thu Dec 05 Growth and Poverty Amartya Sen, Edmund Phelps, Jeffrey Sachs A conversation on the parallel phenomena of India’s booming economy and widespread poverty. Tue Dec 03 The Syria Dilemma: A Critical Dialogue Nader Hashemi, Bassel Korkor, Kenneth Roth, Saskia Sassen, Michael Walzer The nightmare in Syria remains unresolved – and with no end in sight. Mon Dec 02 Your Global Thoughts, with President Lee C. Bollinger Lee C. Bollinger The Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought convened this open-format discussion with University President, Lee C. Bollinger. Thu Nov 21 Public Forum on Educating to Build a Cooperative Global Community W. Warner Burke, Joshua D. Fisher, William Gaudelli, David Hansen, Victoria J. Marsick, Morton Deutsch A forum on education and the environment Wed Nov 20 Politics of Memory in Global Context – Conversations on Memory: Literature, Neuroscience, History Partha Chatterjee, Joseph LeDoux, Orhan Pamuk, Carol Gluck This interdisciplinary conversation brings together voices from literature, psychology and cultural and political theory to explore the ways we understand the past. Tue Nov 19 Gandhi and (Marx) Akeel Bilgrami A lecture celebrating Akeel Bilgrami as the first Sidney Morgenbesser Professor of Philosophy Tue Nov 12 Hobsbawm’s 20th Century: A Memorial Event Colleagues, admirers, and members of the Hobsbawm family celebrated the life and work of world-renowned historian Eric Hobsbawm (1917–2012). Fri Oct 25 The Quest for Security: Protection Without Protectionism and the Challenge of Global Governance Michael Doyle, Joseph Stiglitz, Jan Svejnar Book launch event for “The Quest for Security: Protection Without Protectionism and the Challenge of Global Governance”, edited by Joseph E. Stiglitz and Mary Kaldor. Thu Oct 24 Politics of Memory in Global Context – Testimony and 9/11: Memory Change over Time William Hirst, Elizabeth Phelps, Clifford Chanin, Brad Evans How does a traumatic, public event affect the accuracy of our memories? Thu Oct 24 Big Data/Global Surveillance Emily Bell, Mark H. Hansen, Rebecca MacKinnon, Moderator: Saskia Sassen A panel on the technical and global implications of the expanded surveillance capacity of states and the expanded capacity of people to contest. Tue Oct 08 Film Screening and Discussion: Ten Years of Terror Brad Evans Director Brad Evans in a film screening of Ten Years of Terror, which explores the impact of 9/11. Mon Sep 23 The Struggle for Control of the Internet Misha Glenny Glenny considered the connections between criminality, commercial espionage and the National Security State. Fri Sep 20 Breakfast with Homi K. Bhabha on Culture and Security Homi K. Bhabha Homi Bhabha met with the Undergraduate Committee the morning after his Global Thought Lecture to delve more deeply into globalization and post-colonial identity. Tue Apr 30 2013 Global Thought Lecture with Homi K. Bhabha Homi K. Bhabha, Saskia Sassen In the First Global Thought Lecture, Bhabha used the works of W.E.B. Du Bois, Toni Morrison, Kathleen Battle, artist Zarina Hashmi, and dozens of other thinkers to explore the role of culture and the arts in cultivating an aesthetic of “living side by side” that contributes to our contemporary understanding of “cosmopolitan right”. Mon Apr 29 Pricing the Planet’s Future: The Economics of Discounting in an Uncertain World Christian Gollier, Bernard Salanié, Kenneth Arrow, Joseph E. Stiglitz The Sixth Annual Arrow Lecture Thu Apr 25 The Rise of the South Current Trends >> Future Possibilities A conference to discuss the 2013 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Human Development Report Mon Apr 08 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor Sudhir Venkatesh Sudhir Venkatesh The Undergraduate Committee participated in a discussion on sociological fieldwork in urban areas and globalization. Thu Mar 28 Our Global Local University Reinhold Martin A meeting with the Undergraduate Committee on Global Thought on the tensions between Columbia’s burgeoning role as a “global university” and its expanding place in New York. Fri Mar 01 Sustainable Investment – Long-term Investing: An Optimal Strategy in Short-term Oriented Markets The Third Annual Sovereign Wealth Funds Conference examined two critical issues: whether long-term investing is optimal; and if so, are particular mechanisms required to facilitate such investments? Mon Dec 03 Triangulating Property Rights Hanoch Dagan, Klaus Deininger, Sudhir Krishnaswamy, Terra Lawson-Remer, Paige West, Olivier de Schutter, Katharina Pistor The panel sought to advance alternative governance solutions for essential resources drawing on theory, legal and empirical research. Wed Nov 28 Churchill’s Secret War Anya Schiffrin, Madhusree Mukerjee, Partha Chatterjee Churchill’s Secret War: The British Empire and the Ravaging of India During World War II November 27, 2012 · 6:00-8:00PM Columbia University Business School, Uris Hall, room 141 In 1943, during World War II, the eastern province of Bengal in British India underwent a famine that killed 3 million people or more. The famine has long […] Tue Nov 27 A Symposium on Globalization and Sovereignty by Jean L. Cohen Panelists discussed “Globalization and Sovereignty: Rethinking Legality, Legitimacy, and Constitutionalism” by Jean L. Cohen bringing perspectives from law, history and political science. Fri Oct 26 Undergraduate: Talk with Professor Michael Doyle Michael Doyle Join Michael Doyle, a prominent SIPA and law professor, for a conversation on the myriad of ways in which issues of foreign policy inform and influence U.S. presidential elections. The Talks with Professors series allows students to engage in casual and meaningful conversations with distinguished scholars in a laid-back, informal setting. Registration open to Columbia University students only. Thu Oct 25 Global Urbanism – Presence and Absence in the City Michael Kimmelman, Ricky Burdett, Stephen Duncombe, Richard Sennett, Geoff Mulgan, Paul Gillieron, Greg Lindsay, Susanne Seitinger, Edwin Heathcote, Teddy Cruz, Sandi Hilal, Alessandro Petti, Saskia Sassen, Mamadou Diouf, Clémentine Deliss, Ioanna Theocharopoulou, Sudhir Venkatesh, Shamus Khan, Daniel Arsham, Jonah Bokaer, Elizabeth Diller, Andrew Todd A conference on how those considered invisible or inconsequential are enabled to ‘make presence’ in urban space. Fri Oct 12 The Presidential Economic Advisers Forum R. Glenn Hubbard, Jeffrey Liebman, Sharyn O'Halloran, Joseph E. Stiglitz, Michael Woodford, Introduction: Lee C. Bollinger, Moderator: Chrystia Freeland In an interconnected world, domestic events reverberate globally. Never is that more true than during election season in the United States. Mon Oct 08 Oil Talk: Thinking and Retelling the Political and Cultural Economy of Oil and Gas Hannah Appel, Michael Ross, Suzana Sawyer Oil Talk: Thinking and Retelling the Political and Cultural Economy of Oil and Gas April 13, 2012 · 10:00AM – 2:00PM Columbia University Business School, 142 Uris Hall Hannah Appel, Post-doctoral Research Scholar with the Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University Keynote lecture with Michael Ross (UCLA), Suzana Sawyer (UC Davis), and Michael Watts (UC Berkeley) […] Fri Apr 13 Moral Hazards in Health Insurance: Developments Since Arrow (1963) Amy Finkelstein, Jonathan Gruber, Kenneth J. Arrow, Joseph E. Stiglitz Fifth Annual Arrow Lecture Tue Apr 10 Sustainable Consumption: A Multi-Disciplinary Perspective Partha Dasgupta Sustainable Consumption: A Multi-Disciplinary Perspective April 2, 2012 · 10:00-11:30AM Columbia University, 1501 School of International and Public Affairs Partha Dasgupta, Professor of Economics at the University of Cambridge Visiting scholar and Professor Emeritus of Economics (Cambridge University), Sir Partha Dasgupta, will lecture on “Sustainable Consumption”. Joining as discussants will be Joseph E. Stiglitz, University Professor […] Mon Apr 02 Development and Empire: A Panel Discussion Fred Cooper, David Engerman, Julian Go, Odd Arne Westad, Mark Mazower A conversation on the relationship between empires and economic development Wed Mar 21 Debt: the Long View Peter Goodman, David Graeber, Louis Hyman, Greta Krippner What is debt? How did we get so much and what can we do about it? Thu Mar 08 Your Global Thoughts, with the CGT The CGT presented an hour of open global discussion with Columbia’s undergraduates. Columbia’s leading scholars and members of the Committee on Global Thought heard the thoughts of Columbia’s undergraduates on the pressing issues facing the world today including everything from issues of globalization, to Occupy Wall Street and the Arab Spring. Mon Mar 05 Global Urbanism – Supercities and Mega-Migrations: China’s Urban Futures Saskia Sassen, Thomas Buettner, Sabine Henning, Yao Lu, Ming Yan, Vishaan Chakrabarti, Xuefei Ren, Parag Khanna, Shohei Shigematsu, Gracia Liu-Farrer, Ling Huang, Adam Greenfield, Craig Hartman, Ioanna Theocharopoulou, Jiang Xu, Xiangming Chen, Chang Liu, Ackbar Abbas, Douglas Wyatt Hocking The third annual conference on the changing landscape of urban spaces, curated by Professor Saskia Sassen. Fri Nov 11 Sustainable Investment – From “Savings Glut” to Sustainable Growth The Second Annual Sovereign Wealth Fund Conference “From ‘Savings Glut’ to Sustainable Growth” brought together investors from sovereign wealth, pension and other long-term funds with policymakers, academics and leading economic thinkers for an intensive two-day program of plenary sessions, smaller working groups and keynote addresses. Mon Oct 17 Uprisings and Transitions: Today’s Politics and Economics in the Middle East and North Africa This conference examined the major path-breaking transitions in North Africa and the Middle East, as a continuation of three panels presented in Spring 2011, when the uprisings first broke out. Fri Oct 07 Time and Persons in the Economics of Climate Change Partha Dasgupta, Kenneth Arrow, Scott Barrett, Geoffrey Heal, Joseph E. Stiglitz The Fourth Annual Arrow Lecture Wed Apr 13 India During and After the Global Financial Crisis Kaushik Basu, Prabhat Patnaik, Amartya Sen, Joseph E. Stiglitz India During and After the Global Financial Crisis March 30, 2011 · 7:00-9:00PM Columbia University Business School, 301 Uris Hall Kaushik Basu, Chief Economic Adviser, Ministry of Finance, Government of India Prabhat Patnaik, Professor of Economics, Department of Economics, Jawaharlal Nehru University Amartya Sen, Thomas W. Lamont University Professor and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, Department […] Wed Mar 30 What Does ‘Imperialism’ Mean in an Age of Global Finance? C.P. Chandrasekhar, Duncan Foley, Jayati Ghosh, David Harvey, Jomo Kwame Sundaram, Prabhat Patnaik, Sitaram Yechury A Symposium Over Two Evenings Tue Mar 29 Governing Independent Legal Systems Horatia Muir Watt Is Private International Law Still a Relevant Tool? Tue Mar 22 The Egyptian Transition in Context Mona El-Ghobashy, Timothy Frye, Mirjam Künkler, Alfred Stepan, Michael Doyle A discussion of democratcy in Egypt and other transitioning countries Wed Mar 09 Politics of Memory in Global Context – Impossible Narratives: Historicizing Mass Trauma Sinan Antoon, Florent Brayard, Adam D. Brown, Vincent Crapanzano, Thomas J.W. Hill, Peter Lagerquist, Selma Leydesdorff, Jens Meierhenrich, Denis Peschanski, Eelco H. Runia, Carol Gluck, Brigitte Sion, Salim Tamari A conference exploring individual and social memory of mass trauma Thu Feb 17 Egypt Arising Juan Cole, Mona El-Ghobashy, Jean-Pierre Filiu, Rashid Khalidi, Saskia Sassen An exploration of the current unrest in Egypt and the Middle East. Thu Feb 10 Politics and Economics in a Volatile World Grzegorz W. Kolodko, Patrick Bolton, Andrzej Rapaczynski Grzegorz W. Kolodko discusses the release of his new book, “Truth, Errors, and Lies: Politics and Economics in a Volatile World” Thu Feb 03 Sustainable Investment – A New Form of Capitalism? The First Annual Sovereign Wealth Fund Conference “Sovereign Wealth Funds and Other Long-Term Investors: A New Form of Capitalism?” convened 200 scholars, policymakers, fund managers and economic thinkers to explore how sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) and other long-term investors can leverage their unique long-term investment horizons to confront and profit from complex global challenges. Mon Oct 04 Global Urbanism – Africa, Cities and Eco-Crisis Conference Saskia Sassen, Arthur H. Westing, Ties Rijcken, Ties Rijcken, Shiv Someshwar, Richard Matthew, Rachel Armstrong, Greg Lindsay, P. Michael Pelken, Klaus Jacob, Irwin Redlener, Lindsey Hoshaw, Noah Toly, Dana R. Fisher, Amit Srivastava The second annual conference on the changing landscape of urban spaces, curated by Professor Saskia Sassen. Fri Oct 01 Social Choice and Individual Values Eric Maskin, Amartya Sen, Kenneth J. Arrow, Joseph E. Stiglitz Second Annual Arrow Lecture Sat Dec 12 Global Urbanism – Cities and the New Wars Saskia Sassen, Arjun Appadurai, Stephen Graham, Jessica Stern, Elazar Barkan, Les Roberts, Karen Jacobsen, Yasmine Ergas, Claire Cutler, Eyal Weizman, Peter Marcuse, Partha Chatterjee Cities and the New Wars September 25-26, 2009 • 1:00PM – 6:45PM Columbia University, Avery Hall, Wood Auditorium How do cities confront conflict? This conference approached this question from two perspective. First, it explored the multiple meanings of the new urban wars: asymmetric armed conflict, US Army training for the “urban enemy,” forms of economic violence […] Fri Sep 25 Past Events Rethinking the World Co-Sponsored Programs Upcoming Events Past Events Event Videos Global Think-in Global Thought Lectures CGT Lunchtime Seminars Book Talks Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.