CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Vishakha N. Desai Home About People Committee Members Vishakha N. Desai Chair of the Committee on Global Thought Senior Advisor for Global Affairs to the President Senior Research Scholar, School of International and Public Affairs Dr. Vishakha N. Desai is Senior Advisor for Global Affairs to the President of Columbia University and a Senior Research Scholar for the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University. From 2004 through 2012, Dr. Desai served as President and CEO of the Asia Society, a global organization dedicated to strengthening partnerships between Asia and the U.S. Under her leadership the society expanded the scope and scale of its activities with the opening of new offices in India and Korea, a new center of U.S.-China Relations, internationally recognized education programs, and inauguration of two new architecturally distinguished facilities in Hong Kong and Houston. In 2012, in recognition of Dr. Desai’s leadership in the museum field, President Barack Obama appointed her to serve on the National Museum and Library Services Board. An internationally renowned scholar of Asian art, she has published and lectured extensively on the intersection of traditional and contemporary arts and policy in diverse countries of Asia. Dr. Desai is a Trustee of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation; and serves on the Board of Directors for Teach for All; the corporate board of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (one of the largest corporations in India); and the Governing and Academic councils of KREA University a new private liberal arts university in India. She has also served as Senior Advisor for Global Programs to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, as a member of the International Advisory Committee for the Auroville Foundation, India, an Advisory Trustee of the Brookings Institution, a Trustee of the Bertelsmann Foundation, and Chair of the Board of Trustees of AFS Intercultural Programs. Dr. Desai holds a B.A. in Political Science from Bombay University and an M.A. and Ph.D. in Asian Art History from the University of Michigan, in addition to honorary degrees from Williams College, MA 2014; Centre College, KY, 2008; Pace University, NY, 2008; The College of Staten Island, NY, 2006; and Susquehanna University, PA, 1996. Website SIPA Faculty Profile: Vishakha N. Desai Asia Society Profile: Vishakha N. Desai Wikipedia Profile: Vishakha N. Desai Select Publications World as Family: A Journey of Multi-Rooted Belongings (Columbia University Press, 2021) Asian Art History in the 21st Century (editor, Clark Art Institute, 2007) Gods, Guardians and Lovers: Temple Sculptures from North India (editor, Antique Collectors’ Club, 1993) Life at Court: Art for India’s Rulers (Museum of Fine Arts Boston, 1985) Select Honors and Awards Board member, National Museum and Library Services Board, 2012-2015 Honoris Causa, Pace University, 2009 Education Ph.D., Asian Art History, University of Michigan M.A., Asian Art History, University of Michigan B.A., Political Science, Bombay University Back to Committee Members Vishakha N. Desai Vishakha N. Desai Carol Gluck Neil Krishan Aggarwal Manan Ahmed Carol Becker Akeel Bilgrami Partha Chatterjee John Coatsworth Souleymane Bachir Diagne Mamadou Diouf Michael Doyle Wafaa El-Sadr Yasmine Ergas Nikhar Gaikwad Qin Gao Mark Hansen Bernard E. Harcourt Turkuler Isiksel Brian Larkin Sharon Marcus Reinhold Martin Mark Mazower Michael Morris Rosalind C. Morris José Antonio Ocampo Benjamin Orlove David K. Park Richard G. Parker Katharina Pistor Saskia Sassen Joseph Slaughter Joseph E. Stiglitz Adam Tooze Andreas Wimmer Faculty Quote The Global is not universal or ideationally determined. It’s relational and contextual, and we need to create knowledge around this. Vishakha N. Desai Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.