CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Politics of Memory in Global Context Home Signature Research Politics of Memory in Global Context Politics of Memory in Global Context The Politics of Memory in Global Context is a Franco-American collaborative project that brings together scholars in the social sciences and humanities who work on collective or public memory; cognitive scientists, psychologists, and neuroscientists who work on individual memory; and curators of historical and memorial museums who present the past to the public. The main museum partners are the Mémorial de Caen, the national World War II museum in France, and the National September 11 Memorial Museum in New York. Led by Professor Carol Gluck at Columbia and Denis Peschanski in Paris, the project always combines these diverse disciplinary approaches and considers all topics comparatively in global context. The goal is to discern commonalities among them, develop new analytic perspectives on the formation and operation of public memory, and suggest policies for better political management of divisive memories within and between countries. The project held a public Global Think-in on “Facing History Squarely: The Politics of War Memory in East Asia and Elsewhere” and a scholarly workshop on “Nations and their Pasts” at the Columbia Global Center | East Asia, Beijing in October, 2015, with participants from seven countries, including social scientists, neuroscientists, museum curators. Similar events were held at the Global Centers in Paris, Istanbul, and Amman between January and April 2015. Biweekly workshops continued throughout the year in Paris on “Audio-Visual Media and the Relation between Individual and Collective Memory.” The project is supported by funds from the Committee on Global Thought, the National Center for Scientific Research (CNRS), MATRICE, Mémorial de Caen, ANR (French National Research Agency), heSam (Le Pôle de recherche d’enseignement supérieur, Hautes études – Sorbonne – Arts et Métiers), INA (L’Institute national de l’Audiovisuel), Alliance Program (Columbia University, École Polytechnique, Sciences Po, and Panthéon-Sorbonne University) and Institut Européen Emmanuel Levinas. Learn more about past events. Photo Gallery Nations and their Pasts (Oct. 16, 2015) Facing History Squarely: The Politics of War Memory in East Asia and Elsewhere (Oct. 15, 2015) Discussing memory in a global perspective (April 18, 2015) Remembering the Past in Public: A Conversation (November 4, 2014) Remembering the Past in Public: A Conversation (November 4, 2014) Remembering the Past in Public: A Conversation (November 4, 2014) Critics and Analytics: Presentation of the Past in the National 9/11 Memorial Museum (November 5, 2014) Critics and Analytics: Presentation of the Past in the National 9/11 Memorial Museum (November 5, 2014) Critics and Analytics: Presentation of the Past in the National 9/11 Memorial Museum (November 5, 2014) Back to Signature Research Politics of Memory in Global Context Youth in a Changing World Project History Youth Voices on the COVID-19 Pandemic Global Youth Summit Additional Resources A World Indebted Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Politics of Memory in Global Context Past Events Partners and Supporters Global Money Unsettlement Past Research Projects Arts, Culture, and Quality of Life in Global Cities From Local to Scale Global Science Sustainable Investment Urbanizing Technology: The Mobility Complex Politics of Memory in Global Context News Thu. Apr 16, 2015 Gluck - Centers in Istanbul and Amman to Host Global Think-Ins View recent news Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.