CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search M.A. in Global Thought Home Academics M.A. in Global Thought APPLY FOR FALL 2022 What is the M.A. in Global Thought? The Master of Arts in Global Thought takes an interdisciplinary approach to exploring critical global issues. This academic program challenges students to engage with new concepts and generate innovative questions as they examine the complexities of our interconnected and always evolving world. Students take courses taught by members of the Committee on Global Thought, an international roster of renowned scholars from across Columbia University. This is a challenging and customizable program, designed for global citizens who are ready to rethink conventional paradigms, tackle urgent questions, and take full advantage of New York City and Columbia University’s resources and professional opportunities. 1 year-long seminar – introduces students to CGT faculty and supports them in conceptualizing, researching, and writing their MA capstone essays 3 core courses – provide broad conceptual and transdisciplinary foundations in global governance, political economy, and cultural politics 5 electives – allow students to design their education to reflect their professional goals. 9 months – students complete their MA research and degree in one academic year 10 graduate schools – offer a wealth of course offerings and opportunities At the heart of the program, the capstone MA essay asks students to develop an original research question, hone their scholarly skills, and produce an analytical essay with publishing potential. See past essay titles in alumni class profiles. Understanding global thinking as a process rather than a product, the Committee on Global Thought supports students in their development of insights about the changing world, drawing upon local views of global processes that affect all of us, if not in the same way. Renowned Global Scholars Throughout the degree, students develop their ideas in conversation with some of the university’s most accomplished scholars from around the world, including CGT members and other Columbia faculty, including Saskia Sassen, Kian Tajbakhsh, David Park, Carol Gluck and Vishakha Desai. The core seminar introduces students to a variety of CGT members, from world famous scholars to new thinkers doing cutting-edge research. Global Columbia New York City, one of the world’s most vibrant and global cities, is a unique place from which to think about our shared future. Columbia University is a pioneer in creating a globally structured and oriented university for the 21st century. The Committee on Global Thought, established by Columbia President Lee C. Bollinger in 2006, brings together diverse scholars to seek new analytic categories and concepts to comprehend the changing and increasingly globalized world. Global Thought students enjoy access to Columbia’s resources in the academic and professional schools, expansive library collections, and a full calendar of campus events. They take advantage of their NYC location to connect with organizations, institutions, and opportunities across the city. On campus, their diverse cohort provides a dynamic learning community. 41 nationalities among alumni 33% of graduates work outside the US Professionalization and Careers An innovative academic offering, the M.A. in Global Thought prepares students for a wide range of future careers in development, nongovernmental organizations, government, public policy, academia, research, and the private sector. The combined focus on developing nuanced research and broadly ranging knowledge prepares students for employment, as well as for further study in professional schools or Ph.D. programs. During or after the program, students pursue internships and volunteer positions at UNICEF, UNDP, Bain Capital, The Inter-Agency Network for Education in Emergencies, International Chamber of Commerce, Wondersauce, and more. Global Thought alumni provide a robust and growing network of savvy mentors around the world. Private, Public, and Nonprofit Albright Stonebridge Group Andela British Diplomatic Services BVR Media Carrefour China Cerillion Technologies China Merchant Bank Church World Service Civil Aviation Authority, Singapore Cloudberry Creative CollegeVine ESCAL Communication Fragomen Girl Rising German Development Cooperation Google Grant Thornton LLP Graphika, Inc. Hangsterfer’s Laboratories Heritage Experiential Learning School HSBC J.S. Johnson investments Joongaifg Ilbo JRI America Kukje Academy APMG Nebular Nevada Assembly, Democratic Caucus NYSC One to World PiLnet Rabin Martin Reflections of War Initiative Rockefeller Foundation Save the Children UK Singapore Civil Service, Maritime & Port Authority Singapore Civil Service, Ministry of Home Affairs Singapore Civil Service, Ministry of Education Teach for America Teach for Qatar Singtel StartUp Health UberEATS UNDP UNICEF United Nations UN Migration Agency Waterbrook Consultants VISA Wondersauce Women’s Education Project Women’s Equality Center World Education Services Research and Further Study Brown University, Graduate School Columbia University, Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation Columbia University, Teacher’s College Fordham, School of Law Fulbright Program London School of Economics and Political Science Syracuse University, The Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Tsinghua University, School of Law Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona University of Cambridge University of Melbourne University of Minnesota University.of Pennsylvania, School of Sociology Back to Academics M.A. in Global Thought M.A. in Global Thought M.A. Admissions M.A. Curriculum Requirements M.A. Class of 2022 M.A. Tuition and Funding Opportunities M.A. FAQ B.A./M.A. Program M.A. Professional Opportunities and Career Support M.A. Alumni Profiles M.A. Current Student Portal Undergraduate Global Thought Bartsch Fellows Undergraduate Committee Courses in Global Thought Global Thought Experience Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.