CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Undergraduate Global Thought Home Academics Undergraduate Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought provides Columbia University students with opportunities to engage the cross-disciplinary and transnational approaches of the CGT both inside the classroom and beyond the university. Click the icons below to learn more: Back to Academics Undergraduate Global Thought M.A. in Global Thought M.A. Admissions M.A. Curriculum Requirements M.A. Class of 2022 M.A. Tuition and Funding Opportunities M.A. FAQ B.A./M.A. Program M.A. Professional Opportunities and Career Support M.A. Alumni Profiles M.A. Current Student Portal Undergraduate Global Thought Bartsch Fellows Undergraduate Committee Courses in Global Thought Global Thought Experience Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.