CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Contribute Home About Contribute How can we learn from the global voices outside the university? The Committee on Global Thought has embarked upon an effort to Extend the Range of Global Thought to globally-minded figures in the business, government, and non-profit world. The goal is both to benefit from their expertise and counsel and also to support the CGT in its present and future objectives. If you would like to help support the efforts of the CGT through a charitable gift, please visit givenow.columbia.edu or contact our Director Daniel Rivero. Advisory Council The CGT Advisory Council is a group of dynamic individuals interested in global issues, global education, and new global thinking. Members of the Advisory Council work with the faculty to plan for future directions, participate in CGT activities, provide financial support, and serve as mentors to our M.A. students. Dinners and meetings arranged especially for Council members provide opportunities for informal discussion with faculty, M.A. students, and invited speakers. Nominations of Advisory Council members are welcome and can be sent to our Director Daniel Rivero. The 1754 Society The 1754 Society honors and acknowledges alumni and friends of Columbia who have made plans for the University through trust, estate, or other planned gifts. Named for the year in which King’s College, the future Columbia University, was established, the Society recognizes the vital role planned gift donors have played over the centuries in Columbia’s emergence as a preeminent educational institution and the role they play today in ensuring its continued excellence. On Nov. 12, 2015, the Committee on Global Thought participated in a discussion with members of the 1754 Society titled “From 1754 to 2054: Columbia’s Global Future from the Perspective of the Committee on Global Thought.” This special conversation discussed how Columbia University is preparing students to live and thrive in an increasingly interdependent and interconnected world. Former CGT Chair Carol Gluck, current CGT Chair Vishakha N. Desai, and CGT Members Mamadou Diouf, Wafaa El-Sadr, and Adam Tooze, along with M.A. Global Thought student Wei Qing Tan and undergraduate student Jeffrey Niu, all ventured to answer what they thought this world look like in 2054, the year of Columbia’s tricentennial, and how they thought Columbia could meet the challenges of new teaching and research that cross conventional disciplines and geographies to address issues as disparate as health and human security, religious diversity, global capitalism, world order thinking, and humanistic values? Annual Report The Annual Report of the Committee on Global Thought highlights signature research projects, programming, academics, and activities that have occurred during the year at the CGT, as well as initiatives to extend the range of global thought at Columbia University and around the world. To view the Annual Reports for the Committee on Global Thought, visit cgt.columbia.edu/annual-reports. Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.