CU Global Thought The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 Menu Skip to content About About CGT History People Partnerships Annual Reports Contribute Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Academics M.A. in Global Thought Undergraduate Global Thought Research Youth in a Changing World Politics of Visual Arts in a Changing World Unsettlement Politics of Memory in Global Context Resources Past Research Projects Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Coronavirus News and Analysis Podcast Shorts on COVID-19 Perspectives on the Pandemic Media Podcast Photos Event Videos Newsletter Search Book Talks Home Events Book Talks Book Talks The Committee on Global Thought enjoys featuring emerging authors and their new works at Columbia University. These Book Talks are a popular forum for Columbia faculty, students, and members of the public to engage in critical discussion outside the classroom. Co-organized with Columbia Global Reports, who commission authors to do original on-site reporting around the globe, the aim is to combine the immediacy and narrative power of journalism with the intellectual ambition and acuity of scholarship. These free events are open to all members of the campus community as well as the general public. Panelists include the book author along with CGT faculty, as well as respected members of the literary community. Recent Book Talks #bringbackourgirls: A discourse on Islamist militancy in Africa Dec. 6, 2016 at Columbia Journalism School with Helon Habila, Brian Larkin, Shobana Shankar, and Nicholas Lemann. Watch the video. Til Debt Do Us Part: Lessons for a Deglobalizing World From the Last 25 Centuries of Financial Crisis Nov. 10, 2016 at Fayerweather Hall with Bob Swarup and Perry Mehrling. Read more about the event. Past Book Talks Global Citizenship: A discussion on The Cosmopolites with Atossa Araxia Abrahamian Nov. 17, 2015 at Columbia Journalism School with Atossa Araxia Abrahamian, Nicholas Lemann, Rosalind C. Morris, and Joseph O’Neill. Watch the video. Planes, Trains, and Root Canals: The new world of medical tourism with Outpatients author Sasha Issenberg Feb. 10, 2016 at Columbia Law School with Sasha Issenberg, Michael W. Doyle, and Nicholas Lemann. Watch the video. Creating Economic Growth: Lessons for Europe with author Marco Magnani Apr. 14, 2015 at WEAI International Affairs Building with Marco Magnani, Bruce Greenwald, Dominick Salvatore, and Vishakha N. Desai. Learn more about the event. The 7th Annual Kenneth J. Arrow Lecture - Prices and Decentralization Without Convexity with author Paul Milgrom Nov. 17, 2014 at Faculty House, Columbia University with Kenneth J. Arrow, Scott Barrett, Patrick Bolton, Bruce Greenwald, Geoffrey Heal, Eric Maskin, Paul Milgrom, Bernard Salanié, José Scheinkman, Jay Sethuraman, Joseph E. Stiglitz, and Jan Svejnar. Watch the video. The Quest for Security: Protection Without Protectionism and the Challenge of Global Governance with editor Joseph Stiglitz Oct. 24, 2013 at Earl Hall, Columbia University with Michael Doyle, Joseph Stiglitz, and Jan Svejnar. Learn more about the event. The 6th Annual Kenneth J. Arrow Lecture - Pricing the Planet's Future: The Economics of Discounting in an Uncertain World with author Christian Gollier Apr. 25, 2013 at International Affairs Building, Columbia University with Kenneth J. Arrow, Christian Gollier, Bernard Salanié, Joseph Stiglitz. Watch the video. Churchill's Secret War with author Madhusree Mukerjee Nov. 27, 2012 at Uris Hall, Columbia University with Madhusree Mukerjee, Partha Chatterjee, and Anya Schiffrin. Learn more about the event. The 5th Annual Kenneth J. Arrow Lecture - Moral Hazard in Health Insurance: Developments Since Arrow (1963) with author Amy Finkelstein Apr. 10, 2012 at Low Library, Columbia University with Kenneth J. Arrow, Amy Finkelstein, Jonathan Gruber, and Joseph Stiglitz. Watch the video. Honor Killings in the 21st Century with author Nicole Pope Jan. 31, 2012 at International Affairs Building, Columbia University with Nicole Pope. The 4th Annual Kenneth J. Arrow Lecture - Time and Persons in the Economics of Climate Change with author Partha Dasgupta Apr. 12, 2011 at Low Library, Columbia University with Partha Dasgupta, Kenneth J. Arrow, Geoffrey Heal, Scott Barrett, and Joseph Stiglitz. Watch the video. The 3rd Annual Kenneth J. Arrow Lecture - Speculation, Trading, and Bubbles with author José A. Scheinkman Nov. 29, 2010 at Low Library, Columbia University with Kenneth J. Arrow, José A. Scheinkman, Patrick Bolton, Sandy Grossman, and Joseph Stiglitz. Watch the video. Awakening Giants: Feet of Clay with author Pranab Bardhan Sep. 13, 2010 at the Heyman Center for the Humanities, Columbia University with Pranab Bardhan. The 2nd Annual Kenneth J. Arrow Lecture - Social Choice and Individual Values Dec. 11, 2009 at International Affairs Building, Columbia University with Kenneth J. Arrow, Amartya Sen, Thomas W. Lamont, Eric Maskin, and Joseph Stiglitz. Watch the video. The 1st Annual Kenneth J. Arrow Lecture - Helping Infant Economies Grow: Promoting Innovation and Learning in Developing Countries Nov. 12, 2008 at Casa Italiana, Columbia University with Kenneth J. Arrow, Bruce Greenwald, Joseph Stiglitz, Philippe Aghion, and President Lee Bollinger. Watch the video. Back to Events Book Talks Rethinking the World Co-Sponsored Programs Upcoming Events Past Events Event Videos Global Think-in Global Thought Lectures CGT Lunchtime Seminars Book Talks Search...: Links Back to Top About CGT Contact Us Newsletter Email * Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from CU Global Thought. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: The Committee on Global Thought, Columbia University, 91 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY, 10027, http://cgt.columbia.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Connect with CGT Columbia University The Committee on Global Thought. 91 Claremont, Suite 513, New York, NY 10027. (212) 851-7293 © 2022 Columbia University. Privacy Policy.