Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Office of the Chancellor myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About the Chancellor Accreditation Appearance Request Initiatives Leadership Team Messages Previous Chancellors Staff Weekly Video Updates Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Office of the Chancellor Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Office of the Chancellor Douglas A. Girod is the 18th chancellor of the University of Kansas. In this role, Chancellor Girod leads KU's mission to educate leaders, build healthy communities and make discoveries that change the world. Chancellor Douglas A. Girod Chancellor Girod has established a bold vision for the University of Kansas to be a destination for top scholars from across the world, an engine of economic growth for Kansas, and one of the nation’s leading research universities. Learn more about Chancellor Girod Chancellor's Messages An update on this week’s Kansas Board of Regents meeting Chancellor Girod and Provost Bichelmeyer share a summary of topics from this week's Kansas Board of Regents meeting. Masks no longer required in classrooms on Lawrence, Edwards campuses beginning March 28 The University of Kansas will no longer require masks in classrooms on the Lawrence and Edwards campuses, effective Monday, March 28. Congratulating a valued colleague on his new opportunity Jack Cline, our associate vice chancellor for federal relations, has accepted a new position as vice president for federal relations at Northeastern University in Boston. Jack will lead Northeastern University’s federal relations office on Capitol Hill. Jack’s last day with KU will be May 1. Join us for the second annual University Research Awards event on April 5 We're hosting the second annual University Research Awards from 7 to 9 p.m. Tuesday, April 5, at the Lied Center to celebrate many of our most research-productive faculty. View all messages Chancellor's Weekly Video Update Chancellor Girod is hosting weekly Zoom updates to discuss the latest happenings at KU. The discussions are pre-recorded and shared with campus each Wednesday. View Weekly Video Updates Invite the Chancellor to your event Chancellor Girod strives to attend as many campus events as possible. Appearance Request Form "The work we do at KU changes lives and improves the world in meaningful ways. I look forward to collaborating with students, faculty, staff and KU supporters everywhere to continue this work on behalf of the state and society we serve." Douglas A. Girod Chancellor 230 Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 kuchancellor@ku.edu 785-864-3131 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.