Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Office of Event Management & Protocol Search Chancellor's Dinner Breadcrumb Chancellor's Dinner The 2020 Alumni Awards of Distinction online celebration will be held on Saturday, October 17, 2020 at 3:00 p.m. If you would like to register for this year's virtual event please click here. For more information on this year's virtual event please visit the Alumni Awards of Distinction website here. Chancellor Kim A. Wilcox AND Diane Del Buono — THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE UC Riverside Foundation — AND THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE UCR Alumni Association cordially invite you to the Please join us in honoring the following friends and Highlanders: UCR Medallion Recipients Jack and Laura Dangermond — The UCR Medallion is presented in recognition of innovation, leadership, and philanthropy in education and geospatial technology, and for conservation and humanitarian contributions to the global community. Alumni Awards of Distinction Recipients: Distinguished Alumnus Award Helen Newman ’79 — Alumni Service Award Jerry Swain ’89 — Outstanding Young Alumnus Award Sabrina Cervantes ’09 — For thirty-three years, the UCR Alumni Association has honored graduates who personify the University’s tradition of excellence and service. Through their personal and professional achievements, these individuals bring distinction to UCR, contribute to the betterment of society, and enhance their communities. Find out more about our honorees by clicking here. Proceeds benefit scholarship and fellowship initiatives at UCR Saturday, October 19, 2019 5:30 p.m. (reception) 6:30 p.m. (dinner) UC Riverside Highlander Union Building 900 University Avenue Riverside, California Registration is now closed. If you have any questions, please contact us at specialevents@ucr.edu. Inquiries? Phone: (951) 827-5667 E-mail: ladonna.ardary@ucr.edu Sponsorship Opportunities There are several sponsorship opportunities. See which one is right for you. Event Parking Complimentary parking available in Lot 1. For highlights and videos from previous Chancellor’s Award recipients click here Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Office of Event Management & Protocol 1120 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-3144 email: specialevents@ucr.edu Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel