Skip to main content Office of the Chancellor Menu Close About the Office Biography Staff and Units Initiatives Chancellor’s Annual Report Chancellor’s Fall Address Strategic Plan Connect with Us Meet With the Chancellor Lunch With the Chancellor Belltower Celebrations Previous Belltower Celebrations Messages University Leadership Chancellor’s Cabinet About the Office About the Office Biography Staff and Units Initiatives Initiatives Chancellor’s Annual Report Chancellor’s Fall Address Strategic Plan Connect with Us Connect with Us Meet With the Chancellor Lunch With the Chancellor Belltower Celebrations Belltower Celebrations Previous Belltower Celebrations Messages Messages University Leadership University Leadership Chancellor’s Cabinet Meet With the Chancellor If you’d like to meet with Chancellor Woodson, please provide your contact information in the form below, with a brief description of what you would like to discuss. In order to meet as many currently enrolled students as he can, Chancellor Woodson holds these meetings in 15-minute blocks. All meetings will be held via Zoom. Once confirmed, you will receive a personalized meeting link. Selecting a preferred date is not a confirmation. Chancellor’s Office staff will contact you directly to confirm your 15-minute meeting time. Please note: These meetings are not intended for Chancellor Woodson to intervene in individual issues best handled by established campus procedures. Meetings are not guaranteed, and meeting times are subject to change at any time. Advance notice of any changes will be provided as soon as possible. Name:* Student ID#:* E-mail:* Phone Number:* Preferred Date:* Date preferenceMonday, April 12, 3:00-4:00pm Topic Submit Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.