University of Southern California Commitment to Change Menu Skip to content Skip to secondary content search News USC Culture Journey Upcoming Events Transformation OCR 2020 Findings and Resolution Agreement Human Resources Design for the Future Continuous Efforts to Enhance University Responses Department of Public Safety Community Advisory Board Addressing Sexual Assault Rossier Rankings Report Tyndall Issues California State Court Global Settlement Federal Class Action Settlement Background about the Tyndall Issues Admissions Reporting and Support Resources Return to Content Welcome The University’s singular focus must continue to be the students, patients, and community we serve. They are the center of our academic and medical mission, and we owe them our very best. Our shared commitment must be to ensure that all of our students step onto campus feeling energized, motivated, safe, and confident about their USC experience. Our dedicated faculty and staff work constantly and tirelessly towards this goal. A member of the faculty, addressing the very purpose of a University, remarked that “we are the light of the human mind.” Our light has dimmed recently. By working together, with passion and commitment, we will restore trust and heal our community. It is because of that Trojan passion and commitment that USC will light the human mind more luminously than ever before. Updates Working Group on IFC Culture, Prevention, and Accountability Update January 18, 2022 A key feature of our strategy is to develop a strong partnership with IFC chapter members and leadership, student government and other appropriate student groups, national fraternity leaders, prevention and safety experts, and other stakeholders to ensure IFC activities are positive and safe for all. I am pleased to report that this partnership is working well, and that IFC leaders have demonstrated a commitment and willingness to address the challenges within their organizations. (Read more) DPS Community Advisory Board – Implementation Update December 7, 2021 During the 2020-2021 academic year, our 19-member CAB spent 10 months conducting a thorough examination of USC’s public safety practices, including hiring, finances, accountability, and bias training. To ensure an inclusive community-wide process… (Read more) DPS Community Advisory Board Report July 28, 2021 Dear Trojan Community, Since announcing our Call to Action last June, the Trojan community has come together in a number of important efforts to advance belonging and equity on our campuses. Over the past year… (Read more) Joint Statement about the California State Court Global Settlement March 25, 2021 USC and the 710 women who filed civil cases in Los Angeles Superior Court involving George Tyndall have reached a global agreement that is fair and reasonable. The $852 million settlement will end this litigation in state court. The USC Board of Trustees has ratified the settlement. (Read more) Letter to the Trojan Community from President Carol L. Folt March 25, 2021 Dear USC Community, I am writing to let you know that the remaining litigation against USC, arising from the abuse of patients by former Student Health physician George Tyndall, has been resolved. I am deeply sorry for the pain experienced by the women who trusted him as a physician and appreciate the courage of all who came forward. (Read more) Letter to the Trojan Community from Board of Trustees Chair Rick Caruso March 25, 2021 Dear USC Community, On behalf of the Board of Trustees, I am writing to underscore the significance of today’s settlement agreement for the victims of George Tyndall and to assure you that critical steps have been taken to prevent such horrific acts from ever happening again at USC. (Read more) More › Carolyn C. Meltzer named dean of Keck School of Medicine of USC The radiology expert has held top leadership positions at the Emory University School of Medicine and led a successful career in medical research and education. USC alumna joins expanding Office for Equity, Equal Opportunity and Title IX Title IX expert Linda Hoos brings a wealth of experience to a transformed office that seeks to prevent and address reports of discrimination, harassment and retaliation involving all Trojans. Community input helps shape advisory board recommendations to enhance public safety at USC The report from the Department of Public Safety Community Advisory Board recommends steps aimed at strengthening trust between the university, DPS and the broader community and making security more equitable. Steven Shapiro named first USC senior vice president for health affairs The physician-scientist will bridge clinical and research efforts, a collaborative approach designed to improve care. USC announces first chief inclusion and diversity officer As part of President Carol L. Folt’s senior leadership team, Christopher Manning will reinforce the university’s commitment to inclusion, diversity, equity and belonging. CHANGE PROGRESS DASHBOARD View the Progress Dashboard Related Websites Board of Trustees Office of the President Office of the Provost Office of Human Resources, Equity & Compliance Office of Ethics, Culture and Compliance Office of Equity, Equal Opportunity, and Title IX Office of Professionalism and Ethics SEND YOUR COMMENTS: botchair@usc.edu Feedback Site by USC ITS Web Services Content by USC Communications Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination