Skip to main content Office of the Chancellor Menu Close About the Office Biography Staff and Units Initiatives Chancellor’s Annual Report Chancellor’s Fall Address Strategic Plan Connect with Us Meet With the Chancellor Lunch With the Chancellor Belltower Celebrations Previous Belltower Celebrations Messages University Leadership Chancellor’s Cabinet About the Office About the Office Biography Staff and Units Initiatives Initiatives Chancellor’s Annual Report Chancellor’s Fall Address Strategic Plan Connect with Us Connect with Us Meet With the Chancellor Lunch With the Chancellor Belltower Celebrations Belltower Celebrations Previous Belltower Celebrations Messages Messages University Leadership University Leadership Chancellor’s Cabinet Chancellor Fourteen chancellors have led NC State since its founding in 1887. Under the leadership of Dr. Randy Woodson, North Carolina’s largest university has bolstered its reputation as a preeminent research enterprise. Meet the Chancellor About the Office News from NC State A Shot in the Arm NC State’s COVID-19 vaccine clinic is helping safeguard the Wolfpack community. Read more NC State Day of Giving Is a Record-Breaking Success $58,103, 657 – The NC State community set a national record for dollars raised during university giving days. Read more Data Science Academy Launches The launch of a universitywide academy reinforces NC State’s national strength in data science. Read more Red Chair Chats With Chancellor Woodson Singer-songwriter BJ Barham, NC State alumnus and frontman of American Aquarium, joins Chancellor Woodson at The Point for the third episode of Red Chair Chats. Tune in as they discuss Wolfpack football, classic guitars and what’s next for the band. Watch now Upcoming Events All Events May 29 Sunday Participants Needed for Black Health Lab Research Studies May 29 Sunday10:00 AM University Theatre Presents TheatreFEST 2022 May 30 Monday Memorial day (University Closed; No classes) Play Video Chancellor’s Messages Archived Messages Let’s finish strong, Wolfpack NC State community: Please take a moment to view this special message as we approach the end of the spring 2022 semester. In this video, I highlight some of the resources available on campus to help support you during this busy time of year. More information about those resources can be found at the links below: Drop-in… Board of Trustees approves update to Alma Mater Hello Wolfpack community, Today, the NC State Board of Trustees approved removing the word “Dixie” from the NC State Alma Mater and adding the word “Southern.” With this change, the first line of the song will now begin: “Where the Southern winds so softly blow,” making a clear geographical reference. This change is effective immediately. The lyrics… Honoring and Celebrating Black History Month NC State community, Throughout the month of February, the United States celebrates Black History Month. At NC State, we join in this important celebration now and throughout the year. There are many opportunities to learn more about and honor the rich heritage and tremendous contributions of Black, African and African American people, to our university, our state… We make sense of the world for the benefit of the public. Our rigorous programs prepare students to develop solutions that serve the greater good, and our research has life-changing impact. Run with the Pack Apply to NC State Ready to run with the Wolfpack? The regular-decision deadline is January 15. Get started Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.