Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Office of the Chancellor myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About the Chancellor Accreditation Appearance Request Initiatives Leadership Team Messages Previous Chancellors Staff Weekly Video Updates Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Office of the Chancellor Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Lawrence, Edwards campuses to begin phasing out indoor mask mandate today Thu, 03/03/22 SHARE: Share by Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Faculty, staff and students, The Douglas County Commission’s decision to let the county mask mandate expire as planned yesterday reflects the dramatic improvement in our region’s COVID situation. Case rates and hospitalizations continue to fall, and Douglas County is no longer considered an area of high transmission by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For these reasons, today the University of Kansas will begin phasing out our indoor mask mandate on the Lawrence and Edwards campuses. Effective at 5 p.m. today, our mask policy will reflect the following: Masks will continue to be required in classrooms. Masks are no longer required in non-classroom settings such as libraries, dining halls, research labs, hallways, athletics facilities, offices, meeting rooms and similar areas. The only non-classroom settings in which masks are still required are Watkins Health Center, childcare facilities and campus buses. We realize this will be an adjustment for some individuals, which is why we are taking a phased approach starting with non-classroom spaces. Looking ahead, I expect we will remove the classroom mask requirement after Spring Break. I will communicate our decision to you in advance of the effective date. Although we are phasing out our mask mandate, individuals should continue to feel comfortable wearing masks wherever they see fit. I know I can count on each of you to respect your fellow Jayhawks’ preferences regarding masks. Vaccines and testing available on campus Remember, vaccines and testing are a key reason our university is able to move away from masks. If you have not been vaccinated or boosted, we encourage you to do so. Vaccines and testing are available at no charge at pharmacies and health clinics across the region and on campus at Watkins Health Center. Thank you The pandemic has taught us we should expect the unexpected, and if conditions take a turn in the wrong direction, we will adjust as we have in the past. With that said, given the continued decline in COVID case rates and hospitalizations in our region, now is the appropriate time to begin phasing out our mask mandate. Thank you for continuing to prioritize health and safety on our campus. Respectfully, Doug 230 Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 kuchancellor@ku.edu 785-864-3131 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.