Syracuse University | Chancellor Skip to Content Toggle navigation People Search Search SU Search Show All Results Close search results About Chancellor Kent Syverud Professor of Practice Dr. Ruth Chen Orange Friends Blog 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 Subscribe University Leadership Board of Trustees Chancellor’s Executive Team Chancellor’s Council University Leadership Team Previous Chancellors Awards 2021-22 Award Recipients One University Awards Ceremony, April 22, 2022 2020-21 Award Recipients One University Awards Welcome One University Awards Ceremony 2019-20 Award Recipients Archives News Public Remarks Videos Photos Selected Media Coverage Selected Publications Inauguration University Contacts Meeting and Event Request Form Home University Leadership Chancellor’s Council Ryan Williams Ryan Williams Chancellor’s Council Gene Anderson Cerri Banks Steven Bennett Craig Boise Kelly Chandler-Olcott Guilherme Costa Rajiv Dewan Michael Frasciello Daniel French Andrew Gordon Allen Groves Marcelle Haddix Mike Haynie Candace Campbell Jackson Chris Johnson Cydney Johnson Gwenn Judge Kris Klinger Brian Konkol Mark Lodato Diane Lyden Murphy Ramesh Raina Gretchen Ritter Dara Royer Karin Ruhlandt Peter Sala David Seaman J. Cole Smith Michael Speaks Jeff Stoecker Matthew Ter Molen Michael Tick Peter Vanable David Van Slyke John Wildhack Ryan Williams Jamie WindersIn This Section Ryan Williams September 21, 2021 • by Maria Damiano Vice President for Enrollment Services Ryan Williams was named Vice President for Enrollment Services on July 1, 2018. In this role, he oversees the Office of Admissions, the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs, the Enrollment Processing Center, the Office of Institutional Research and the Student Employment Office. Prior to being named Vice President, Williams held several positions at the University beginning in March of 2012, including Senior Associate Vice President, Interim Senior Associate Vice President and Associate Vice President. Before coming to Syracuse, Williams had most recently served as Vice President for Enrollment Programs and Services at the College Board in Reston, VA. For a period, he was also the Acting Senior Vice President, reporting directly to the Chief Operating Officer. Before joining the College Board in 2007, he was the Director of University Financial Services at Harvard University, in Cambridge, MA. While at the College Board, Williams was responsible for strategic leadership and overall management of the Enrollment Division, consisting of the Recruitment and Admission System and the Financial Aid System, which helps colleges and universities identify, recruit, admit, aid, and retain students. This included the Student Search Service, PowerFAIDS and the CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE. At Harvard, Williams served as the university’s chief student financial services officer, and managed eight finance and business operations offices that included Accounts Receivable, Cash Receipts, ID Services, Student Loans, Student Receivables, University Financial Aid Liaison, Mortgage and Educational Loans, and University Financial Services Customer Service Team. Williams was also chosen to lead the inaugural diversity and inclusion workgroup by the Chief Financial Officer. Previous to that, Williams was the Director of Financial Aid at Boston University and the University of Rochester, respectively. Williams earned a bachelor’s degree from Earlham College in Richmond, IN and an M.S. in education from the University of Rochester. © 2022 – Syracuse University. All Rights Reserved. • Accessibility | Privacy | Status | syr.edu