Skip to main content Office of the Chancellor Menu Close About the Office Biography Staff and Units Initiatives Chancellor’s Annual Report Chancellor’s Fall Address Strategic Plan Connect with Us Meet With the Chancellor Lunch With the Chancellor Belltower Celebrations Previous Belltower Celebrations Messages University Leadership Chancellor’s Cabinet About the Office About the Office Biography Staff and Units Initiatives Initiatives Chancellor’s Annual Report Chancellor’s Fall Address Strategic Plan Connect with Us Connect with Us Meet With the Chancellor Lunch With the Chancellor Belltower Celebrations Belltower Celebrations Previous Belltower Celebrations Messages Messages University Leadership University Leadership Chancellor’s Cabinet Chancellor’s Messages May 3, 2022 Thank you for a successful spring, Wolfpack NC State community: Please take a moment to view this special message of thanks as we close out the spring 2022 semester. I hope you have a successful and enjoyable summer. Randy WoodsonChancellor Apr 14, 2022 Let’s finish strong, Wolfpack NC State community: Please take a moment to view this special message as we approach the end of the spring 2022 semester. In this video, I highlight some of the resources available on campus to help support you during this busy time of year. More information about those resources can be found at the links below: Drop-in… Feb 18, 2022 Board of Trustees approves update to Alma Mater Hello Wolfpack community, Today, the NC State Board of Trustees approved removing the word “Dixie” from the NC State Alma Mater and adding the word “Southern.” With this change, the first line of the song will now begin: “Where the Southern winds so softly blow,” making a clear geographical reference. This change is effective immediately. The lyrics… Feb 3, 2022 Honoring and Celebrating Black History Month NC State community, Throughout the month of February, the United States celebrates Black History Month. At NC State, we join in this important celebration now and throughout the year. There are many opportunities to learn more about and honor the rich heritage and tremendous contributions of Black, African and African American people, to our university, our state… Jan 27, 2022 Launching the Menstrual Equity Initiative Dear Wolfpack community, Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, many in our Pack have had to manage economic and personal hardships related to COVID-19 as well as other life issues. Too often, these issues have included housing and food insecurities, and even lack of access to personal health products. Our Student Emergency Fund, Feed the Pack food pantry, Counseling Center and Student… Dec 20, 2021 NCAA/IARP Release Final Basketball Investigation Decision Dear NC State community, Earlier today NC State received a final decision regarding the NCAA’s investigation into alleged violations in our men’s basketball program in the 2015-16 and 2016-17 seasons. All allegations were tied to coaches who have not worked at NC State since before this case began. Throughout this review, NC State promised accountability where appropriate and vigorous… Dec 10, 2021 Wrapping up the Fall Semester Dear NC State Community, As the year comes to a close, I took a moment to record this video message to wish you a safe and joyous holiday season and thank you for all of your hard worth this semester. I look forward to seeing all of you in 2022. Randy Woodson,Chancellor Nov 21, 2021 NC State Receives Tremendous Support From State Budget Dear NC State community, True to the proud heritage of our land-grant mission, NC State University is an academic, research and service powerhouse educating the leaders of tomorrow, delivering life-changing discoveries across our state, and driving economic prosperity throughout North Carolina and far beyond. I admit I’m biased, but I don’t think there is any institution more… Nov 11, 2021 Response to Verdict in the Ahmaud Arbery Murder Trial Dear NC State Community, Over the last few weeks, people across the nation and in our NC State community have closely watched the trials of Kyle Rittenhouse and the men accused of killing Ahmaud Arbery. These trials, and especially the troubling events that created them, have stirred the grief, anger, fear and anxiety that many in our… Aug 8, 2021 Welcome to Fall 2021 NC State community: We are so excited to have you with us for the fall 2021 semester. I prepared this short video to officially welcome you back. I hope you’re all looking forward to the semester ahead as much as I am. Randy WoodsonChancellor Posts navigation 1 2 … 16 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.