Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Chaplain’s Office Home About Us People Religious Groups Programs Spaces Calendar Media Resources Welcome Welcome back to campus! Due to the COVID-19 pandemic our offices are currently open from 9am-5pm Monday to Friday. Our chaplains are meeting one on one with anyone who would like to talk. Appointments can be made on our Chat with a Chaplain Form, by reaching out to one of our chaplains directly through email found on our staff bios, or by calling our office at (203)432-1128. If you would like to post a remembrance of a loved one, please feel welcome to use our grieving wall through this link: Grieving Wall. If you’re looking for resources on grief you can find some on this link: Grief Resources. Our virtual chapel, created in collaboration with Saint Thomas More, is available for all to enjoy and engage with through this link: Virtual Chapel. This space is here for you to meditate, breathe, and simply be. There’s a guest book to sign and a music piece to listen to if you’d like. We will all get through this together! Welcome! This is a word that we in the Yale University Chaplain’s Office use and enthusiastically commit to putting into practice often. The very foundation of the work that we do at Yale is about creating an environment that feels welcoming to all people. Whether you are part of a particular religious/spiritual community or not, we welcome you! This website is designed to give you a deeper sense of the kind of work that we do at Yale as well as to promote religious literacy for the greater purpose of fostering understanding and appreciation of global religious and spiritual traditions. Whether you are visiting this site to find out more about how to connect with a particular individual, group or space, to learn about our events and programs or just to explore in general, we hope that you find what you need and that you even discover something new along the way that feeds your soul. We hope that you visit this site or our office often. You are always welcome! Celebrating 90 Years First Time On Our Site? Religious Holidays Tomorrow Ascension Day (C) Calendar: Religious Holidays Description: Celebrates the departure of Christ from Earth into the presence of God Sunday, May 29th Ascension of Bahá'u'lláh (Ba) Calendar: Religious Holidays Description: Anniversary of death of founder Sunday, June 5th Pentacost (C) Calendar: Religious Holidays Description: Celebrates the descent of the Holy Spirit on the disciples of Jesusafter his Ascension Shavuot* (Ju) Calendar: Religious Holidays Description: Festival commemorating giving of the Torah at Mt. Sinai (work restrictions) Subscriptions To receive weekly updates about our latest events, sign up for the Yale Chaplain’s Office eTelegram. For instructions on how to subscribe to our Religious Holidays Calendar, click here. Telegram Submissions To submit an event happening in the upcoming week to our weekly telegram, please fill out this Google Form. Email xan.minan@yale.edu with any questions. Religious Literacy Native American Traditions Contact Info Location: Old Campus, Bingham Hall, Entryway D, Lower Level Telephone: (203) 432-1128 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:30 am - 5pm Postal Mail: University Chaplain’s Office Yale University PO Box 209078 New Haven, CT 06520-9078 Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved You Are Always Welcome! Facebook Twitter Sina Weibo YouTube Tumblr