Skip to main content College of Humanities and Social Sciences Menu Close About Contact Us Meet the Dean Stats and Strengths Faculty and Staff Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Dean’s Board Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Add or Change Majors and Minors Departments What Can I Do With My Degree? Admissions Visit Student Resources Scholarships Career Services Internships, Study Abroad and More Campus Life Advising Research Centers Humanities Extension Program Research Office Faculty and Staff Resources Academic Resources Research Resources Communication Resources Update Your Profile Page Business Services (site) CHASS IT (site) Giving Ways to Give News Events Accolades Magazine COVID-19 Updates About About Contact Us Meet the Dean Stats and Strengths Faculty and Staff Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Dean’s Board Academics Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Add or Change Majors and Minors Departments What Can I Do With My Degree? Admissions Visit Student Resources Student Resources Scholarships Career Services Internships, Study Abroad and More Campus Life Advising Research Research Centers Humanities Extension Program Research Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Academic Resources Research Resources Communication Resources Update Your Profile Page Business Services (site) CHASS IT (site) Giving Giving Ways to Give News News Events Accolades Magazine COVID-19 Updates Walk Your Path With a degree in the humanities and social sciences, you'll bring unique perspectives and skills to our changing world. Explore our diverse programs — and find the right fit for you. Undergraduate degrees Graduate degrees News More stories Building Cultural Bridges, Making Global Connections MPA alumna Lorena Patterson connects people and cultures through her cultural proficiency training firm. Rising Starr Political science and communication double-major Starr Gibens is an expert at putting thought into action. The first-generation college graduate came to NC State with a list of what she wanted to accomplish, and she has done so much more. Researching, Sharing Histories of Marginalized People in the South Public history graduate student Sarah Waugh researches the histories of marginalized people in the South to present a comprehensive portrayal of the past. What Can I Do With My Degree? Our alumni range from attorneys to archaeologists, educators to entrepreneurs, social workers to social media specialists. They’re leaders who use their communication, problem-solving and listening skills for good. Explore career paths from our college. Career paths Join our community Undergraduate Admissions Start your application with the NC State admissions office. Graduate Admissions Start your application with the NC State Graduate School. Add or Change Majors and Minors Get help with adding a second major, a minor or changing your degree. How We Think And Do We study human thought and action in a high-tech context. Walk the bricks and find the path that’s right for you. Follow us on Instagram Cloudy with a chance of red and white. ☁️ Open She’s a docent, researcher, storyteller, … Open Meet Baiyina Muhammad, a 2022 graduate of … Open College of Humanities and Social Sciences Home 106 Caldwell Hall Campus Box 8101 Raleigh, NC 27695-8101 919.515.2468 Newsletter Signup Email Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Submit Humanities and Social Sciences Home Contact Us Faculty and Staff Directory Update Your Profile Page News Events Faculty and Staff Resources Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.