Coronavirus (COVID-19) information and resources. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Links Departments Art Art Art History Creative Writing Dance Music Theatre, Film and Digital Production Humanities Comparative Literature & Languages English Hispanic Studies History Media and Cultural Studies Philosophy Religious Studies Social Sciences Anthropology Economics Ethnic Studies Gender and Sexuality Studies Political Science Psychology Sociology Centers California Center for Native Nations Center for Bibliographical Studies and Research Center for Iberian and Latin American Music Center for Ideas and Society UCR ARTS Intranet Login CHASS Policies UC Riverside College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences At Home in the World Search Home About About CHASS Office of the Dean About the Dean Organizational Chart Dean's Office Staff Directory Faculty Directory CHASS Executive Committee Facilities Employment Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Programs Research Centers & Labs Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Scholarships and Fellowships Student Life Career Resources Faculty Meet CHASS Faculty Resources for Research Faculty Promotion and Advancement Staff Contract & Grant Administration News & Events Alumni Giving UCR Home Quick Links Departments Art Art Art History Creative Writing Dance Music Theatre, Film and Digital Production Humanities Comparative Literature & Languages English Hispanic Studies History Media and Cultural Studies Philosophy Religious Studies Social Sciences Anthropology Economics Ethnic Studies Gender and Sexuality Studies Political Science Psychology Sociology Centers California Center for Native Nations Center for Bibliographical Studies and Research Center for Iberian and Latin American Music Center for Ideas and Society UCR ARTS Intranet Login CHASS Policies CHASS State of the College Dean Daryle Williams provides a 5-point presentation about the college's research, successes, and challenges. Watch the Rebroadcast / Download the CHASS Report CHASS State of the College Dean Daryle Williams provides a 5-point presentation about the college's research, successes, and challenges. Watch the Rebroadcast / Download the CHASS Report CHASS State of the College Dean Daryle Williams provides a 5-point presentation about the college's research, successes, and challenges. Watch the Rebroadcast / Download the CHASS Report CHASS State of the College Dean Daryle Williams provides a 5-point presentation about the college's research, successes, and challenges. Watch the Rebroadcast / Download the CHASS Report CHASS State of the College Dean Daryle Williams provides a 5-point presentation about the college's research, successes, and challenges. Watch the Rebroadcast / Download the CHASS Report CHASS State of the College Dean Daryle Williams provides a 5-point presentation about the college's research, successes, and challenges. Watch the Rebroadcast / Download the CHASS Report Previous Next The College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences (CHASS) is the largest college at the University of California, Riverside (UCR). Our strength is our interdisciplinary power. More than 10,000 students select from 60+ majors and study alongside faculty who support their dreams. With access to groundbreaking research centers, art galleries, and performance spaces, CHASS students create work that inspires the world. View our brochure. Trending News May 26, 2022 A drunk driver killed her parents. Now she’s graduating to honor them Azalea Corral has a family photo that shows her three younger siblings and parents smiling together against a Santa Barbara countryside backdrop. It was taken on February 8, 2020 — the last time they would pose together for a photo. The following day, both her parents succumbed to bodily injuries after a drunk driver struck them while they were out on their usual evening stroll in Goleta, a community about 12 miles west of Santa Barbara. Corral’s siblings were in the house; she was on a train back to Riverside. Read More » May 25, 2022 Gun control legislation is popular; why won't it pass? The routine has been too familiar for too many years. A school shooting or mass shooting event occurs and stirs the American consciousness for a moment. But a week or two passes and talk of gun-control legislation fades. The issue goes into hibernation until the next mass shooting event. In 2018, an opinion article by UCR political science Professor Ben Bishin was published in The Washington Post. It was Bishin's attempt to explain why the cycle keeps repeating itself, and who's to blame. Read More » May 18, 2022 ‘Forbidden City’ shines light on Mao Zedong’s dancing girls Vanessa Hua’s latest novel "Forbidden City" explores the little-known history and influence of the teenage revolutionaries in Chairman Mao’s inner circle Read More » May 18, 2022 NEH grant helps research Pueblo, Colorado’s music history Xóchitl C. Chávez, assistant professor of music at UCR, is a co-principal investigator. Read More » MORE NEWS Upcoming Events MORE EVENTS We respectfully acknowledge our responsibility to the original and current caretakers of this land, water and air: The Cahuilla, Tongva, Luiseño, and Serrano peoples. Today, this location is home to many Indigenous peoples from all over the world. We are grateful to have the opportunity to live and work on these homelands. 60+ Majors 10k+ Students 300+ Faculty 3 Pulitzer Prize-Winning Alumni 2 U.S. Poets Laureate (Faculty & Alumni) 3 Art Galleries in Downtown Riverside (UCR ARTS) My favorite thing about being a CHASS student is understanding how beautifully all of its disciplines overlap. Oftentimes I would find myself sitting in a sociology lecture contemplating how matters of psychology or history were inextricably linked to my own discipline. Alondra Marquez Carter Sociology Before CHASS, I wasn’t able to discuss, research, or write about queer topics that I loved, but here I’ve been given resources and opportunities to contribute my own voice in academia, and to join conversations that have been otherwise silencing. Justin Daniel Domecillo English CHASS has opened my eyes to a lot of different aspects of not only college but the world, too. I get to experience the different aspects of media and how it affects our society and culture, and I really want to build a career off of that and use my creativity with it ... Dashia Vonzelle Saunderlin Media and Cultural Studies I am more of a creative spirit. Pre-Business allows me to do what I want to do and CHASS economics is a very interesting topic. It's about making decisions and choices. It's intriguing because it allows me to reflect on my own decisions too. Difza Ibragimova Pre-Business One of the things I like about CHASS is that it really makes us question what makes us human. I feel that it delves deeper and is more critical of what makes us ‘us,' and that’s why I chose history. I feel like it shows where we came from and how we started out. Jon Paredes History My favorite thing about CHASS is that it involves just as much unlearning as it does learning new material ... Being a CHASS student means constantly rethinking the structures and systems that we have always considered normal because normal isn’t always right. Sukhmeen Kaur Kahlon Political Science/Law & Society In CHASS, I've met different students of different ethnicity and backgrounds. It's really cool to see that because in STEM classes, you're so focused in your labs, you don't have time to communicate with each other. But CHASS is more like you talk with each other, you socialize to learn with each other, to learn from each other. I think that's the greatest advantage in being a CHASS student. Luis Sanchez Philosophy Previous Next More than a Major At the College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences (CHASS), you’re not only part of the biggest student body UCR, you are seen, supported, and challenged as an individual. At CHASS, you don’t have to limit yourself to one discipline. You can create an interdisciplinary program that’s as multifaceted as you are. Departments Majors & Minors Research Centers & labs Connect with CHASS Instagram | @ucrchass Get Help Now UCR offers support to students, faculty and staff affected by sexual violence, harassment, or discrimination. Visit help.ucr.edu. The College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences (CHASS) is committed to academic freedom. Our faculty are established and admired scholars in their respective fields and are valued members of our university. All of our scholars and creative artists at University of California, Riverside (UCR) have the right of academic freedom necessary to pursue scholarship and research on important subjects and to reach conclusions even if some might disagree with those conclusions. Exploring challenging and important questions is exactly what scholars in a world-class university should be doing. Protecting free speech and fostering opportunities for civil engagement are at the core of CHASS at UCR. We strongly believe that only by listening to others can we begin to understand their perspectives. Concurrently, we also believe that we are best heard when we are respectful and inclusive in our speech, whether we are faculty, a student, staff or a community member. In pursuit of these ideals, CHASS stands committed to social justice and supports our faculty whose rigorous and responsible scholarship refuses to shy away from acknowledging the enduring fact of inequality. In the face of competing claims to truth, the work of UCR faculty is driven by carefully ascertained evidence. CHASS honors and fosters the multiple points of view of its faculty, students, and staff whose experiences and beliefs comprise a wide spectrum. In that vein, the College strongly supports perspectives consistent with our UCR Principles of Community... In addition, CHASS abhors all acts of sexual violence, sexual harassment, abuse of power, and bullying in any form. As Dean of CHASS, I applaud the bravery and selflessness of students, faculty, and staff who have come forward to expose and to prevent further harm caused to our community. We want to ensure a thorough, fair, and transparent application of the University’s disciplinary procedures and policies, including the Faculty Code of Conduct, to review and adjudicate cases of alleged sexual harassment, abuse of power, and other improper activities. I pledge to work with all employees within CHASS to ensure a climate which values the contributions and potential of all of our members, while at the same time creating an environment where the CHASS community feels safe to report and proactively prevent sexual violence, sexual harassment, abuse of power, and bullying. READ MORE Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences 3400 HMNSS Building 900 University Avenue Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3683 fax: (951) 827-5836 Find Us Follow US: Follow CHASS on Twitter Visit the CHASS YouTube channel Follow CHASS on Instagram Connect to CHASS on LinkedIn Subscribe to CHASS news via RSS Related Links myUCR Campus Resources Graduate Division Extension Give to CHASS Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel