Home Home Our Services Advisors, Majors, & Minors Petitions & Forms Pre-Business Program Undeclared Program Transition Advising Academic Standing Honor List and Probation Transcripts Grading Options Computing GPA Breadth Course List Degree Requirements Three-Year Pathways to Graduation Graduation Application & Commencement Information Readmission to CHASS Campus Resources Calendar Meet Our Staff Filing Period to Submit an Application for Graduation Summer 2021 Candidates: April 1, 2021 – July 1, 2021 by 4 PM Fall 2021 Candidates: May 17, 2021 - Aug. 15, 2021 by 4pm Winter 2022 Candidates: Nov. 1, 2021 - Dec. 1, 2021 by 4pm Spring 2022 Candidates: Feb. 7, 2022 – Mar. 1, 2022 by 4pm Fall 2021 Dean's Orientation Schedule Announcements Meet with an Academic Advisor Effective Spring 2022, both in-person and remote advising will be available. When offered, students will have the option to select in-person or remote appointments with their Academic Advisor, Monday-Thursday (subject to availability). Once your appointment is confirmed, a detailed confirmation email with instructions will be sent to your R’mail address. To schedule an appointment or to view available drop-in hours, please use the CHASS Student Advising Appointment System (https://chassintranet.ucr.edu/saas2 ). If you are unable to access Zoom, please email your Academic Advisor. If you have a remote appointment, please log in and enter your Advisor's Zoom waiting room within 5 minutes of your scheduled time. If you are not present within 5 minutes, your appointment will be cancelled. If you have an in-person appointment, please log in at our kiosk, in our lobby (3400 HMNSS), within 5 minutes of your scheduled time. If you are not present within 5 minutes, your appointment will be cancelled. Drop-ins will only be available remotely. During drop-in hours, you will be able to log in to Zoom and enter an Advisor's Waiting Room. Please note that drop-ins are available during set times only, and are limited to 6 minutes. If you need more assistance, you must schedule an appointment. During peak times, Advisor Waiting Rooms may reach capacity and you may not be seen. In such a case, attend the next scheduled drop-in period or schedule an appointment. For additional instructions and information, please see the CHASS Student Affairs website (https://chassstudentaffairs.ucr.edu/advising/index.html ) If you are not familiar with Zoom, you can find some video tutorials here: https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/206618765-Zoom-Video-Tutorials. Also, you can find helpful information on YouTube. We are here to assist you in any way we can, so don’t hesitate to reach out to us. Follow us on Instagram for important announcements. Get to know CHASS. CHASS Mandatory Attendance Policy Ready to apply to the School of Business? Please check out this information page: School of Business Application Workshop Last day to withdraw from a course ($4 Fee). Enrollment Adjustment Forms are due at NOON. For Winter 2022 and Spring 2022, there is an extended deadline. Students can withdrawal without a 'W' from third week through the end of eighth week with advisor approval. Any withdrawals (with a 'W') after the eighth week will require College approval: May 20, 2022 Last day to change grading basis or variable units ($4 fee). Enrollment Adjustment Forms are due at NOON. May 20, 2022 Last day of instruction and to withdraw from UCR for the full term: June 3, 2022 Last day to withdraw from UCR for the full term: June 3, 2022 Last day of the quarter: June 10, 2022 Readmission Application Deadline for Fall 2022: June 20, 2022, by 4 PM- Readmit Form Effective Spring 2022, both in-person and remote advising will be available. When offered, students will have the option to select in-person or remote appointments with their Academic Advisor, Monday-Thursday (subject to availability). Once your appointment is confirmed, a detailed confirmation email with instructions will be sent to your R’mail address. To schedule an appointment or to view available drop-in hours, please use the CHASS Student Advising Appointment System (https://chassintranet.ucr.edu/saas2 ). If you are unable to access Zoom, please email your Academic Advisor. Drop-ins will only be available remotely. During drop-in hours, you will be able to log in to Zoom and enter an Advisor's Waiting Room. Please note that drop-ins are available during set times only, and are limited to 6 minutes. If you need more assistance, you must schedule an appointment. During peak times, Advisor Waiting Rooms may reach capacity and you may not be seen. In such a case, attend the next scheduled drop-in period or schedule an appointment. Drop-In Schedule Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 1 PM to 3 PM 1 PM to 3 PM 1 PM to 3 PM 9 AM to 11 AM 1 PM to 3 PM Our drop-In schedule is subject to change. To view our most updated advising schedule, please go to https://chassintranet.ucr.edu/saas2 If you're a CHASS Undeclared or Pre-Business student, please make an appointment with your advisor according to the first letter of your last name. Advisor Last Name Gabrielle Brewer A-Cl Carol May Co-Hs Josie Hernandez Hu-Lo Dennis David Lu-Pa Judith Lopez Pe-Su Tiffany Medley Ta-Z If you have a remote appointment, please log in and enter your Advisor's Zoom waiting room within 5 minutes of your scheduled time. If you are not present within 5 minutes, your appointment will be cancelled. If you have an in-person appointment, please log in at our kiosk, in our lobby (3400 HMNSS), within 5 minutes of your scheduled time. If you are not present within 5 minutes, your appointment will be cancelled. For additional instructions and information, please see the CHASS Student Affairs website (https://chassstudentaffairs.ucr.edu/advising/index.html ) If you are not familiar with Zoom, you can find some video tutorials here: https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/206618765-Zoom-Video-Tutorials. Also, you can find helpful information on YouTube. We are here to assist you in any way we can, so don’t hesitate to reach out to us. General Campus Information University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Career Opportunities • UCR Libraries Campus Status • Directions to UCR College Information CHASS Student Academic Affairs 3400 Humanities & Social Sciences Bldg. Tel: (951) 827-3683 | Fax: (951) 827-5836 Click Here for Operating Hours Related Links College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences SoBA Undergraduate Business Programs CNAS Undergraduate Academic Advising Center BCOE Student Academic Affairs Office of the Registrar