Menu Close Menu Skip to content Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public HealthHarvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health main site homepage Quicklinks About the School Academics Admissions Research Faculty Student Life News Alumni Frontiers Make A Gift Search for: Search CHDS_logo_grayscale Home Approaches Media Hub Resources At Harvard About Us Center for Health Decision Science faculty and scholars create a vibrant research and teaching community Faculty and affiliates at the Center for Health Decision Science collaborate on decision science research and initiatives Faculty at the Center for Health Decision Science use visual methods to convey complex concepts CHDS Awarded Innovation Fund Alan Colowick, MPH ’98, gifts a flexible fund to CHDS to support game-changing instructional models that prepare emerging global public health leaders to become better strategic thinkers, problem solvers, and decision makers. Teaching Benefit-Cost Analysis Register for the upcoming Harvard Chan School virtual short course, Benefit-Cost Analysis: Valuing Life and Health, instructed by CHDS Deputy Director Lisa A. Robinson on Sept 19 through Sept 23, 2022. RESEARCHER SPOTLIGHT Improving Cancer Screening CHDS’ Nicole Campos focuses on decision-analytic and mathematical modeling to evaluate cervical cancer prevention strategies. Read a recent article about cervical cancer screening authored by Campos and others. RESOURCE SPOTLIGHT Decision Science Repository Explore the CHDS repository of curated educational materials on the field of decision science, useful for a broad audience, and highlighting the relationship between decision science and other disciplines. Recent News Clinical Effectiveness with Steven Pearson May 26th, 2022 Steven Pearson spoke about the role of the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER) in encouraging the consideration of cost-effectiveness in US drug policy in a recent CHDS seminar. Read more... Economics of Integration of Immunization May 24th, 2022 The EPIC team at CHDS, led by CHDS faculty Stephen Resch, performed a systematic review of literature to describe research on the costs and cost-effectiveness of integrating Read more... Federal Food Service Guidelines in the Workplace May 17th, 2022 A recent study by CHDS Research Scientist Shafika Abrahams-Gessel and faculty Thomas A. Gaziano showed that federal food service guidelines improve health outcomes and are cost-saving. Despite Read more... Jinyi Zhu Successfully Defends Dissertation May 11th, 2022 Jinyi Zhu, 6th year doctoral student in Decision Science/Health Policy, successfully defended her thesis, “Decision Modeling to Inform Resource Prioritization: Methods and Read more... See more news Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College