Skip to main content Social Media Links Skip to main content College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences UCR Home Search QUICK LINKS Find People Give UC Riverside Department of Chemistry College of Natural & Agricultural Sciences Search About Chair's Welcome Department History Diversity, Equity & Inclusion People Faculty Analytical Chemistry Chemical Biology Computational Chemistry Environmental Chemistry Inorganic Chemistry Materials Chemistry Organic Chemistry Physical Chemistry Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Department Support Student Support Teaching Support Financing & Purchasing Research Support Shop Support Open Faculty Positions Academic Support Research Research Areas Analytical Chemistry Chemical Biology Chemistry Education Computational Chemistry Environmental Chemistry Inorganic Chemistry Materials Chemistry Organic Chemistry Physical Chemistry Centers & Facilities Programs Undergradute Program Academics Research Honors Courses Career Planning UCR Education Abroad Office Scholarships Prospective Students Who to Contact Current Graduate Students Applying to the Graduate Program Overview Ph.D. Program of Study Research Areas UCR Surroundings Housing Services Financial Support How To Apply & Checklist Admission Contacts Scholarships Who to Contact Curricular Materials Analytical Sciences Digital Library Case Study Collection Organic Chemistry Textbook Safety News & Seminars Seminars News Archive Newsletter Careers Open Faculty Positions Non-faculty Recruitment Contact UCR Home QUICK LINKS Find People Welcome to the UCR CNAS Department of Chemistry Welcome to the Department of Chemistry at the University of California, Riverside Our Department, and indeed the UC Riverside campus, continues to be in a period of rapid growth: outstanding faculty continue to join our Department, the numbers of graduate and undergraduate students continue to increase, a new chemistry building has been built. Chair's Welcome "I get to address and study real-life, relevant issues. My studies have an actual impact on the world." ERIC, CLASS OF ‘20 Undergrad Students Admissions & Majors Graduate Students Admissions & Majors Support the Department Donate Events and Seminars View Department News May 25, 2022 Courtney Ngai wins 2022 Women in Science Award! The Department of Chemistry is pleased to recognize an outstanding graduate student, Courtney Ngai, with the 2022 Women in Science Award and $1,000. Courtney is a synthetic chemist developing self-assembled, catalytically active metal-organic cage complexes. In particular, she is developing... Read More » April 19, 2022 Graduate Student Nhien Nguyen selected for the ACS Summer School on Green Chemistry & Sustainable Energy! Graduate Student Nhien Nguyen under Dr. Timothy Su has been selected by ACS to attend the Summer School on Green Chemistry & Sustainable Energy! The ACS Summer School on Green Chemistry & Sustainable Energy is a week-long once-in-a-lifetime experience! Each... Read More » April 12, 2022 Graduate Student Mario Cardenas selected for the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship! Graduate Student Mario Imex Aguirre Cardenas in PI Su Lab has been selected for the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship! The NSF GRFP recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students in NSF-supported STEM disciplines who are pursuing research-based master’s and... Read More » April 06, 2022 ACS Recognizes Ana Bahamonde for Outreach Activities! The American Chemical Society honors 33 local section and international chapter volunteers with its 2022 Outreach Volunteer of the Year Awards. The program, established by the Committee on Community Activities, recognizes extraordinary outreach volunteers. Read More » Read More CNAS News feed May 26, 2022 A drunk driver killed her parents. Now she’s graduating to honor them Azalea Corral has a family photo that shows her three younger siblings and parents smiling together against a Santa Barbara countryside backdrop. It was taken on February 8, 2020 — the last time they would pose together for a photo. The following day, both her parents succumbed to bodily injuries after a drunk driver struck them while they were out on their usual evening stroll in Goleta, a community about 12 miles west of Santa Barbara. Corral’s siblings were in the house; she was on a train back to Riverside. Read More » May 24, 2022 Pheromones lure deadly palm weevils to their doom UC Riverside scientists have a new chemical weapon to seduce and kill the invasive, long-nosed beetles destroying California palm trees by the tens of thousands. Read More » May 19, 2022 New strategies to save the world’s most indispensable grain A UC Riverside-led team has learned what happens to the roots of rice plants when they’re confronted with two types of stressful scenarios: too much water, or too little. These observations form the basis of new protective strategies. Read More » May 17, 2022 Remembering ‘isotope queen’ Marilyn Fogel, pioneering scientist, beloved mentor Marilyn Fogel, endowed geoecology professor at UC Riverside, died on May 11 in Mariposa, Calif. She was 69. She pioneered the use of isotopes to understand the life history of organisms, both modern and ancient. In so doing, she helped develop biogeochemistry as a new field of science and earned the moniker ‘isotope queen.’ Read More » View More Science News University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Dept. of Chemistry Chemical Sciences 501 Big Springs Road Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3789 fax: (951) 827-2435 email: barbara.outzen@ucr.edu Find Us COLLEGE OF NATURAL & AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES CNAS Dean's Office Geology Building, Room 2258 900 University Ave Riverside, CA 92521 Related Links CNAS Home Campus Store Careers Contact UCR Libraries Give Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Let us help you with your search × Enter your Search Criteria Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel