Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Chemistry Department of Chemistry Dartmouth's chemistry department combines the personalized instruction and mentoring of a small college with the expertise of a research university. We welcome prospective undergraduate majors and Ph.D. candidates, as well as other students interested in chemistry, the central science. Contact Us Twitter Chemistry@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail more Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Modified Majors Transfer Credit Resources Chemistry Placement Exams Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Awards CRC Freshman Chemistry Achievement Award The American Chemistry Society Undergraduate Award in Analytical Chemistry The American Institute of Chemists Foundation Student Award The Chandler T. White 1916 Research Prize The Elden Bennett Hartshorn Medal The Haseltine Chemistry Physics Prize The Hypercube Scholar Award The John L. Zabriskie Jr. '61 Senior Chemistry Prize The Leon Burr Richardson Chemistry Prize RSC Certificate of Excellence The Paul R. Shafer & Douglas M. Bowen Award The Stephen W. Wright '81 Pfizer Green Chemistry The T.J. Rodgers '70 Book Prize Chemistry Faculty Book Award Francis L. Town Scientific Prize Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Ph.D. Program 4+1 Master’s Program Apply Courses Resources Current Graduate Students Recent Graduates Graduate Awards The Dartmouth Graduate Studies Teaching Award The Hannah T. Croasdale Graduate Scholar Award The Karen E. Wetterhahn Graduate Fellowship in Chemistry The Walter H. Stockmayer Chemistry Graduate Fellowship The Arthur Dunham Holmes 1906 Memorial Graduate Fellowship The John H. Wolfenden Teaching Prize Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Areas Major Research Equipment Support Chemistry Research Back to Top Nav Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Plan Resources Statement on Systemic Racism Back to Top Nav People Faculty List Alumni Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Seminars and Colloquia Endowed Lecture Series Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Assistant Professor, Experimental Physical Chemistry Applications are invited for a faculty position at the level of Assistant Professor in the Chemistry Department at Dartmouth, starting July 1, 2022 Chenfeng Ke's Lab Turns Up the Heat on 3D Printing Inks A molecular "speed bump" adds function to new generation of printed objects. Dartmouth Research Improves a Popular Chemical Compound Dartmouth lab upgrades a molecule that is made from sugar and shaped like a doughnut. Christopher Sandford Joining Chemistry Department The Department of Chemistry is pleased to announce that Christopher Sandford will be joining Dartmouth as an Assistant Professor of Chemistry in the Fall of 2021. Jacquelyne Read Joining Chemistry Department The Department of Chemistry is pleased to announce that Jacquelyne A. Read will be joining Dartmouth as a Research Assistant Professor of Chemistry in the Fall of 2021. The department is excited and jubilant about Kat Mirica's promotion to Associate Professor with tenure! Congratulations Kat for a well deserve promotion" Jane Lipson, Albert W. Smith Professor of Chemistry, has agreed to serve as Associate Dean of the Sciences I am pleased to announce that Jane Lipson, Albert W. Smith Professor of Chemistry, has agreed to serve as Associate Dean of the Sciences beginning July 1, 2021. Faculty Search: Tenure-Track Assistant Professor (Organic Chemistry, broadly defined) https://apply.interfolio.com/78207 Assistant Professor Mirica Wins National Teacher-Scholar Honor The Dreyfus Foundation award recognizes work in the classroom and in the laboratory. Jon Kull '88 Is Reappointed Guarini Dean Kull, the Rodgers Professor of Chemistry, will serve another four-year term. Recent Publications view all A Comparative Analysis of the Membrane Binding and Remodeling Properties of Two Related Sorting Nexin Complexes Involved in Auto Erin F Reinhart, Sarah Katzenell, Devika Andhare, Katherine M Bauer, Michael J. Ragusa Biochemistry. 2022, Epub ahead of print. doi: 10.1021/acs.biochem.2c00007 Dimerization-dependent membrane tethering by Atg23 is essential for yeast autophagy Wayne D Hawkins, Hana Popelka, Daniel J Klionsky, , Kelsie A Leary, Devika Andhare, , Michael J. Ragusa, et al. Cell Rep. 2022, 39(3):110702. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2022.110702 A Heteromeric Carboxylic-acid-based Single Crystalline Crosslinked Organic Framework Dr. Rongran Liang,Dr. Jayanta Samanta,Dr. Baihao Shao,Mingshi Zhang, Dr. Richard J. Staples,Albert D. Chen, Miao Tang, Dr. Yuyang W, Ivan Aprahamian, Chenfeng Ke Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2021, 10.1002/anie.202109987 Dynamic enzymatic synthesis of γ-cyclodextrin using a photoremovable hydrazone template Sirun Yang, Dennis Larsen, Maria Pellegrini, Sebastian Meier, Dale F. Mierke, Sebastian Meier, Ivan Aprahamian, Sophie R. Beeren Chem 2021, 7, 10.1016/j.chempr.2021.05.013 Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Chemistry Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Modified Majors Transfer Credit Resources Chemistry Placement Exams Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Awards CRC Freshman Chemistry Achievement Award The American Chemistry Society Undergraduate Award in Analytical Chemistry The American Institute of Chemists Foundation Student Award The Chandler T. White 1916 Research Prize The Elden Bennett Hartshorn Medal The Haseltine Chemistry Physics Prize The Hypercube Scholar Award The John L. Zabriskie Jr. '61 Senior Chemistry Prize The Leon Burr Richardson Chemistry Prize RSC Certificate of Excellence The Paul R. Shafer & Douglas M. Bowen Award The Stephen W. Wright '81 Pfizer Green Chemistry The T.J. Rodgers '70 Book Prize Chemistry Faculty Book Award Francis L. Town Scientific Prize Graduate Overview Ph.D. Program 4+1 Master’s Program Apply Courses Resources Current Graduate Students Recent Graduates Graduate Awards The Dartmouth Graduate Studies Teaching Award The Hannah T. Croasdale Graduate Scholar Award The Karen E. Wetterhahn Graduate Fellowship in Chemistry The Walter H. Stockmayer Chemistry Graduate Fellowship The Arthur Dunham Holmes 1906 Memorial Graduate Fellowship The John H. Wolfenden Teaching Prize Research Faculty Research Areas Major Research Equipment Support Chemistry Research Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Plan Resources Statement on Systemic Racism People Faculty List Alumni News & Events Overview Seminars and Colloquia Endowed Lecture Series My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback