/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses Faculty Department Faculty Emeritus Faculty Research Faculty Lecturers C&CB Field Faculty Adjunct Faculty Research Department Researchers Centers, Facilities and Support Health and Safety Procedures Seminars and Lectures Upcoming Colloquia About Us Department News Department History Department Contacts Alumni and Friends Community Resources Faculty Resources Student Resources The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Building on history to invent the future Chemistry and Chemical Biology The Cornell Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology has a long history of discovery, innovation and scholarship. We are fortunate to count Nobel Prize winners, National Academy Members, MacArthur Fellows and Guggenheim Fellows among our faculty. Teaching thousands of undergraduate and advanced students each year, education is a central focus of our endeavors. Our graduate students and postdoctoral fellows perform cutting-edge research that is supported by many national granting agencies and foundations. We are committed to the advancement and inclusion of all students and aim to foster a diverse environment for science and learning. CCB News 2022 Chemistry and Chemical Biology Undergraduate Award Recipients The Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology celebrates its undergraduate student award recipients. Read More Alumnus Song Jin named the Francis J. DiSalvo Professor of Physical Sciences Alumnus Song Jin was awarded a WARF Named Professorship and chose to name his professorship after his Cornell faculty mentor, Francis J. DiSalvo. Read More Celebrating 2022 Graduates in Chemistry & Chemical Biology The Department of Chemistry & Chemical Biology congratulates our graduating seniors. Read More Reunion 2022 features host of A&S events A number of special events are planned in the College of Arts & Sciences to celebrate Reunion 2022. Read More Twenty-five receive awards recognizing inclusive excellence The awards recognize the excellence represented within the graduate community and celebrates students for their accomplishments. Read More Spongy material captures carbon dioxide in cavities The materials are made from sugar and low-cost alkali metal salts, so they would be inexpensive enough for large-scale deployment. Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Arts and Sciences faculty honored for teaching, advising excellence "These faculty members and graduate teaching assistants have made tremendous contributions for the benefit of our students, guiding their educational paths and molding their experiences." Read More See more news Chemistry Links of Interest Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Department Faculty Course Listings CCB Events Jun 03 "Synthetic Studies and Applications of Complex Natural Products" Chemistry Seminar Baker Lab View all CCB Events Faculty Research Abruña wins national award in analytical chemistry 1/25/2021 Green hydrogen filling station fueled by Cornell research 3/11/2021 Researcher's chiral graphene stacks break new ground 2/24/2016 Researchers disrupt signaling pathway to treat colitis 10/08/2020 122 Baker Laboratory Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology 607-255-4175 Twitter Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top