Skip To Content Skip To Navigation University of Notre Dame College of Science Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry SearchSearch Contact Menu Search Home Faculty Graduate Undergraduate Facilities Centers News Events Contact About Brandon Ashfeld Synthetic Organic Chemistry Transition Metal Catalysis in Synthetic Methods Development Brian M. Baker Biophysics and Structural Biology of molecular recognition and cellular communication Brian Blagg Design and Synthesis of Novel Therapeutics Paul Bohn Molecular Nanoscience Seth N. Brown Inorganic and Organic Reaction Mechanisms Jessica Brown Biochemistry & Structural Biology of RNA Triple Helices Jon Camden Molecular Plasmonics and Surface Enhanced Spectroscopies Francis J. Castellino In Vitro and In Vivo Relationships between Hemostasis and Inflammation Matthew Champion Microbial Proteomics and Metagenomics Patricia L. Clark Protein Biophysics in Living Cells Steven Corcelli Structure, Dynamics, & Spectroscopy of Aqueous & Biomolecular Systems Juan Del Valle Organic Synthesis & Chemical Biology Haifeng Gao Polymer Chemistry and Soft Nanomaterials J. Daniel Gezelter Molecular Dynamics of Complex Interfaces Holly Goodson Molecular and Cell Biology and Biophysics Gregory V. Hartland Spectroscopy and Dynamics of Nanomaterials Paul W. Huber RNA Expression, Processing, and Localization Vlad M. Iluc Organometallic Synthesis and Catalysis Adam Jaffe Design of Hybrid and Solid-State Materials Prashant Kamat Nanostructure Architectures, Energy Conversion, Environmental Remediation S. Alex Kandel Surface Chemistry at the Molecular Scale Masaru K. Kuno Low Dimensional Nanomaterials Marya Lieberman Analytical Chemistry in Low Resource Settings Laurie Littlepage Mechanisms of Cancer Progression Christian Melander Novel Antibiotic Strategies Shahriar Mobashery Bioorganic Chemistry and Biochemistry Jeffrey W. Peng Biophysics NMR Methods and Biomolecular Dynamics Anthony S. Serianni Biomolecular Structure and NMR Spectroscopy Arnaldo Serrano Nonlinear and Multidimensional Spectroscopy Slavi C. Sevov Inorganic & Solid State Chemistry Bradley D. Smith Bioorganic & Supramolecular Chemistry Emily Tsui Catalyst Design and Synthesis Rebecca Whelan New Methods for Detection and Treatment of Ovarian Cancer Katharine White Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer Olaf Wiest Organic & Bioorganic reaction mechanisms Apply to the Graduate Program Safety Employment Opportunities Faculty Resources Workplace Standards Stockroom Directory Diversity Alumni LinkedIn YouTube Facebook Contact News New discoveries from Baker laboratory may help usher in new era of cancer immunotherapy Marya Lieberman wins 2022 James A. Burns, C.S.C., Award Visit from the Heroes Foundation Highlights Cancer Research in Indiana Events Jun 29 Lydia M. Contreras (University of Texas, Austin) 4:00pm B01 McCourtney Hall Aug 24 Jim Mayer (Yale University) 4:00pm TBA Departmental Colloquium Aug 25 Courtney Aldrich (University of Minnesota) 2:00pm B01 McCourtney Hall (CBBI) Chemistry, Biochemistry, Biology Interface Program Home Faculty Graduate Undergraduate Facilities Centers News Events Contact About Apply to the Graduate Program Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry 251 Nieuwland Science Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone 574.631.7058 Fax 574.631.6652 chemistry@nd.edu Accessibility Information