Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Chemistry myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Overview Contact Us News Academics Select to follow link Degrees Select to follow link Chemistry Undergraduate BA Chemistry Undergraduate BS Chemistry Undergraduate Minor Chemistry Graduate MS Chemistry Graduate PhD Chemistry Non-Degree Advising Select to follow link Undergraduate Advising Graduate Advising Non-Majors Honors Admission Select to follow link Undergraduate Admissions Select to follow link Scholarship Opportunities Select to follow link ChemScholars Program Graduate Admissions Research Select to follow link Research Areas Select to follow link Bioanalytical Chemistry Biological & Biophysical Chemistry Catalysis Energy & the Environment Inorganic Chemistry Materials Nanoscience Organic Chemistry Physical Chemistry Spectroscopy Synthesis Theory & Computation Undergraduate Research Select to follow link Getting Involved Research Courses Research Safety and Ethics Summer Research and Internship Opportunities Dublin City University Exchange Program Beckman Scholars Program Center for Undergraduate Research Sutton Family Research Impact Award Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Giving Our Alumni Resources Select to follow link Faculty and Staff Students Select to follow link Undergraduate Graduate Chem GSO Room Reservations Jobs FAQs People Select to follow link Faculty Staff Graduate Students Courtesy Adjunct Emeritus Faculty Chemistry Staff Duties Safety Seminars Select to follow link Departmental Seminars Analytical Seminars DyMERS Seminars Organic Seminars Current Week's Seminars Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Chemistry Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search KU Chemistry KU Chemistry provides cutting-edge education and research opportunities. Diversity in our research and a strong culture of collegial interaction among the faculty, staff and students has always set us apart. We put a strong premium on interdisciplinary research and the vast majority of our faculty have research collaborations that involve other departments at KU, around the country and abroad. Integrated Science Building opened in 2018 By the numbers Top 50 Ranking in US Graduate Programs for Public Schools 14 NSF Career Awards among active Chemistry Faculty $160,000 in annual student scholarships MORE ABOUT KU CHEMISTRY ABOUT Learn about KU Chemistry, the latest Department news, view a list of upcoming seminars and contact information. MORE ABOUT KU CHEMISTRY UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM Explore the academic programs and majors we offer to undergraduate students. MORE ABOUT UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM GRADUATE PROGRAM Explore our Top 50 nationally ranked graduate program offering multidisciplinary sciences, collaborations and strong student support. MORE ABOUT GRADUATE PROGRAM PEOPLE The Department's research programs and faculty place KU Chemistry at the leading edge of scientific research in a broad range of areas. FIND OUR FACULTY, STAFF and STUDENTS Research, Alumni & Friends, Resources and Support Chemistry RESEARCH The Department's research programs and faculty place KU Chemistry at the leading edge of scientific research in a broad range of areas. MORE ABOUT RESEARCH ALUMNI & FRIENDS Help us keep in touch with our KU Chemistry Alumni and Friends. FOR OUR ALUMNI & FRIENDS RESOURCES Check out our sorted lists of important resources for faculty and staff and students. RESOURCES SUPPORT CHEMISTRY Your generous support enables us to support many of our activities, including graduate student support, undergraduate programs, faculty development, and program and special initiatives. SUPPORT CHEMISTRY News from the Department Professor Heather Desaire named April 2022 Sutton Family Research Impact Award Recipient The Department of Chemistry congratulates Professor Heather Desaire on receiving the April 2022 Sutton Family Research Impact Award! The Sutton Award is a monthly competition among chemistry faculty. Every month, the Chemistry Department Chair and Associate Chairs review the peer-reviewed papers… Foundation Distinguished Professor Dr. Steven Soper among top 2% of scientists worldwide cited by others in research publications Congratulations to Foundation Distinguished Professor Dr. Steven Soper, who is among the most cited researchers in the world, according to a study from Stanford University! In addition to Dr. Soper, 15 other KU Engineering faculty members are also in the Top 2%. Emma Cosner receives University-wide prestigious Class of 1913 Award Congratulations to Emma Cosner, a senior from Overland Park [who just graduated] majoring in chemistry and minoring in physics, on receiving the University-wide Class of 1913 Award! The award is a prestigious University Award granted annually to two graduating students who "show evidence of… Center creating lab-on-a-chip technology for medical tests wins $6.6 million in continued NIH funding LAWRENCE — A research center based at the University of Kansas that develops rapid next-generation tests for a host of human ailments like cancer, stroke and COVID-19 recently earned $6.6 million in continued funding over the next five years from the National Institutes of Health's View all News The 2021 KU Chemistry newsletter is up online! The University of Kansas Department of Chemistry is excited to announce that our 2021 Newsletter is available online! View online newsletter Professor Heather Desaire named April 2022 Sutton Family Research Impact Award recipient The Department of Chemistry congratulates Professor Heather Desaire on receiving the April 2022 Sutton Family Research Impact Award! Her winning paper was published in the Journal of Proteome Research and is titled, "Exposing the Brain Proteomic Signatures of Alzheimer’s Disease in Diverse Racial Groups: Leveraging Multiple Data Sets and Machine Learning." Read More Support KU Chemistry The rich research experiences for our students that set KU Chemistry apart from other programs, would not be possible without the generosity of our donors. Your giving provides opportunities for our talented graduate and undergraduate student and our dedicated faculty to excel in the research lab, classroom, and beyond. Give to KU Chemistry Research Areas The Department's research programs and faculty place KU Chemistry at the leading edge of scientific research in a broad range of areas, including bioanalytical chemistry, nanoscience, spectroscopy, and more. Research Areas Award-Winning Faculty Our highly recognized faculty consists of 29 active faculty, including five distinguished professors. Our faculty members' research is concentrated in a broad range of areas, from bioanalytical chemistry to computational chemistry. Faculty Degrees Offered The Department of Chemistry offers two curriculum degree plans, an American Chemical Society certified BS and also a BA. Ranked in the Top 50 U.S. Graduate Programs for Public Schools, our graduate program offers a Chemistry Ph.D. and MS. Explore Degrees KU Chemistry Events See all events Welcome to KU Listen to Topher Enneking, a spoken word poet and former KU football player, as he weaves the experience of KU and its traditions through this storytelling and wordplay performance. Learn more about KU traditions Follow us on Social Media! FacebookInstagramTwitterYouTubeLinkedIn Integrated Science Building (ISB) 1567 Irving Hill Road, Room 1140 Lawrence, KS 66045 chemistry@ku.edu 785-864-4670 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Degrees Offered Give to KU Chemistry Research Areas Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.