Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers About» Chemical Engineering at Columbia Educational Objectives Diversity, Equity and Inclusion The Gaden Memorial Lecture Directions Academics» Undergraduate Program Master of Science Program PhD Program Careers» Students Alumni Employers Resources» Conference Room Reservation Room Access Application Form Zoom Meeting Requests Poster Printing High Performance Computing Cluster Request Form People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Bulletin Chemical Engineering Apply Now! Faculty Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Apply Now! Faculty Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Apply Now! Applications are still being accepted to the Chemical Engineering MS and PhD programs. Program options include Scientist-to-Engineer training as well as concentrations in Biotechnology and Biopharmaceuticals, Climate & Energy Solutions, and Data Science. To learn more and apply, click here. Our faculty is made up of leading researchers, investigators, and teachers in Chemical Engineering. Faculty Directory Learn more about the department's commitment to and action towards diversity, equity and inclusion Learn more News » Press Release Dr. Asher Williams will be joining the faculty as a tenure-track Assistant Professor in July 2023 Dr. Williams was awarded RPI’s Presidential Graduate Research Fellowship, named a Class of 2020 Changemaker and an MIT Rising Star in Chemical Engineering More Apr 20 2022 Dr. Juliana Carneiro will be joining the department of Chemical Engineering faculty as a tenure-track Assistant Professor in January 2023 The Carneiro research group will tackle the design of electrocatalytic materials and systems to seek robust, economical, and modular innovations that enable More Apr 07 2022 Researchers Win ARPA-E Grants for Disruptive “Green” Technologies Dan Esposito and Dan Steingart each receive ARPA-E award to research lower cost green hydrogen generation and Li-ion batteries More Mar 08 2022 | By Jeffrey Fitts Chemical Engineering at Columbia Runtime 3:38 Chemical Engineering is a highly interdisciplinary field concerned with materials and processes at the heart of a broad range of technologies. Practicing chemical engineers are the experts in charge of the development and production of diverse products in traditional chemical industries as well as many emerging new technologies. The chemical engineer guides the passage of the product from the laboratory to the marketplace, from ideas and prototypes to functioning articles and processes, from theory to reality. This requires a remarkable depth and breadth of understanding of physical and chemical aspects of materials and their production. Chemical Engineering at Columbia Runtime 3:38 Chemical Engineering is a highly interdisciplinary field concerned with materials and processes at the heart of a broad range of technologies. Practicing chemical engineers are the experts in charge of the development and production of diverse products in traditional chemical industries as well as many emerging new technologies. The chemical engineer guides the passage of the product from the laboratory to the marketplace, from ideas and prototypes to functioning articles and processes, from theory to reality. This requires a remarkable depth and breadth of understanding of physical and chemical aspects of materials and their production. Master of Science in Chemical Engineering Runtime 4:02 Learn how electives are designed to guide the individual student experience in the Master of Science in Chemical Engineering program at Columbia University. Undergraduate Program in Chemical Engineering Runtime 3:02 Engineering For Humanity Campaign Runtime 1:20 Our vision—Columbia Engineering for Humanity—sets a bold path for a sustainable, healthy, secure, connected, and creative humanity. It is exemplified by the pioneering work our faculty and students are doing across departments and disciplines, in partnership with sister schools, institutes, government, and industry. We have never been more optimistic about the role engineering can play in the service of society and in bringing those advances to the many challenges facing our world. See the impact Columbia Engineering is having today. Soundtrack by $3.33 Celebrating 150 Years of Columbia Engineering Runtime 5:12 Take a walk back through history to see some of the milestones and achievements that made The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science the institution it is today. Connect twitter MORE {{item.username}} | {{item.date}} 500 W. 120th Street #801 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-4453 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University sitemap