Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry Main Navigation Programs People Students Research Events Employment About Giving Alumni apply for Graduate Program Apply now for our graduate programs: M.S. Chemistry or M.A. Chemistry . Meet our Current Graduate Students! Department News Read the Fall Edition of the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry Newsletter, Periodic News! We are excited to share with you the latest edition of the Department newsletter! Find out all the latest happenings in the department. Calendar January 22: First day of classes January 22-February 6: All classes will be meeting for online instruction the first two weeks of spring 2022 February 7: Classes scheduled on campus will begin meeting in person February 21: President's Day - CAMPUS CLOSED March 28-April 3: Spring Recess - NO CLASSES; CAMPUS OPEN EXCEPT on Thursday, March 31, Cesar Chavez Day March 31: Cesar Chavez Day - CAMPUS CLOSED April 4: Classes resume May 13: Last Day of Classes May 14-20: Semester Examinations May 23-26: Commencement Exercises May 27: Semester Ends; Grades Due Alumni Spotlight Damaris Chavez My name is Damaris Chavez. I graduated from CSUF with a BS Chemistry degree in 2019. Since graduating, I started working as an Air Quality Inspector at South Coast Air Quality Management District. My position consists of visiting various types of facilities and making sure they are in compliance with air quality regulations. Having spent 3 years conducting research in the Hudson lab and learning an extensive amount of atmospheric chemistry, I knew I wanted to work for a company that aspires to help make a difference in the environment and South Coast AQMD does that. Our mission is to clean the air for the health and safety of the public even if it means regulating emissions one facility at a time. I hope to one day work in the laboratory within South Coast AQMD, but am grateful to kick start my career as an inspector. I would not be where I am today without the guidance of the professors at CSUF. Graduate Program Graduate Student Experiences Alumni Spotlight Aida Dadashzadeh My name is Aida Dadashzadeh! I graduated with a Biochemstry B.S. in December of 2018. Currently, I am in my third year of dental school at USC. During my time at CSUF, I was an active member of the Pre-dental society, I was in the honors program, and conducted research in Dr. Allyson Fry-Petit’s lab . I miss studying late at night in the TSU, visiting Dr. FP in her office and talking about life, and the support all my professors gave me. Ask questions, come prepared, and treat every failure as a learning opportunity. This site is maintained by Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact bmatthew@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.