Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Search this site Submit Search Menu Home People Training & Education Postbac Program Directors' Message Info for Prospective Postbacs Info for Prospective Mentors FAQ Undergraduate Programs Research Application Information 2020 Research Projects 2019 Research Projects 2018 Research Projects Entrepreneurship Application Information Entrepreneurship Mentors Funded Projects Graduate Student Programs Chemistry/Biology Interface SIGF Affiliated with ChEM-H Postdoc Programs Seed Grants Funded Projects Postdoc Society Retreat Research Faculty scholars Research Areas Knowledge Centers High-Throughput Screening Macromolecular Structure Medicinal Chemistry Metabolomics Protein Engineering Innovative Medicines Accelerator (IMA) Microbiome Therapies (MITI) News & Events News Events Opportunities Giving Funding Opportunities Faculty Recruitment Staff Opportunities About What is ChEM-H? Who is ChEM-H? Institute Scholars Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Undergraduate Scholars Why is diversity our mission? How can you join? Benefactor Contact Us Philanthropic investment renames Stanford ChEM-H The investment in Sarafan ChEM-H also accelerates transformative molecular research Read more Main content start Bridging chemistry, engineering, biology, and medicine to improve human health Sarafan ChEM-H is built for the future of research. Only by connecting chemists, engineers, biologists, and clinicians can we understand life at a molecular level and apply that knowledge to improving human health. "ChEM-H is a hub of innovation that brings the power of diversity to improve human health: diversity of disciplines - life, physical and clinical sciences - and most importantly, diversity of people." -Carolyn Bertozzi Baker Family Director of Sarafan ChEM-H, Anne T. and Robert M. Bass Professor in the School of Humanities and Sciences, and HHMI Investigator Learn more about diversity, equity, and inclusion at ChEM-H Transforming research The Knowledge Centers are shared resources that allow more labs to advance their research goals Start a collaboration Transforming human health Faculty at Sarafan ChEM-H lead labs that tackle big problems in human health, like cancer, aging, and infectious disease Meet our faculty Transforming training The next generation of scientific leaders need a new kind of scientific training Explore training programs A launchpad for innovation A Sarafan ChEM-H partnership with Stanford Medicine, the Stanford Innovative Medicines Accelerator (IMA) is accelerating the translation of Stanford’s research discoveries into new medicines while expanding knowledge of human biology. Through its faculty expertise and Knowledge Centers, Stanford ChEM-H serves as a core engine of the IMA’s efforts to catalyze discovery. Learn more about the IMA Stanford Sarafan ChEM-H Web Login Address Sarafan ChEM-H Stanford ChEM-H Building 290 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305 United States Twitter Useful Links Contact Us Chemistry/Biology Interface (CBI) Graduate Training Program Dean of Research Building information Contact our facilities team for deliveries and building access Submit a facilities ticket Stanford ChEM-H Building Make a Gift Subscribe to our quarterly newsletter to learn about recent research and news from ChEM-H. Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top