Search site About About Us People Contact Media Inquiries FAQs What People Are Saying About CHIBE Partners Roybal Center For CHIBE Affiliates Only Leonard Davis Institute Impact Research Our Research Areas Way to Health Opportunities Joining CHIBE Funding Opportunities Training Publications News CHIBE in the News CHIBEblog CHIBE Annual Report CHIBE’s Healthy Nudge Newsletter Search Our Research informs policy, improves health care delivery and increases healthy behaviors. Our Resources provide researchers and clinicians with evidence to optimize health care outcomes Our People uncover key behavioral insights to address complex public health problems with novel solutions. Our News covers the latest advancements in behavioral economics applied to health care's leading challenges. At the Center for Health Incentives and Behavioral Economics, researchers investigate how the science of behavioral economics can improve health outcomes. What is Behavioral Economics? Behavioral economics is a field of inquiry that uses principles of economics and psychology to understand how individuals make decisions and uses those insights to try to help people make choices that are consistent with their own long-term interests. Where We Work Since 2008, CHIBE has worked with a multitude of private and public sector partners to develop and test scalable and cost-effective interventions that have improved the health of tens of millions of individuals. We’ve worked with a variety of groups, including health systems, clinicians, communities, individuals, non-governmental organizations, consumer companies, governments, and health insurers. Who Are We? Drawing on the expertise of faculty from across the University of Pennsylvania, the Center for Health Incentives and Behavioral Economics (CHIBE) conducts behavioral economics research aimed at reducing the disease burden from major U.S. public health problems. Originally founded within the Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics, our mission is to inform health policy, improve healthcare delivery and increase healthy behavior. Download our CHIBE one-pager here. Recent Publications Electronic Health Record-Embedded, Behavioral Science-Informed System for Smoking Cessation for the Parents of Pediatric Patients May 18, 2022 The Predictive Power of Exponential Numeracy May 14, 2022 Patient and Clinician Nudges To Improve Symptom Management in Advanced Cancer Using Patient-Generated Health Data: Study Protocol for the PROStep Randomised Controlled Trial May 12, 2022 Show More CHIBE in the News Boston Globe: Please Tell Us How Much You Liked This Article May 6, 2022 NPR: Why Are Masks Such A Big Deal For So Many? Psychologists Have Thoughts April 27, 2022 Freakonomics: Should We Have to Pay for Our Sins? April 21, 2022 Show More CHIBEblog Dr. Alison Buttenheim Promoted to Full Professor June 1, 2022 Dr. Rinad Beidas Selected to Participate in Executive Leadership in Academic Medicine Program May 27, 2022 Dr. Amol Navathe Named Vice Chair of MedPAC May 26, 2022 Show More Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Tweets by PennCHIBE View UPenn CHIBE Tweets Tweets by kevin_volpp View Director Kevin Volpp's Tweets Copyright © 2020 Center for Health Incentives and Behavioral Economics at the Leonard Davis Institute (CHIBE). All rights reserved. Web Development by Boxcar Studio Penn Privacy Policy Contact Us University of Pennsylvania 1118 Blockley Hall 423 Guardian Drive Philadelphia, PA 19104-6021 chibe@pennmedicine.upenn.edu Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Contact Form Follow Us Search About About Us People Contact Media Inquiries FAQs What People Are Saying About CHIBE Partners Roybal Center For CHIBE Affiliates Only Leonard Davis Institute Impact Research Our Research Areas Way to Health Opportunities Joining CHIBE Funding Opportunities Training Publications News CHIBE in the News CHIBEblog CHIBE Annual Report CHIBE’s Healthy Nudge Newsletter