Skip to main content Search Search Toggle Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Cornell Chimes Close Main Menu Main navigation About Chimesmasters Giving Merchandise Media Welcome What's New in the Tower May - Congratulations and best of luck to our graduating seniors Carey Lau, Linda Li, and Kayla Shames as well as all Cornell graduates. Go class of 2022! The tower door opens 5-10 minutes before the scheduled concert time and closes midway through the concert. On occasion a reservation may be required which will be noted on our concert schedule. Please check our concert schedule for study period, finals, and senior days. Masks are required in the tower at all times. Follow @cornellchimes on Instagram. Concerts The Cornell Chimes are the university's oldest musical tradition, and one of the most frequently played set of bells on any American college campus. Housed in historic McGraw Tower, the 21-bells are played primarily by student chimesmasters. Check the concert schedule for complete concert and special event information. Schedule All concerts can be heard from many beautiful locations outside of McGraw Tower including the top of Libe Slope, the Arts Quad, and the Donor Overlook. Playlist Did you enjoy a recent concert, but didn't recognize all the songs? View the playlists from the past week. Listen We recommend listening to a concert from the McGraw Tower Terrace or the Arts Quad. If you're not on campus, you can listen to recordings. Specialty Concerts The Cornell Chimesmasters are available to play for your wedding or special event. Contact Us Cornell Chimes 136 Ho Plaza Ithaca, New York 14853 (607) 255-5350 chimes@cornell.edu Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Quick Links Concert Schedule Recent Concert Playlists Listen to the Bells Specialty Concert Request Web Accessibility If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.