Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Choose Washington State University Choose the WSU that’s right for you Our six campuses provide outstanding learning opportunities—and each offers its own distinct student environment. Explore your options and customize your education to create the Washington State University experience that’s perfect for you. Pullman Vancouver Tri-Cities Spokane Everett Global WSU Pullman The University’s first and largest campus offers a classic college town experience with on-campus living and a rich variety of research and involvement opportunities. Explore more WSU Vancouver Located in the dynamic Vancouver/Portland metro area, this campus is known for its close-knit student community and real world research opportunities. Explore more WSU Tri-Cities Combining a small-college feel with the resources of a leading public research university, this campus is a great fit for students who thrive in project-based learning. Explore more WSU Spokane Located in a major regional medical hub, this is the University’s health sciences campus. Transfer to WSU Spokane after completing your first two years of study at any other campus. Explore more WSU Everett The University’s newest campus—designed for transfer students–focuses on industry-aligned degree programs. Transfer to WSU Everett after completing your first two years of study at any other campus. Explore more WSU Global (online) The same faculty who teach at our campuses deliver a virtual campus experience to wherever you are through the University’s online global campus. Explore more Need to Know Freshman Application Transfer Application Tuition and costs Price calculator Find scholarships Apply for financial aid The way I envisioned my future before WSU has definitely changed. … There are so many opportunities to network and work with people who will help you become the best person you can be. I feel like I have a whole community rooting for me. –Meet Oluwanifemi “Nife” Shola-Dare