Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Exec Ed Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Center for Human Resources Menu About us Faculty Ph.D. Students Research Publications In the News Collaborations Upcoming Events Become a Corporate Member Center for Human Resources The Center for Human Resources is a hub for academics and practitioners interested in human capital issues including the practice of human resources as well as vendors in the human capital industry. Access the most current thinking on talent management, workforce training and education, diversity and more through our faculty research and our networking opportunities with fellow HR executives from around the world. Faculty Headed by Peter Cappelli, George W. Taylor Professor of Management at Wharton, the Center includes faculty from across Wharton departments. Faculty at the Center LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE The Wharton Leadership Conference is returning! In-person, On-campus, Tuesday, June 07, 2022 at the University of Pennsylvania PEOPLE & ORGANIZATIONS CONFERENCE We had a successful virtual People & Organizations Conference 2021 on 24th – 25th September organized by the Wharton Center for Human Resources. The Plenary and the roundtable sessions comprised of approx. 85 paper presentations. There was a Fall P&O Conference Plenary series scheduled from 01st October – 19th November 2021 every Friday. This Plenary series had 16 outstanding author teams who presented their work during a series of seminars News & Research Research Explore journal articles and other research by Peter Cappelli, the Center’s director, faculty and senior fellows associated with the Center. Supporters of the Center get pre-publication access at member-only meetings. See all research Publications Explore books, popular articles by Peter Cappelli, the Center’s director, and faculty and senior fellows associated with the Center. Supporters of the Center get pre-publication access at member-only meetings. See all publications In the News Get free access to analysis of current business trends, interviews with industry leaders and Wharton faculty, book reviews and more.. Access News Articles Collaborations One of the major goals of the Center is to conduct practice-oriented research by creating strategic partnerships between Wharton’s researchers and leading companies from diverse industries and countries. Bridging gaps between academia and industry is key to Wharton’s Center for Human Resources research initiatives. We believe that the fruitful research knowledge gained by academia should be accessible to executive managers in a way they could use it on their daily basis decision-making actions. The Center’s researchers are attentive and thoughtful for the contemporary challenges organizations face in their competitive, uncertain, and dynamic business environment and our research is directly oriented toward helping organizations to tackle these challenges effectively. Recent and ongoing research collaborations with business organizations are conducted in diverse organizational settings and industries such as high-tech, law, retail, service in companies as Indeed, Tata Consultancy Services, Morgan… Upcoming events The Center for Human Resources hosts various conferences and meetings throughout the year, focusing on fostering interaction between academics and practitioners who specialize in HR. These meetings bring together leaders and corporate executives to share current thinking on talent management, labor relations, leadership, retirement, and careers. ALL EVENTS Become a Corporate Member The Center is membership-driven, which means that corporate members support our work and in exchange benefit from active involvement with the Center. This includes participation in member-only meetings and forums that offer insights into emerging trends in human resource management, custom research initiatives, peer surveys, and expert analysis of the impact of legal and policy developments in the HR and labor relations fields. become a member about us The Wharton School University of Pennsylvania 3620 Locust Walk, SH-DH Philadelphia, PA 19104-6301 Center for Human Resources Additional Links Center for Human Resources About us Faculty Ph.D. Students Research Publications In the News Collaborations Upcoming Events Become a Corporate Member Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff Support Wharton©2022 The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Center for Human Resources | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help