Enable JavaScript and refresh the page to view the Center for Hellenic Studies website. See how to enable JavaScript in your browser. The Center for Hellenic Studies About News History The Library Library Visitor Policies Personnel Director Visit Us Contact Programs Fellowships Current Fellows Student Programs Faculty Programs Publications Introduction to Online Publications Books Articles Primary Texts Classics@ Journal Classical Inquiries Research Bulletin Prospective Authors Browse Events Reading Greek Tragedy Online Exhibits Permanent Collection Log in Sign Up Help About News History The Library Personnel Visit Us Contact Us Programs Fellowships Student Programs Faculty Programs Open Greek and Latin Volunteer Program Travel Study Programs Publications Books Articles Primary Texts Serials Classical Inquiries Classics@ Research Bulletin Prospective Authors Initiatives Exhibits Events Kosmos Society The Center for Hellenic Studies Helping educators, researchers, and the general public rediscover the humanism of the ancient Greeks. Live Stream The Danaid Legacy – Aeschylus Reading Greek Tragedy Online Season 4 Episode 3 On Wednesday, May 4th at 3:00pm EDT, Reading Greek Tragedy returns with… Online Event Panos Kouros In this artist talk, Panos Kouros will discuss certain directions in his artistic practice which touch on the experiential and… Spotlight Prometheus Bound – Aeschylus 1 June 2022, 3:00 pm ET On Wednesday June 1 at 3:00pm EST, Reading Greek Tragedy… Live today at 3pm! Latest News Apply Now | Harvard Summer Stay in Washington, DC Programs & Events News 6 May 2022 Meet the 2022-23 Fellows Fellowships News 15 April 2022 Apply Now! Summer Course on Migration and Refugee Studies Programs & Events News 5 January 2022 More News Connect The Center for Hellenic Studies in Greece 🇬🇷 A Harvard International Center that unites the humanistic pursuits of the CHS with the homeland of Hellenism. Learn more Virtual Tour Due to the pandemic, Center public access is currently limited. Tour the main building and the library virtually. Recent Trending Online Event Panos Kouros In this artist talk, Panos Kouros will discuss certain directions in his artistic practice which touch on the experiential and political dimension of archaeology. Read more Live Stream Ion – Euripides On Wednesday, May 18th at 3:00pm EDT, Reading Greek Tragedy returns with Euripides's Ion. Read more In Person Event Night of Ideas 2022 Date: May 6Time: 6:00 pm – 11:00 pm EDTAddress: William James Hall, 33 Kirkland Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 This event will be recorded. Welcome to Boston’s Night of Ideas, an all-night marathon of philosophical discussions, artistic performances, and academic debates! About this event The Cultural Services of the French Consulate in Boston,… Read more Online Event Lucrezia Maniscotti Fascinated by the richness of Greek mythology, especially in connection to the ancient world of theater, Lucrezia found many relatable parallels between Greek and Indian cultures during her Indological academic studies and through the decades of her performing experience. Read more Live Stream The Danaid Legacy – Aeschylus Reading Greek Tragedy Online Season 4 Episode 3 On Wednesday, May 4th at 3:00pm EDT, Reading Greek Tragedy returns with Aeschylus’s Danaid trilogy. In this week’s episode, we take a theatrical deep dive into the story of the Daughters of Danaus and how the legacy of Aeschylus’ Danaid trilogy… Read more Online Event Stories and Archives: A Conversation with Mark Mazower and Ersi Sotiropoulos How do writers present a coherent story without oversimplifying? What are the boundaries between writing history and fiction? Read more Live Stream Antigone Reading Greek Tragedy Online Season 4 Episode 2 On Wednesday April 20th at 3:00pm EDT, Reading Greek Tragedy returns with Sophocles’s Antigone. Directed by Argyris Xafis, with host Joel Christensen, and special guest, Angeliki Tzanetou. Translators: Nikos Panagiotopoulos and Ian Johnston Featured Performers Nikos Hatzopoulos – KreonDimitra Vlagopoulou… Read more Online Event Medical Ethics: From Antiquity to the Current Pandemic What are the main ethical dilemmas faced by the medical profession today? And how do advances in technology affect the ethics of medical care? We will examine these questions with the help of specialists in the field of medicine and bioethics. Read more Online Event Ellen McLaughlin Ellen will speak specifically about the process of working with a fragment of Euripides’ Protesilaus. Read more Online Event The Battle of Plataea 2.5K Taking place 2500 years after the battle of Plataea, this interdisciplinary conference on the battle brings together researchers to examine key problems connected to the battle, its multiple contexts, and its ancient and modern reverberations. Read more ❦ More Curated Articles The Epic Hero Short Writings: I. Table of Contents To refer to this work, please cite it this way: Nagy, G. 2006. “The Epic Hero,” 2nd ed. (on-line version), http://nrs.harvard.edu/urn-3:hlnc.essay:Nagy.The_Epic_Hero.2005. Center for Hellenic Studies, Washington, DC. The 1st ed. (printed version) of “The Epic Hero” appeared in 2005, A Companion to Ancient… Read more Curated Articles A Sampling of Comments on the Iliad and Odyssey Editors: Angelia Hanhardt and Keith DeStone Web producer: Noel Spencer Consultant for images: Jill Curry Robbins Jump to: Iliad Rhapsody 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,… Read more In Person Event Rethinking the Classics: The Works of James Baldwin and the Exhibit Black Classicists A panel discussion with Nefertiti Burton, E. Faye Butler, and Caroline Stark Co-presented by the Shakespeare Theatre Company Monday, March 2, 20206:00pm Doors open6:30-8:00pm Panel discussion8:00-9:00pm Reception and viewing of the exhibit, Black Classics: A Mural Mosaic Directions and Visitor Information This event was part of Amen, Baldwin!: A… Read more Live Stream, Online Event Proximity and Politics Democracy has always been intensely physical. But in an age of social distancing and social media, does it remain important to feel the power of the mass, democratic crowd as an expression of popular will? Join us for a conversation on the importance of physical proximity in democracy, ancient and modern. Read more Online Event Comparatism Seminar Series This one-semester seminar series investigates current research and methodologies in comparatism, a key issue in Classical Studies, both within the ancient Mediterranean and more broadly. Read more Online Event Visiting Artist Presentation: Akis Goumas Part of the CHS Visiting Artist Presentation Series, this presentation features Akis Goumas, a contemporary jewelry maker and researcher of ancient crafting technologies in the Aegean. Read more Online Event Proximity and Ethics What is the relationship between physical closeness and the moral life? Does physical closeness matter for the cultivation of a moral life, and how should we think of empathy as a means of bridging the distance between us and them? Explore these questions and more. Read more PUBLICATIONS Browse Online Publications Additional citation information is provided for items in the Hellenic Studies Series, curated books, curated essays, and primary sources. This page features a full list of our online books, essays, and primary texts. The CHS also produces additional online research publications not listed here: Classics@ Online Journal features… Read more CHS Learning Module Learning Ancient Greek with Professor Leonard Muellner and Belisi Gillespie The following video series provides a guided introduction to the ancient Greek language. The videos are meant to correspond to the textbook Greek: An Intensive Course, 2nd revised edition, by Hardy Hansen and Gerald M. Quinn (New York: Fordham University Press, 1992). The… Read more Donum natalicium Picturing Homeric Weaving back Susan T. Edmunds Introduction §1. In discussion of Homer and the lyric poets, Gregory Nagy has shown how “the idea of making song is expressed metaphorically through the idea of making fabric.” [1] The process of weaving would have been completely familiar to… Read more ❦ More Stay up to date Get the latest updates from the CHS regarding programs, fellowships, and more! Join the community Explore Classical Inquiries Kosmos Society Research Bulletin YouTube Hellenic Studies Series View All Demetrios of Scepsis and His Troikos Diakosmos: Ancient and Modern Readings of… Alexandra Trachsel 1,272 89 Greek Language, Italian Landscape: Griko and the Re-storying of a Linguistic Minority Manuela Pellegrino 1,378 97 In Her Own Words: The Life and Poetry of Aelia Eudocia Brian P. Sowers 677 3 Who Am I? (Mis)Identity and the Polis in Oedipus Tyrannus Efimia D. Karakantza 423 47 Homer’s Thebes: Epic Rivalries and the Appropriation of Mythical Pasts Elton Barker Joel P. Christensen 1,015 92 One Man Show: Poetics and Presence in the Iliad and Odyssey Katherine Kretler 837 73 Agamemnon, the Pathetic Despot: Reading Characterization in Homer Andrew Porter 1,775 67 Homeric Imagery and the Natural Environment William Brockliss 1,790 65 The Cypria Malcolm Davies 1,661 74 Achilles Unbound: Multiformity and Tradition in the Homeric Epics Casey Dué 860 36 The Tears of Achilles Hélène Monsacré 1,072 71 Kinyras: The Divine Lyre John Curtis Franklin 494 84 Featured Programs View All Fellowship Programs The CHS is now accepting applications for the 2022-23 academic year. Student Programs The CHS offers a variety of programs for students in Washington, DC and in Nafplio, including internships, workshops and seminars, and study abroad. Reading Greek Tragedy Online In partnership with Out of Chaos Theatre, the Center for Hellenic Studies and the Kosmos Society are presenting Reading Greek Tragedy Online, a series that brings together actors and researchers to perform and discuss scenes from Greek tragedy. Stay in touch with updates from the Center for Hellenic Studies Keep informed about upcoming fellowships and events at the CHS by signing up for one of our newsletters and joining the community Sign up now About Programs Publications Events Exhibits EU/EEA Privacy Disclosures Cookie Policy