Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation J.M Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies About Us History Former Directors Staff Resources Programs Past Programs 2016- 2021 Wamble Lectures 2004 - 2012 Wamble Lectures Other Lectures J.M Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies Established in 1957, the J. M. Dawson Institute strengthens the study of religion, politics, and society primarily through educational lectures, workshops, symposia, and intercultural conversation. As it endeavors to uphold the distinguished legacy of J. M. Dawson, the Institute is committed to the Baptist principle of the separation of Church and State and to protecting the inviolability of religious liberty for all people, of all faiths and no faith, around the world. Learn More Explore Programs Resources Director J.M. Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies One Bear Place #97284 Waco, TX 76798-7284 (254) 710-3735 JMD@baylor.edu About Us Back History Back Former Directors Staff Resources Programs Back Past Programs Back 2016- 2021 Wamble Lectures 2004 - 2012 Wamble Lectures Other Lectures Back Baptists, Race, and Reconciliation General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678