Skip to main content Social Media Links Skip to main content College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences UCR Home Search Quick Links Find People UC Riverside Center for Integrative Biological Collections COLLEGE OF NATURAL & AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES Search About Our Mission Why Natural History? People Projects Collections Facilities Publications Teaching & Outreach Giving UCR Home Quick Links Find People Center for Integrative Biological Collections Center for Integrative Biological Collections CIBC's mission is to advance research and teaching in biodiversity and to provide support for the management of natural resources by fostering an interdepartmental alliance among UCR's world-class natural history collections. This will be accomplished through integrated and transformative approaches across UCR collections that leverage novel systems in communication, relational databases, datamining, georeferencing, outreach, advocacy and securing enhanced funding. Why Natural History? Natural history collections are a library of biological specimens and their associated data that are used to better understand the world. Traditionally they include preserved material that records, over time and geography, the historical basis for species and ecological diversity. READ MORE The CIBC Collections NEMATOLOGY The UCR Nematode Collection, established in 1956, comprises ~370,000 mounted specimens and thousands of original types. Worldwide, it is among the two or three largest and most important collections to the discipline of nematology. READ MORE CITRUS VARIETY The UCR Citrus Variety Collection, initiated in 1910 for the UC Citrus Experiment Station, is now one of the most extensive living collections of citrus diversity globally, encompassing approximately 4500 trees representing more than 1,000 accessions of citrus and citrus relatives. READ MORE EARTH SCIENCE Earth Sciences Collections curates several worldwide collections including fossils (~100,000 specimens) of invertebrates, vertebrates and plants as well as several thousand minerals and rocks, all essential resources for research, outreach (e.g. displays) and teaching. READ MORE ENTOMOLOGY The UCR Entomology Research Museum is the second oldest UC collection of insects and other arthropods and contains ~3 million curated specimens, making it one of the 10 largest University-based collections in North America. READ MORE HERBARIUM The UCR Herbarium houses over 259,000 specimens of vascular plants and lichens and is the 5th largest herbarium in California (just ahead of San Diego Natural History Museum and right behind UC Davis). It also is linked to UCR's fungus collection (c. 10,000 specimens, housed in Plant Pathology). READ MORE BOTANIC GARDENS The UCR Botanic Gardens includes 40 hilly acres and more than 3500 plants with emphasis on native plants from California, Mexico, and other Mediterranean and desert climates. It is a resource for UCR teaching biology and plant biology, while also serving as a wildlife sanctuary. READ MORE Facilities LATEST PUBLICATIONS October 08, 2020 First described fossil representatives of the parasitoid wasp taxa Asaphesinae n. n. and Eunotinae (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea: Pteromalidae sensu lato) from Eocene Baltic amber Burks, R.A., Heraty, J.M. 2020. First described fossil representatives of the parasitoid wasp taxa Asaphesinae n.n. and Eunotinae (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea: Pteromalidae sensu lato) from Eocene Baltic amber. Journal of Natural History read (PDF) Read More » October 07, 2020 First report of brachiopods with soft parts from the Lower Cambrian Latham Shale First report of brachiopods with soft parts from the Lower Cambrian Latham Shale (Series 2, Stage 4), California Yue Liang, Lars E. Holmer, Yazhou Hu, Zhifei Zhang. Early View. Science Bulletin https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scib.2020.05.001 Nigel Hughes and Lauren English (University of California... Read More » October 07, 2020 Larval morphology and life history of Eutrichosoma mirabile Ashmead and description of a new species of Eutrichosoma (Hymenoptera, Chalcidoidea) Larval morphology and life history of Eutrichosoma mirabile Ashmead and description of a new species of Eutrichosoma (Hymenoptera, Chalcidoidea) Austin Baker and John Heraty 2020 Journal of Hymenoptera Research 75: 67–85. read (PDF) Read More » December 10, 2019 Egg parasitoids of the tea green leafhopper Empoasca onukii Triapitsyn, S. V., T. Adachi-Hagimori, P. F. Rugman-Jones, A. Barry, A. Abe, K. Matsuo & K. Ohno. 2019. Egg parasitoids of the tea green leafhopper Empoasca onukii (Hemiptera, Cicadellidae) in Japan, with description of a new species of Anagrus (Hymenoptera... Read More » More Ongoing Research Collections-based research at UCR ranges from discovery of new species, both past and present, to uncovering their evolutionary relationships, understanding their impact on the environment, and ultimately monitoring changes in both our fauna and flora over time. READ MORE Give to CIBC UC Riverside's comprehensive $300 million campaign focused on Social Innovation and Empowerment GIVE Tweets by cibc_ucr Start your #UCRScience journey today. University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 The CIBC Center 900 University Ave. Director Tel: (951) 827-6351 email: john.heraty@ucr.edu COLLEGE OF NATURAL & AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES CNAS Dean's Office Geology Building, Room 2258 900 University Ave Riverside, CA 92521 Related Links About People Research Teaching & Outreach Contact CNAS Home Give Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Let us help you with your search × Enter your Search Criteria Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel