Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search RSMAS Home Rosenstiel Home Admissions Home Academic Departments About Us CIMAS Overview Affiliated Government Laboratories Annual Reports Partners Personnel For Employees Employment Opportunities Education & Outreach Assistantships Outreach Students Internship Research Themes Tropical weather observations, analysis, and prediction Ocean and climate observations, analysis, and prediction Ecosystem observations, modeling, forecasts, and management Protection and restoration of marine resources Projects North American Multi-Model Ensemble (NMME) Ocean Modeling & OSSE Center (OMOC) Oceanscope Subseasonal Experiment (SubX) News & Events News Recent News Spotlights CIMAS Blog Events Climate Café Series Miami Climate Symposium Seminar Events Contact Us About Us Education & Outreach Research News & Events Contact Us Search About Us CIMAS Overview Affiliated Government Laboratories Annual Reports Partners Personnel For Employees Employment Opportunities Education & Outreach Assistantships Outreach Students Internship Research Themes Tropical weather observations, analysis, and prediction Ocean and climate observations, analysis, and prediction Ecosystem observations, modeling, forecasts, and management Protection and restoration of marine resources Projects North American Multi-Model Ensemble (NMME) Ocean Modeling & OSSE Center (OMOC) Oceanscope Subseasonal Experiment (SubX) News & Events News Recent News Spotlights CIMAS Blog Events Climate Café Series Miami Climate Symposium Seminar Events Contact Us The Cooperative Institute For Marine And Atmospheric Studies Is A NOAA Center Of Excellence To Increase Scientific Understanding Of Earth’s Oceans And Atmosphere. The federally supported institute, located at the University of Miami’s Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, brings together the research and educational resources of ten partner universities to provide research opportunities, educational training and outreach to students and postdoctoral scientists in NOAA-funded research. Research Themes Tropical weather observations, analysis, and prediction Research conducted under this theme will address NOAA’s research and development needs spanning from observations through model improvements. It will result in: Read more Ocean and climate observations, analysis, and prediction Research important for understanding and monitoring the ocean and coastal environment on a range of timescales, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico, Caribbean and Atlantic. Read more Ecosystem observations, modeling, forecasts, and management Research on hurricanes and other tropical weather systems with a focus on the transition from research to operations. Read more Protection and restoration of marine resources Research on hurricanes and other tropical weather systems with a focus on the transition from research to operations. Read more News & Events March 4, 2022 CIMAS Spotlights Heather Moncrief-Cox has been working with CIMAS as a Senior Research Associate II since June 2021. She works within the Biology and Life History Branch at the NOAA Fisheries... Read more December 14, 2021 CIMAS Spotlights Marlos Goes joined CIMAS and the Physical Oceanography department at AOML in 2010, first as an Assistant Scientist, and in 2020 as an Associate Scientist. His main duties are... Read more October 29, 2021 News, University of Miami Meteorologist and professor of atmospheric sciences Ben Kirtman explains how these ribbons of water vapor in the sky affect the climate of California and the Pacific Northwest. Published in NEWS@TheU on October 28, 2021, by Janette Neuwahl Tannen. Read more October 25, 2021 Events, Seminar Events CIMAS seminar on Thursday, October 28, 2021, 10AM (EDT): Magdalena Andres (WHOI) presents “PEACH PIESs: Gulf Stream variability inferred from pressure-sensor equipped inverted echo sounders (PIESs) as part of the Processes driving Exchange at Cape Hatteras (PEACH) project” Read more October 17, 2021 News, CIMAS International Sawfish Day is an annual event that is held every October 17th. Research involving sawfish is conducted by Andrea Kroetz, Assistant Scientist at CIMAS, and her story was first featured in NOAA's Faces of the Southeast Fisheries Science Center series on October 13, 2021... Read more October 13, 2021 News, CIMAS Blog A Week 4 update from the 4th Gulf of Mexico Ecosystems and Carbon Cruise, GOMECC-4, aboard the NOAA Ship Ronald H. Brown, in Gulf of Mexico. By GOMECC-4 chief scientists Dr. Leticia Barbero and Dr. Andy Stefanick... Read more October 12, 2021 CIMAS Blog Discovering the Life of a Hawksbill Turtle From a Single Bone - by Jamie Clark, Fisheries Biologist with CIMAS and the Southeast Fisheries Science Center... Read more October 11, 2021 Events, The Climate Café Series Interpreting the Past to Forecast the Future. Join us for our next Climate Café #4 on Wednesday, October 13, 2021, at 11:30 EDT, presented by faculty from the Departments of Marine Geosciences and Atmospheric Sciences... (A link to the recording will be posted when available) U MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 The Cooperative Institute For Marine And Atmospheric Studies 4600 Rickenbacker Causeway, Miami, Florida 33149 Telephone: (305) 421-4159 Telephone: (305) 421-4159 Resources Give to Rosenstiel School About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Rosenstiel School Campus Map UM Campus Map Parking & Transportation Shuttle Schedule Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-linkedin Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices