ABOUT SERVICES PROJECTS CONTACT Search Transforming complex needs into simple solutions We help agencies solve modern information and training challenges LEARN MORE Transforming complex needs into simple solutions We help agencies solve modern information and training challenges LEARN MORE Center for Information Management and Educational Services FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY Center for Information Management and Educational Services FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY Statewide. Nationwide. Award Winning. Our talented team integrates research and expertise to create powerful solutions for each client. What We Do Information and Knowledge Management Develop strategies to address your information management challenges Web and Mobile Applications Design customized systems and mobile apps with optimal flexibility, from concept to implementation and support Learning Experience Design Produce effective instructional media using the design-thinking approach Creative & Interactive Media Production Create interactive media solutions that communicate your message effectively Spotlight CIMES Sponsors International Forum on Expert Finder Systems CIMES is the organizing sponsor and host of the International Forum on Expert Finder Systems. The EFS Forum brings together builders and users of expert finder systems with decision makers to talk about research and trends in EFS and prospects for building a community of practice for EFS professionals. LEARN MORE SEE MORE SPOTLIGHTS Training Guides Patrol Officers in Trauma-Informed Approach This short, high-impact module uses video interviews and a practice scenario to deliver its core message about the effects of trauma and encourage law enforcement officers to adopt trauma-informed approaches when working with sexual assault survivors. LEARN MORE SEE MORE SPOTLIGHTS Animated Videos Help Educators Apply for Certification CIMES developed how-to videos for individuals applying for initial educator certification or for certificate renewal or subject addition. These whiteboard animation videos are highly accessible and target "sticking points" in the application process. They are viewed by thousands of educators each year. LEARN MORE SEE MORE SPOTLIGHTS Attracting Florida Students to Graduate Programs CIMES created a web portal where Florida's public universities can recruit prospective graduate students from institutions around the state. The Graduate Candidate Identification System enables junior- and senior-level undergraduates at Florida's public universities to submit an interest form and invite potential contact from graduate programs, fellowships, summer research programs, and other Florida-based higher education opportunities. LEARN MORE SEE MORE SPOTLIGHTS Portal Helps University Serve English Language Learners The Language and Culture Center at the University of Houston provides an immersive English language program for international students. CIMES developed a centralized business management system that addresses all of the center’s complex application, registration, evaluation, grading, billing, and related processes—leading to an improved user experience for applicants, students, faculty, and staff. LEARN MORE SEE MORE SPOTLIGHTS Web-Based Format Is New for Sexual Assault Examiner Course The Florida Council Against Sexual Violence offers a 40-hour face-to-face training for those seeking to work as sexual assault nurse examiners (SANEs). However, that format is a barrier for many nurses. So, CIMES is working with FCASV to develop a blended program with 24 hours of web-based training and 16 hours of face-to-face training. The goal is to help ensure that every sexual assault survivor in Florida has access to a medical forensic exam by a SANE-trained provider. LEARN MORE SEE MORE SPOTLIGHTS App Is New Tool for Tobacco Control Program The California Tobacco Control Program has more than a dozen information systems that support business and program processes, so quickly finding the right piece of information can be challenging. CIMES is developing a mobile app that will push high-priority, timely information for all program and business operations to users via phone, tablet, and desktop. LEARN MORE SEE MORE SPOTLIGHTS Previous Next Projects Rover Library Systems Radon Certification Training Florida ExpertNet Film School Portal Rover Library Systems California Department of Public Health - California Tobacco Control Program The California Department of Public Health, Tobacco Control Program funds a library and clearinghouse as part of their mission to reduce tobacco use in California. CIMES developed Rover, an integrated, web-based library portal designed to provide all the tools necessary for effective management and access to information and resources organized and published by the Tobacco Control Section Library and the Tobacco Education Clearinghouse of California. Rover is a robust and integrated information system and content management system that allows the staff to manage every facet of their content. Rover incorporates tools for managing the materials catalog, circulation, patrons, reference, distribution channels, search and data sets, as well as the library website. LEARN MORE x Radon Certification Training Florida Department of Health - Bureau of Environmental Health The Bureau of Environmental Health Radon Program within the Florida Department of Health needed updated course materials for the Florida Radon Certification Program. CIMES provided 150 illustrations and diagrams, a reformatted program course manual, and 9 training modules converted into HTML5. LEARN MORE x Florida ExpertNet State University System of Florida Board of Governors The private and public sectors in Florida needed a centralized portal of research faculty in Florida’s universities to assist in identifying expertise to solve problems and create collaborative opportunities. Florida ExpertNet, a portal of applied research expertise all across Florida's research universities, was the solution. The web-based system employs a knowledge management system and content management system, along with a research taxonomy to manage content. Web crawlers and import tools collect data from the university partners across the state. LEARN MORE x Film School Portal Florida State University - College of Motion Picture Arts The Motion web portal was created for the FSU College of Motion Picture Arts as a program management system. The application is role-based, integrated, scalable, and supports managing people, assessments, courses, and projects. The application also provides interfaces to collect, manage, track, and report project and assessment information. LEARN MORE x Recall Audit Checks: FDA Form 3177 Training Sample Collection Training for Food Inspectors Infection Control Training myCIES Web Portal Recall Audit Checks: FDA Form 3177 Training Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services - Division of Food Safety The Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services conducts recall audit checks in collaboration with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to ensure that food and product recalls have been appropriately carried out. The results of these checks are reported on FDA Form 3177. However, because inspectors are seldom required to conduct recall audit checks or use this form, up-front training related to this task is not reinforced by experience and thus may not be retained by the inspectors. CIMES developed award winning just-in-time web-based training. The scenario-based training uses an approach that helps learners grasp concepts quickly and effectively. The module is being used nationally. LEARN MORE x Sample Collection Training for Food Inspectors Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services - Division of Agricultural Environmental Services The Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services oversees food sampling throughout Florida for adulteration and misbranding. Existing training was delivered face-to-face, once a year. CIMES developed a web-based training solution that standardizes food sampling procedures for all employees across the state and can be accessed at any time, without the need for a formal training meeting. The training serves as an orientation for new hires and a refresher for current food inspectors. LEARN MORE x Infection Control Training Florida Department of Health - Bureau of Infection Control The Bureau of Epidemiology, Florida Department of Health needed training on best practices for nursing staff members, including both registered nurses and nursing assistants, in three types of settings: acute care hospitals, ambulatory care facilities, and nursing homes. CIMES developed web-based training that included an overview of infection control with a focus on hand hygiene, isolation precautions, personal protective equipment, and immunizations. The overview was followed by audience-specific training for nurses and nursing assistants in the three care environments. LEARN MORE x myCIES Web Portal Florida State University - Center for Intensive English Studies The Center for Intensive English Studies at Florida State University needed a centralized business management system to encompass all the needs of the center, which to a large degree were different from those of the university as a whole. CIMES created a portal and content management system that encompassed student application and registration, course and session creation, faculty assignments, recording of grades and attendance, billing, and reporting. LEARN MORE x Let us transform your need into a customized solution. Contact Us. 2035 E Paul Dirac Dr 210A Sliger Bldg Tallahassee, FL 32306-2802 (850) 645-0830 Get directions Home About Services Projects Back to Top Florida State University, Institute of Science and Public Affairs ©2022 Center for Information Management and Educational Services Privacy Policy | CIMES Bylaws | Admin Search Form Search the site using this form.