Coronavirus Updates: USC | SCA About SCA Alumni Development Council Board of Councilors Diversity & Inclusion Contact Copyright at SCA Corporate Partners History Make a Gift Directories Faculty Directory Staff Directory News & Events News Events Announcements USC University of Southern California USC Cinematic Arts Search Menu Programs John C. Hench Division of Animation + Digital Arts Division of Cinema & Media Studies Film & Television Production Interactive Media & Games Media Arts + Practice Peter Stark Producing Program John Wells Division of Writing for Screen & Television The John H. Mitchell Business of Cinematic Arts Program Summer Program Minors Non-Major Special Programs Faculty Overview Directory Council Endowed Chairs Facilities Overview Labs & Classrooms Libraries & Archives Post Production Production Screening Rooms Stages Admissions Overview Student Stories Why Choose SCA How to Apply Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Graduate Housing Request Information Attend an Admissions Event Admitted Students Students & Parents Student Affairs Dean's List Wellness And Involvement Festival & Showcases Industry Relations Office Commencement Computing Requirements Alumni SCA Alumni SCA Network SCA Community SCA Community Connections Notable Alumni Bi-Monthly Hotsheet In Motion Contact Us Donate Online First Jobs Research Research Overview Research Initiatives Research Labs American Film Showcase Media Institute for Social Change Close Bridging The Spectrum USC Cinematic Arts crosses the spectrum of media creation from film and television to games and interactive experiences, giving students the skills and vision to become tomorrow's creative leaders. Explore Programs Programs List Summer Program The John H. Mitchell Business of Cinematic Arts Program John Wells Division of Writing for Screen & Television Peter Stark Producing Program Media Arts + Practice Interactive Media & Games Film & Television Production Division of Cinema & Media Studies John C. Hench Division of Animation + Digital Arts John C. Hench Division of Animation + Digital Arts Division of Cinema & Media Studies Film & Television Production Interactive Media & Games Media Arts + Practice Peter Stark Producing Program John Wells Division of Writing for Screen & Television The John H. Mitchell Business of Cinematic Arts Program Summer Program Summer Program Summer Program classes are taught by leading industry professionals during two separate six-week sessions. Spend time on our state of-the-art campus taking classes focused on feature filmmaking, editing, animation, writing, computer graphics, interactive game design, and the business of the industry, among many others. More InformationHow to Apply The John H. Mitchell Business of Cinematic Arts Program USC Marshall offers students the unique opportunity to complete coursework in both the School of Cinematic Arts and the Marshall School of Business. Upon successful completion of all requirements of the 4 year program, students receive a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with an emphasis in Cinematic Arts. Graduates of this joint program are well-equipped to apply their skills to both business and cinema professions. The program is available to entering or first semester Marshall Freshmen Only. More InformationHow to Apply John Wells Division of Writing for Screen & Television It all begins with a script. Before any film, television show, web series, or video game can become a phenomenon, the project need words on a page. The John Wells Division of Writing for Screen & Television teaches students how to create the kinds of scripts that excite directors, producers, agents, and managers. More InformationHow to Apply Producing Program The Peter Stark Producing Program exposes students to the full spectrum of the entertainment business and creative development, covering every step of the process-from nurturing and developing an idea to outlining an international distribution and marketing campaign. More InformationHow to Apply Media Arts + Practice In today's global culture of multiple screens and diverse forms of media, every industry needs innovators who are able to create, develop and manage digital media in ways that engage and inspire people and constituencies. Media Arts + Practice (MAP) teaches the art and technologies of digital design, cinematic media, and storytelling. MA+P students are both makers and scholars of innovative digital media. More InformationHow to Apply Interactive Media & Game Design Playful and interactive experiences make up the fastest growing segment of the entertainment industry. The Interactive Media & Games Division has been a pioneer in teaching the foundations of games and interactive media as well as moving the field forward with innovative research concepts. Students explore the full potential of game design and interactive experiences. More InformationHow to Apply Film & Television Production Everywhere you look these days there are screens that need content. The Film & Television Production Division teaches students how to make compelling, in-demand content for screens of every size-whether it's IMAX or a hand-held device. More InformationHow to Apply Cinema & Media Studies The Division of Cinema & Media Studies provides the kind of in-depth knowledge of media and entertainment that serves as a foundation for jobs across the industry and in the classrooms as renowned media scholars. More InformationHow to Apply Animation + Digital Arts The John C. Hench Division of Animation + Digital Arts teaches every aspect of art in motion and prepares its students for careers ranging from traditional cartoon animation to cutting edge visual effects, and as experimental artists. More InformationHow to Apply SCA Application Procedures Register for an Admissions Event Apply for SCA Summer Program Our interdisciplinary approach enables students, regardless of their chosen area of specialization, to take courses across our seven disciplines, without boundaries, in order to train fully-formed media makers, collaborators, and scholars situated to flourish in their chosen career path. Learn more about education at the School of Cinematic Arts SCA Overview Vid Close Vid Close The School of Cinematic Arts is divided into seven divisions that work together to train the leaders, scholars and media makers of tomorrow. Alumni Project: Journey “Innovation is about mechanics and technology, but it's more than that. It's about creating an emotional reaction and connection with your audience.” Jenova Chen, ’06 MFA Future Facing The School of Cinematic Arts has a long history and reputation for being on the forefront of technological advances in entertainment and beyond. Vid Close Vid Close Events March 16, 2020 - June 30, 2022 Virtual SCA Graduate Information Session Varies Online - Access Information Sent Via Email June 8, 2022 THE BLACK PHONE: Special SCA Network Advance Screening and Q+A with Alumnus and Writer/Director/Producer Scott Derrickson '95 7:00 P.M. PST The Frank Sinatra Hall at the Eileen Norris Cinema Theatre Complex, 3507 Trousdale Parkway, Los Angeles, CA 90007 July 6, 2022 LOVE AFTER LOVE 7:00 P.M. The Ray Stark Family Theatre, SCA 108, George Lucas Building, USC School of Cinematic Arts Complex, 900 W. 34th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90007 SCA News May 26, 2022 2022 USC Games Expo USC Games, North America’s No. 1 Game Design Program for eleven years acco... May 13, 2022 Matt Reeves and Prentice Penny Highlight USC School of Cinematic Arts Graduation The ceremony returns to the Shrine Auditorium for the first time since the p... SCA Twitter Tweets by USCCinema USC Cinematic Arts Visit Us Get in Touch Sign Up 900 West 34th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90089-2211 Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter View our Youtube Channel Contact Us Notice of Non-Discrimination Privacy Policy © 2016 University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts