Skip to main content UTexas Home IT@UT Menu UTexas Home The University of Texas at Austin IT@UT Services Expand Contract Services & Consulting Email, Calendar & Collaboration ID, Accounts & Access Network, Media & Telecommunications Security Servers, Storage & Data Software & Applications Teaching, Classroom Technology & Labs Tech Support Web Publishing & Software Development Security Expand Students Expand Faculty & Staff Expand Guidance for Flexible Work Tools IT Staff Expand Projects Expand Metrics Expand Campus IT Policies Expand Search Search Home Web Accessibility Policy Web Accessibility Policy July, 2013 Campus IT Policies Last Reviewed: September 14, 2012 Last Edited: March 11, 2021 1. Purpose All Web applications and sites at The University of Texas at Austin must meet the statutory requirements in Texas Administrative Code 206.70 Accessibility Standards (TAC 206.70), which references the U.S. Section 508 standards. These statutes require all Web applications and sites to comply with the TAC 206.70 standards. TAC 206.70 establishes only a minimum standard for accessibility; developers are encouraged to go beyond this minimum whenever possible. 2. Required Link Each Web application or site must contain a link for "Web Accessibility Policy" that links to this policy. 3. Accessibility Coordinator The university has designated the following individual as Accessibility Coordinator: Jennifer W. Maedgen, Senior Associate Vice President and ADAAA, Section 504, and EIR Coordinator The role of the Accessibility Coordinator is to monitor the university's compliance with accessibility policies and to facilitate training of Web publishers and developers to ensure all Web applications and sites are accessible. The university's Accessibility Coordinator may grant written requests for exceptions to accessibility policies under appropriate circumstances. To contact the Accessibility Coordinator, send email to ada@austin.utexas.edu. Get Help Information and guidance on technology resources available to support current working and teaching conditions: Instructional Continuity FAQ & Resources Guidance for Flexible Work Tools More Coronavirus Resources for Employees Service Desk ITS Service Desk provides IT support services related to EID, DUO, Office 365, email, Qualtrics, Box, and other central IT services. Call us at 512-475-9400 | help@utexas.edu Submit a help request online In-Person Services located at the FAC first floor Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm ID Card Services The ID Center provides ID cards for students, faculty, staff, official visitors and university affiliates as required. The ID Center also upgrades UT EIDs for eligible individuals to allow full access to online services. Call us at 512-475-9400 | ID_Center@utlists.utexas.edu Submit a help request online In-Person Services located at the FAC first floor Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm IT@UT Contact Us Information Technology Services UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022