Skip to main content Yale University Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyCIPE Who We Are Mission Getting the Most From Your Experience Reports, Statistics, and Outcomes What We Do Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session Visiting International Students Travel Resources Travel Policy International Toolkit Register Your Independent Activity Diversity Abroad For Families Contact Staff Directory Calendar CIPE Weekly Digest Email CIPE Make an Appointment Enter your keywords Last updated: 09/10/2020 - 8:09pm Thoughtful engagement with the world beyond Yale The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. CIPE's Mission Getting the Most From Your Experience What we offer and what we expect from you In order to help Yale students to get the most out of CIPE's resources and opportunities, we have outlined our expectations. We hope that our shared commitment will lead to more successful learning outcomes for all students. Learn More CIPE Weekly Digest Stay up-to-date The CIPE offers a robust range of events, resources, and advising. Make sure to read our weekly digest so you don't miss any of our offerings from Career Strategy, Fellowships, Study Abroad, and Yale Summer Session. Learn More Travel Resources Before you go Students should review the information in this section before traveling and ensure that they are aware of Yale University's policies regarding U.S.-based and international travel. Learn More The Ongoing COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Situation Starting with summer 2021, sponsored outbound international travel for Yale College students will be governed by the Yale College Travel Policy. Further restrictions may be imposed at any time if public health conditions require them. Proof of vaccination does not override Yale's Travel Policy, and note that it is the responsibility of the traveler to investigate and keep updated on country-specific requirements and/or restrictions that may hinder or make impossible travel to that location regardless of Yale's Travel Policy. Yale has provided Travel Guidelines for all faculty, staff, and students. Continuously updated COVID-19 information also can be found on Yale's COVID-19 website. Travel Policy Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-0800 Facebook Instagram Twitter | CIPE Contact MyCIPE Main Navigation Who We Are What We Do Travel Resources For Families Contact Contact CIPE Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsCareer StrategyFunding and FellowshipsStudy AbroadYale Summer SessionVisiting International Student ProgramInternational Study AwardWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy CIPE Staff Portal | Log in