Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home CIPR SCLAS CCSI About About CIPR Mission Research RGM Commitment to Equity REPAL Supported Research People News Events Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... THE STONE CENTER The Center for Inter-American Policy and Research Focusing on policy issues important to Latin America and Inter-American relations The Center for Inter-American Policy and Research (CIPR) is devoted to inter-hemispheric exchanges that will advance the production and dissemination of knowledge about critical policy issues facing the Americas as well as the deepening of academic research in these areas. Its aim is to stimulate contact between scholars and decision-makers working on the region at different locations and in different languages, enriching their production by enabling the confluence of multiple perspectives. Stone Center Spring Awards Ceremony 2022 Tulane Honors 2020 Graduates with Commencement and Crawfest Latin American Studies Association Congress 2022: Polarización socioambiental y rivalidad entre grandes potencias View More News View News Archives Upcoming Events View CIPR Calendar Latin American Studies at Tulane Our People Caitlin Andrews-Lee Former CIPR Post-Doctoral Fellow Caitlin Andrews-Lee is a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Inter-American Policy and Research (CIPR) at Tulane University. She received her Ph.D. in Government from the University of Texas at Austin in 2019. Her research focuses on political behavior, party systems, and democracy, with a... Read More David De Micheli Former CIPR Post-Doctoral Fellow David De Micheli is a postdoctoral fellow with the Center for Inter-American Policy and Research at Tulane University. He received his PhD from the Department of Government at Cornell University in 2019. His research interests include comparative politics, ethnic and identity politics,... Read More Gonzalo Gómez Bengoechea Former Visiting CIPR Research Fellow Gonzalo Gómez Bengoechea is a professor of Economics at Comillas – ICADE Univestity, in Madrid. During his stay at the Center for Interamerican Policy and Research he will be working on fiscal incidence and inequality. His previous research has been focused on the Eurozone crisis and on the... Read More Maria Akchurin Former CIPR Post-Doctoral Fellow (2017-2019) After CIPR, Maria Akchurin accepted a position as Assistant Professor of Sociology at Loyola University in Chicago, starting in fall 2019. At Loyola, she will continue her research on water politics, as well as teaching courses on environmental and urban sociology. She continues to work with... Read More View All People Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - CIPR Left Column CIPR 7025 Freret Street Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 Phone: 504-862-3141 Email: cipr@tulane.edu Maps & Directions About Programs Educational Resources Grants & Funding Latin American Studies Graduate Student Organization Get Email Updates News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University