Skip to content Departments Computer Science Information Science Statistics and Data Science Social Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Students Students Cornell Bowers CIS is a community of people committed to tackling some of the world's biggest challenges by working together across disciplines, colleges and campuses. Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate Opportunities Clubs & Organizations Employment Outlook Career Resources Diversity Corporate Partners Corporate Partners Corporate partners are an important part of the Cornell Bowers CIS community. Explore ways to add value to your company by engaging with the college community. Recruiting Ways to Engage The College About the college Cornell Bowers CIS is home to the three academic departments that power the information economy: Computer Science, Information Science and Statistics and Data Science Meet Dean Bala Leadership College History Departments Ann S. Bowers '59 About the college Dean Kavita Bala Kavita Bala, computer scientist, entrepreneur, and professor, was named dean of the Faculty for Computing and Information Science in 2020, and is the... Leadership From world-class faculty to experienced staff, the strength of Cornell Bowers CIS is in the connections and collaborations we create with our students, our... Cornell Bowers CIS History Cornell created Computing and Information Science (CIS) so that any student, scholar, or scientist could bring to bear on any subject, the ideas and... Departments Cornell Bowers CIS is home to the three academic disciplines that power the information economy. ANN S. BOWERS ’59 ... close Links Home Contact Get Our Newsletter Staff Resources Departments Computer Science Information Science Statistics and Data Science Social Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. ©2022 Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science, Cornell University