Skip to content Departments Computer Science Information Science Statistics and Data Science Social Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Students Students Cornell Bowers CIS is a community of people committed to tackling some of the world's biggest challenges by working together across disciplines, colleges and campuses. Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate Opportunities Clubs & Organizations Employment Outlook Career Resources Diversity Corporate Partners Corporate Partners Corporate partners are an important part of the Cornell Bowers CIS community. Explore ways to add value to your company by engaging with the college community. Recruiting Ways to Engage The College About the college Cornell Bowers CIS is home to the three academic departments that power the information economy: Computer Science, Information Science and Statistics and Data Science Meet Dean Bala Leadership College History Departments Ann S. Bowers '59 Undergraduate Opportunities Interested in computing and its impact on society? Cornell Bowers CIS offers multiple, flexible paths to a degree that will prepare you for a leadership role in the data-driven information economy. What is the CIS model (video)? The Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science offer majors in the colleges of Engineering, Arts and Sciences and Agriculture and Life Sciences. Students wishing to major in Computer Science, Information Science or Statistics must first apply and be accepted to one of these three colleges. In addition, students in all seven of Cornell's undergraduate schools and colleges have the option of completing a Minor/Concentration in Computer Science or a Minor in Information Science. Minors are also available in Computing in the Arts and Game Design. Explore the many options for how you can engage as an undergraduate. B.A. in Computer Science from the College of Arts and Sciences B.S. in Computer Science from the College of Engineering The computer science curriculum covers both the theory of algorithms and computing and their many applications in science, engineering, and business. The program is broad and rigorous, but it is structured in a way that supports in-depth study of outside areas. Computer Science majors learn about algorithms, data structures, programming languages, operating systems, and the theory of computation, and can explore many different areas of interest, including artificial intelligence, scientific computing, computational biology, computer graphics, computer vision, databases, and networks. A wide variety of exciting professional and academic opportunities exist for graduates, including software engineering, computational finance, modeling, game design, computer graphics, robotics, artificial intelligence, internet systems and technology, security, hardware development, animation, medicine, biotechnology, business management and consulting, as well as masters and doctoral studies in computing-related fields. While major requirements for the B.A. and B.S. are the same, the sponsoring colleges may have different supplemental requirements. Please visit the College of Arts and Sciences or the College of Engineering for more information. Learn more: Visit cs.cornell.edu/undergrad Computer Science Engineering Student Profile (video) B.S. in Information Science, Systems and Technology from the College of Engineering The major in Information Science, Systems, and Technology (ISST) studies the design and management of complex information systems. The core courses in the field provide students with grounding in operations research modeling techniques of probability, statistics, and optimization; computer science; economics; and the social and organizational contexts in which transformative information systems exist. Students then choose one of two options: Management Science (MS) or Information Science (IS). Learn more: Visit infosci.cornell.edu/undergraduate For more information about the major, please contact Information Science by phone, 607.255.9837, email, or visit the undergraduate program office located in 110H Gates Hall. B.S. in Information Science from the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences The BS in Information Science (IS) allows students to study the design and use of information systems in a social context. The field studies the creation, representation, organization, application, and analysis of information in digital form. The focus of Information Science is on technological systems and their use, approached through an interdisciplinary approach with a variety of methodologies. The Information Science major organizes its courses into three area-based tracks: human-centered systems, information systems and social systems. Learn more: Visit infosci.cornell.edu/undergraduate For more information about the major, please contact Information Science by phone, 607.255.9837, email, or visit the undergraduate program office located in 110H Gates Hall. B.A. in Information Science from the College of Arts and Sciences The BA in Information Science (IS) allows students to study the design and use of information systems in a social context. The field studies the creation, representation, organization, application, and analysis of information in digital form. The focus of Information Science is on technological systems and their use, approached through an interdisciplinary approach with a variety of methodologies. The Information Science major organizes its courses into three area-based tracks: human-centered systems, information systems and social systems. Learn more: Visit infosci.cornell.edu/undergraduate For more information about the major, please contact Information Science by phone, 607.255.9837, email, or visit the undergraduate program office located in 110H Gates Hall. B.A. in Statistical Science from the College of Arts and Sciences The Statistical Science major provides an interdisciplinary academic program in the study of empirical quantitative reasoning in its scientific and social context. The major integrates the study of the three major themes in Statistical Science:mathematical statistics, applied statistics and computational statistics. The Statistical Science major has been designed to ensure that students have a firm grounding in both the major area as well as substantial depth in a particular applied area. In addition, it has been designed to support and encourage double majors through the requirement of an external specialization. Learn more: Visit stat.cornell.edu close Links Home Contact Get Our Newsletter Staff Resources Departments Computer Science Information Science Statistics and Data Science Social Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. ©2022 Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science, Cornell University