Cornell University Search CCSS-RS Cornell Center for Social Sciences Research Support Primary Menu Skip to content About About Us Services Computing Consulting Data Research R Squared Workshops Help Center About About Us Services Computing Consulting Data Research R Squared Workshops Help Center CCSS Research Support (CCSS-RS) CCSS-RS This site has moved See our new website at CCSS! READ MORE This site has moved See our new website at CCSS! READ MORE This site has moved See our new website at CCSS! READ MORE This site has moved See our new website at CCSS! READ MORE Previous Next CCSS-RS Core Services Data Services Assistance/training with finding, understanding, working with and depositing all aspects of data. Data and compute services specific to work with restricted access data sets. Workshops Instruction on using software such as Atlas.ti, Python, R, SAS, SPSS and Stata. Also tools and processes for working with data, and how to make research reproducible. Consulting Assistance with data access, use, and analysis, security and data management plans and related research and learning needs. Range of expertise for training and consulting across our Core Service areas. Compute Infrastructure Local and cloud computing for research accounts, scalable and customizable across a range of secure environments, with a range of quantitative and qualitative software resources. CCSS Research Support is... Learn More ➞ a Cornell support unit that provides a full continuum of data and compute-related services to assist the social science research and education community, with focused and multidisciplinary research and learning endeavors. There is a range of support within each of our four core service areas of Data Services, Instructional Workshops, Consulting, and Compute Infrastructure. These services are provided through our extensive consulting team. This website is currently in transition as content is gradually moved to the Research Support area of the main CCSS website. For questions, please contact the CCSS-RS HelpDesk. For news and announcements, please see @CornellCCSS Twitter. CCSS Research Support Contact CCSS-RS email: *protected email* help desk: 607-255-1986 administration: 607-255-4801 fax: 607-255-9353 Services Research Quick Links Workshops Website Accessibility Copyright © 2022 CCSS Research Support