Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Civic Engagement Home About Staff Contact Us Service Organizations Alternative Service Breaks (ASB) First-year Servant Leadership Organization (FSLO) Jumpstart MOVE TEAM Buzz Service Organizations at GT Signature Events Small Act, Big Impact | First Year Day of Service "Into the Streets" Day of Service MLK Day of Service 2022 MOVEments Live: Hosting Conversations that Matter MLK, Jr. "Sunday Supper": A Community Meal and Conversation Service At GT MOVEments Podcast Resources SDGs at Georgia Tech Service Funding Class of 1981 Funding Presentation + Workshop Request Request Form Visit Engage Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Page Welcome to Civic Engagement! Our staff are a part Center for Student Engagement at Georgia Tech. Student Engagement empowers and supports registered student organizations to catalyze belonging and create an engaging campus community. The Center has a strong history of developing and working closely with Georgia Tech’s outstanding student leaders. The staff that make-up the Center for Student Engagement are here to provide service and support. The Center for Student Engagement is available to advise and support student organizations’ needs and the general function of the Institute. Georgia Tech remains open with modified operations, you can easily connect with us at engage@gatech.edu and expect a response within 24 hours. Our regular office hours 8am-5pm, Monday-Friday. For access to specific staff, we request that students make an appointment. What We Do: Civic Engagement at Georgia Tech manifests in many forms across the Institute. Broadly defined, civic engagement encompasses the numerous ways in which students, faculty and staff promote positive social change. Opportunities to engage with community partners exist in co-curricular settings, academic based community service courses, and departmental sponsored outreach programs. As a department of the Division of Student Life, Civic Engagement applies a student centered approach for students to develop and clarify identity, to understand others, and to promote social change.Whether you are a student, faculty/staff, or community partner, Civic Engagement is ready to support your engagement with community service at Georgia Tech. Service Projects A wide range of opportunities exist for Georgia Tech students, faculty, and staff to engage in local and international service opportunities. More Information Partner With Us Community partners can easily request volunteers using our application form through OrgSync. We only need a few details to get you connected with volunteers from Georgia Tech. Connect With Us Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login