Skip to content HARVARD.EDU About Overview What We Do From our Director Publications Contact People Our People Faculty Leadership Academic Visitors Staff Fellowships & Prizes Overview For Harvard Students For Scholars from outside Harvard Academics Overview Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Academic Activities & Resources Languages Courses News & Events Overview News Events Giving Overview Become a Friend of CJS How To Give Search Toggle search interface Menu Toggle extended navigation What We Do The Center for Jewish Studies serves as an umbrella organization, encompassing and coordinating the many academic and extra-curricular programs in Jewish Studies at Harvard University. Learn More about the Center Message from the Director Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Explore Academics Fellowship Opportunities The Center for Jewish Studies supports a number of fellowships and prizes for qualified undergraduate and graduate Harvard students, as well as an exchange program for graduate students in Jewish studies with The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. We are also pleased to support and host research scholars, Visiting Professors and Lecturers in Jewish studies from outside Harvard. More About Fellowships & Prizes Recent News CJS announces recipients of 2022 Selma and Lewis Weinstein Prize in Jewish StudiesJune 1, 2022 The Center for Jewish Studies at Harvard University is pleased to announce the recipients of the 2022 Selma and Lewis Weinstein Prize in Jewish Studies. Shoshana F. Boardman ’22, a senior in Winthrop House, was awarded… Welcome to our 2022-2023 FellowsMay 13, 2022 Please join us in welcoming our 2022-2023 Fellows. The Starr Fellows are recent Ph.D. recipients working on topics in Jewish Studies and the Arts, including History of Art and Architecture, Visual Studies and Visuality, History of Music,… End of Year Reception for our 2021-2022 FellowsMay 13, 2022 On May 11, the CJS held a reception to celebrate the 2021-2022 academic year’s Starr and Silver Fellows, visiting research scholars and professors. We wish all of you a wonderful summer and great success in your… All News Upcoming Events Mar 28 Annual Doft Lecture: Tony Kushner in Conversation with Stephen Greenblatt On March 28, 2023 at 5:30 pm Apr 20 Antiochus III’s Edict(s) to Jerusalem: Between Imperial Stress and Local Agency | A Symposium On April 20, 2023 and April 21, 2023 Apr 21 Antiochus III’s Edict(s) to Jerusalem: Between Imperial Stress and Local Agency | A Symposium On April 20, 2023 and April 21, 2023 All Upcoming Events Giving to the CJS The Center for Jewish Studies is very grateful to our donors for their generosity in supporting our endeavors. Those pursuing Jewish studies at Harvard University may benefit from a number of endowment and current use funds established over the years. New funds are formed continuously to support students and scholars in their pursuit for greater knowledge and achievement in this field. These may also support publications, events, other activities and administration at the Center for Jewish Studies. Find out More about Giving Our Newsletter Our office proudly presents Annual or Biannual Newsletters with comprehensive accounts of current work done at the CJS. Join our mailing list Read the latest issues Harvard Center for Jewish Studies 6 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 495-4326 cjs@fas.harvard.edu About People Fellowships & Prizes Academics News & Events Giving Photo Credits Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement Log In close menu About Overview What We Do From our Director Publications Contact People Our People Faculty Leadership Academic Visitors Staff Fellowships & Prizes Overview For Harvard Students For Scholars from outside Harvard Academics Overview Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Academic Activities & Resources Languages Courses News & Events Overview News Events Giving Overview Become a Friend of CJS How To Give close search Search Search Site