Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation About Academics Undergraduate Program Major in Portuguese Graduate Program Graduate Fellows Network Programs Program on Cuba History & Culture of Cuba 2019 Class Trip History and Culture of Cuba 2020 Class Trip Program on South American Studies Focus on Argentina Conference: Perspectives on Poverty & Human Development Focus on Brazil Brazil Activities Fair 2018 Brazil Activities Fair 2020 Brazilian & U.S. Initiatives People Undergraduate Fellows Network Graduate Fellows Network Faculty Visiting Scholars Past Visiting Scholars Alumni Staff Faculty Research Faculty Research Profiles Faculty Research Map Research during the Pandemic Grants Student Grants Student Grant Reports Blog Student Grant Reports Faculty Grants News Events Working Groups Library Resources Networks NELACS Fall 2020 Newsletter Spring 2019 Newsletter Brown - Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) Columbia - Institute of Latin American Studies (ILAS) UNAM-Boston - Center for Mexican Studies University of Pennsylvania - Latin American and Latino Studies Program Yale – Council on Latin American and Iberian Studies (CLAIS) LAIGN Membership Process Executive Committee Working Groups Gender and Education Gender and Feminist Theory Gender, Economy, Poverty, and Health Gender in the Arts and Humanities Gender in Science, Technology and Innovation Gender and Human Rights Gender and Policy Forum Members Only Gender and Education Gender and Feminist Theory Gender, Economy, Poverty, and Health Gender in the Arts and Humanities Gender in Science, Technology, and Innovation Gender and Human Rights Gender and Policy Forum Events Team Friday Gender Conversatorios Past Events Contact LAIGN Conference: December 3, 2021 Yale-UCV Council on Latin American and Iberian Studies The Council on Latin American and Iberian Studies (CLAIS) at The MacMillan Center seeks to enhance the understanding of Latin America and the Iberian Peninsula through collaborative efforts focused on meaningful partnerships and exchange of ideas and academic research. The Council draws on the strengths of Yale’s pioneering departments of History, Political Science, Anthropology, and Spanish and Portuguese, among others, to offer a broad array of courses, cultural events, scholarly lectures, and academic research. CLAIS organizes several colloquia series, sponsors research abroad, coordinates outreach programs, convenes international conferences, and supports faculty activities and collaborations throughout Latin America and the Iberian Peninsula. News New Publication Featuring Work of Yale Grad Students, Edited by Professor David Jackson June 1, 2022 Poesia-Crítica-Tradução. Haroldo de Campos e a educação dos sentidos Eduardo Jorge de Oliveira (U Zürich) and Kenneth David Jackson (eds.) Contains essays by Yale’s Deptartment of Spanish and Portuguese PhD students O livro reúne vinte e um... Diversity, Equality, and Gender in Latin America and the Caribbean: A Conversation with UN Women’s Maria-Noel Vaeza May 26, 2022 On Wednesday, May 4, a group of several dozen students, faculty, and staff gathered in Luce Hall to hear from Maria-Noel Vaeza, Regional Director of UN Women for Latin America and the Caribbean, during her two-day visit to Yale. Vaeza’s visit... "Even with a PhD, You Are Still a Woman": Gender Policy Forum's Final Session on The Glass Ceiling in STEM in Latin America May 23, 2022 On May 20th, the Gender and Policy Forum of the Latin American Interdisciplinary Gender Network held its final session of the year, focused on research about gender inequality in academia and especially STEM. An introduction about LAIGN’s previous... Advancing Feminist Perspectives on Migration in the Era of Climate Change May 16, 2022 On Friday, May 6, a group of scholars and policymakers came together for the fourth session of the Spring 2022 Gender and Policy Forum. The session, titled “Protecting Women Migrants in the 21st Century,” took place on Zoom and was livestreamed to... More news... Upcoming Events ¡Cuba Vive! Nachito Herrera & His Havana Jazz Club 06/17/2022 - 7:30pm to 9:30pm Proyecto Cimarron & Las Cafeteras 06/25/2022 - 7:00pm to 9:30pm Subscribe to our email list Tweets by @YaleCLAIS Upcoming Events June 17, 2022 - 7:30pm ¡Cuba Vive! Nachito Herrera & His Havana Jazz Club June 25, 2022 - 7:00pm Proyecto Cimarron & Las Cafeteras Featured Videos Gender and Policy Forum - Session 2 - Equality and Civil Society after COVID-19 Gender & Policy Forum -Session 1: Women & Development - Empowering Individuals, Building Communities “Clepsydra and Other Poems” Book Discussion with Translator Adam Mahler Justice From a Gender Perspective Professor David Jackson Discusses New Book and Course on Brazilian Modernists Historical Debates on Legal Abortion Anti-Racist Feminisms in Brazil Las luchas por el aborto legal en América Latina / The Struggle for Legal Abortion in Latin America Watch Full Video > Conference Gender In The Americas - Morning Session. Watch full video > Conference Gender In The Americas - Afternoon Session. Watch full video > The Latin American Studies Major Director of Undergraduate Studies Ana De La O discusses the Latin American Studies Major. Watch full video > Graduate Student Affiliates Network Natalia Ariza talks about organizing a Latin America business conference and about small enterprises in Colombia. Watch full video > The MacMillan Report Noël Valis talks about Lorca After Life. Watch Full Video > Pablo Vidal talks about the impact of mobile phones on nomadic herders in Morocco. Watch full video > Eduardo Fernandez-Duque talks about monogamy in monkeys. Watch full video > Claudia Valeggia talks about the health of indigenous peoples. Watch full video > Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Council on Latin American & Iberian Studies at the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale. Facebook Twitter YouTube