Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Dean of Faculty – Undergraduate Advising & Research Presidential Scholars Coin Internship at the Hood Museum Past Student Honors Theses Share Senior Honors Projects The most extensive research opportunity for Classics majors is the Senior Honors Project. The Honors Project is a year-long project which in most cases carries two course credits, normally in Fall and Winter of the senior year. Several options are available for students to design an honors project that matches their particular interests and abilities. In many cases, the honors project consists of a thesis or creative project, but it is also possible to design a program of readings leading to a comprehensive examination, or a combination of a research paper and a written examination. For more information about honors work in the classics department, please read Frequently Asked Questions about Honors Work in Classics. Past Honors Projects Kevin Donohue '21, "A poet and a scholar is what I was told": Analyses and Poems Inspired by the Two Men in A. E. Housman Naomi Meron '21, "What is your sickness?": Madness in Greek Tragedy and Medical Literature Clayton Howard '21, The Oxford History of the Archaic Greek World: Naxos and Paros Sophia Kocher '21, Mater Patriae: Livia in Nummis after Augustus Noah Simmons '20, The Upwind Performance of Roman Period Sailing Vessels Grace Caldwell '19, Gorgias' Encomium of Helen and the logos - a jeu de l'amour et du hazard Leah Alpern '18, Choosing to be grateful: ethical reasoning in Seneca's On Benefits Maeve Lentricchia '17 "The Theme You Left in Death": Between Euripides and Heidegger Emma Lape '16, Flowers that Bend with the Rainfall: Time and Identity in Greek Epic and Tragedy Thomas Rover '16, The Combat Archaeology of the Fifth-Century BCE Kopis Aaron Pellowski '15, De Tempore Discendum Est: Seneca's Philosophy of Time Kathleen Wahl '15, Lessons in Rape: Sexual Violence in the Roman Declamations Chloe Lee '14, The "Good Men" of 100 BCE: A Study of Cicero's Pro Rabirio Perduellionis Margarita S. Montgomery '14, Poetry of Politics in the 30s BC: A Reading of Vergil's Eclogues and Horace's Epodes  Anna Leah Berstein-Simpson '13, Nostoi: Cultural Repatriation and National Identity Joyce Cho '13, Constructions of the Body of the Mistress By the Men of Latin Love Elegy Sarah Loucks '13, The Rhetoric of Wealth in Demosthenes' On the Crown Joel Malkin '13, Pindar's Delphi: The Delphic Authority behind Epinician Praise Kyle McGinty '13, Circles of Framing and Light: Analyzing the Nimbus in the Mediterranean  (image corpus overview) Chloe Moon '13, Early Athenian Gendering Through Art: Representations of Mixed-Gender Dancing from the Late Geometric to the Late Archaic Period Elizabeth Neill '13, Pillars of Society: Women as Bearers of Burdens in Archaic and Classical Art Emily Stronski '13i, A Representation of Immortality and the Afterlife in the Third Century CE: the Capitoline Prometheus Sarcophagus Emma Vance '13, Before the Alba Mater: Classics, Civilization, and Race at Moor's Indian Charity School Gregory Knight '12, Adeia as Immunity in 5th Century BC Athens Scott O'Brien '12, Seneca on the Renaissance University Stage: The Plays of William Gager and the Function of Moral Agency in the Tragic Genre  Peter Osorio '12, A Classicist Under Constraint  Chelsea Perfect '12, Fortuna Redux in Early Imperial Coinage  Charles H. Clark '11, The Gortyn Laws in Architectural Context Kathryn T. Mammel '11, Bodies in Bloom: The Association of Flora and Female Figures in Late Bronze Age Aegean Iconography  (catalogue) (appendix) Sarah C. Spangenberg '11, Issues of Planning in Diocletian's Palace at Split: Imperial Cult and the Late Antique Palace  (images) Margaret Bell '10, The Gadde of Palmyra and Dura-Europos: Images of Fortune from Late 2nd Century Roman Syria Ryan Marnell '10, "Betwixt the Joys of Sex:" Scholarship and Marriage in Michael Field's treatment of Sappho Christopher Blankenship '09, The Role of the Individual in Ephoros' Histories Ray DiCiaccio '09, DAMP: A Digital Archaeological Mapping Program: Problems with its Applicability to Surface Survey Information Due to Issues of Data Comparability Catherine Lacey '09, Ovid's Art of Meaning: Interpretation and Authority in Tristia 2 Radha D. S. Kulkarni '09, Visualizing the Past: Tu Marcellus Eris Dominic Machado '09, Marcus Claudius Marcellus: Rebellious Republican or Traditional Triumphator? Peter Mathias '09, Capital Punishment and Jurisprudence in Ancient Rome Debra M. Aboodi '08, A Log Cabin Out of Stone: Translating Horace's Epodes Aindriu C. Colgan '08, Understanding Imperial Rome and the Evolving Meaning of Empire Kyle Jazwa '08, Depictions of Boxing in Late Archaic Etruscan Tomb Paintings Alisa R. Koonce '08 (Senior Fellow), Philosophical Studies in early monastic schools: Ontology and mereology in marginal glosses of commentaries to Aristotle's Categories and related writings (10-11 c) Briar (Teron) Dent '08, The Pompeian Bakeries: An Analysis of the Urban Distribution of the Bakeries and Pastry Shops at Pompeii (images) Craig W. Dent '07, Etruscan Tomb Markers: The Archaic and Classical Production of Clusium and Felsina (600-420 BCE) Jacqueline T. Olson '07, At Death's Doors: An Iconographical Study of the Velletri Sarcophagus Katherine B. Harrington '06, A Comparative Study of the Pebble Mosaics of Ancient Greece Sophia S. Khan '06, Polis under Threat: The Enduring Power of Euripides' Hecuba Bradley G. Wolcott '06, Striking a Balance: The numismatic Evidence for the Religious and Political Policy of Constantine the Great Matthew R. Jedreski '05, Minoan Religious Architecture in Glyptic Art: A Complete Contextual Analysis Tori L. McKee '05, Representations of Wives and Marriageable Women in Pliny the Younger and Ps. - Quintilian Matthew I. Kenney '04, The Military Nike Sarah C. Murray '04, Man Overboard? A Re-evaluation of the Under-representation of Sailors and Naval Warfare in Classical Athenian Art Magdalena M. Panz '04, The Aesthetics of Desire in Sappho: A Comparative Reading with Charles Baudelaire George M. Storm '04, Damnatio Memoriae: Case Studies from the Roman Republic through the First Century AD Christopher M. Chan '03, Plautus and the Learned Comedy of the Renaissance Rose B. MacLean '03, Fashioning a Freed Self: Representations of Civic and Familial Identity in the Ostian Epigraphic Monuments Dongngan Truong '02, A Novel Theme for Elegy: Abortion in Ovid, Amores 2.13 and 2.14 Julia Tzeng '02, Hadrian's Provincial Policies: An Examination of Achaea, Britannia, and Judea under the Reign of Hadrian Michael F. O'Donnell '02, Poet as Playwright: Characterization through Speech in Homer's Iliad Julie B. Axelrod '01, Lifting the Veil: A Critical Model for the Interpretation of Juvenal's Satires Seth L. Button '01, Chariots in War and and Art in the Late Bronze Age Aegean Abigail J. Gillard '01, Politics in the Kerameikos and Demosion Sema: Civic Identity and Funerary Custom in Fifth-Century BC Atheos Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback