Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Language Study -- Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Culminating Experience Share Winter 2022 Winter 2022 CLST 07.11 First-Year Seminar: Migration in the Ancient Mediterranean This seminar examines migration, displacement, and free and forced mobility in the ancient Mediterranean world more generally through analysis of primary sources and debates on them in scholarship. Sources we will consider include textual accounts and archaeological evidence from both the multi-continental entity today known as ancient Greece and the Italian peninsula. Through contributions to the RMS common terminology project and short reading responses, students will develop a critical vocabulary for discussing migration as well as their own abilities to ask historical questions, particularly those exposing the differences and similarities between Greco-Roman antiquity and our modern world. Oppen. 9L. CLST 10.14/GRK 28: Plato's Symposium. A small-enrollment seminar offering an introduction to Plato's thought and to a rich vein of material illustrating Greek attitudes and assumptions on erotic love for both sexes. The primary text is Plato's Symposium, which we will study in translation while learning the Greek alphabet and a few key vocabulary items in Greek. As time allows during the term, we will explore some of the rich body of evidence that exists in Greek poetry, oratory, and the visual arts either confirming or contradicting the impression given by Plato.TMV, W. Graver. 2 CLST 11.16 Ancient Medicine This course will explore the Greek and Roman origins of medicine in the West. We will analyze how disease came to be understood as a natural phenomenon, and we will examine the different procedures, philosophies, and social roles of doctors in the ancient world. In this investigation, we will encounter many questions with which we are still grappling today, such as: What constitutes scientific thinking? How do science and cultural context determine and reflect one another? What is human nature? Is a disease a moral failing? How do we understand gender and sex in medical terms? All readings will be in translation, and no prior knowledge of medicine or Greco-Roman antiquity is necessary. TMV, W. Glauthier. 11 CLST 11.19/HIST 94.16: Before Billboards and Twitter: Roman Coins as Text. This course focuses on the coin production of ancient Rome, the development and use of money at Rome, the logistics of coin production, and the methods for studying coinage to write ancient history. Roman coinage offers a rare type of evidence from the ancient world and a path of discovery: a continuous at times annual record. Of even more potential value for the ancient historian: in issuing coins the Roman government exploited the potential of a commonly circulated medium to carry value-laden symbols and captions throughout the Roman world and beyond, wherever money changed hands. Nowhere else in the ancient world can we watch a discourse so systematically and comprehensively as we can on coins. Moreover coins often bring forward communities and persons otherwise unrecorded in other ancient sources, allowing us to nuance the political narratives of the literary sources in terms of local traditions or individual identity (gender, ethnicity, religion). The problem: how to interpret accurately and most fully the evidence of the coins—their symbols and wording-- in order to write ancient history. In this hands-on course, students will learn the basics of numismatic methodology and the history of Roman coinage during the Republic and Principate, by handling and studying ancient coins from the collection in Dartmouth's Hood Museum of Art. Students will learn numismatic methods (die study, hoard analysis, metrology and type identification, iconographic study) that allow us to consider coins as documentary sources in their own right. A final unit treats the ethics of coin collecting and the role of the modern museum. Students will prepare material for a coin installation and research the possible purchase of a coin for the Hood museum collection. SOC. Stewart. 12 GRK 1 - Introductory Ancient Greek Study of Greek grammar, syntax, and vocabulary accompanied by reading of simple Greek prose selections. This course is designed to be followed immediately by GRK 3 in a two-term sequence. Lynn 9L GRK 28/CLST 10.14: Plato's Symposium A small-enrollment seminar offering an introduction to Plato's thought and to a rich vein of material illustrating Greek attitudes and assumptions on erotic love for both sexes. The primary text is Plato's Symposium, which we will study in the original language using an extraordinarily helpful study text by Louise Pratt (Eros at the Banquet). As time allows during the term, we will explore some of the rich body of evidence that exists in Greek poetry, oratory, and the visual arts either confirming or contradicting the impression given by Plato. TMV, W. Graver. 2 LAT 1 - Introductory Latin I A rapid introduction to the Latin language through reading passages of gradually increasing difficulty, with an introduction to the history and culture of Pompeii and Roman Egypt in the first century AD. course flier Walker. 9L LAT 2 - Introductory Latin II - Continues the study of the Latin language, with a look at the history and culture of Roman Britain and the city of Rome in the first century AD. Includes an introduction to Roman funerary inscriptions, curse tablets, and coins. Glauthier, Walker, Oppen. 9L, 10, 2 LAT 10: Reading Latin Texts An introduction to continuous readings of Latin prose and poetry in combination with a review of Latin grammar. Students develop the necessary language and study skills to allow them to take more advanced Latin courses. LIT, W. Lynn. 10 LAT 29 - Courtroom Speech In this class we will read Cicero's speech for Aulus Cluentius (Pro Cluentio) as an example of Roman legal argument. In 66 BCE Cicero defended Aulus Cluentius on a charge of murdering his stepfather Statius Albius Oppianicus. Both men—as well as many others involved in the case--came from local towns in Roman Italy. The stakes for conviction: loss of civic status, essentially a social death. Cicero's defense of his client provides a masterly example of courtroom defense strategies (the mustering of evidence, witness testimony, manipulation of legal procedures) and the courtroom story-telling that created presumptive realities of "wrong" and "truth," of "innocence" or "guilt." The speech thus affords insight into questions of Roman courtroom procedure and judicial integrity, of the assimilation of Italians within the Roman social and political community and access to Roman law, and of the social expectations of gender as a rhetorical strategy in courtroom speech. SOC. Stewart. 10A Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback