Skip to main content Search Cornell Extras Search Cornell Class Roster Section Menu Browse Scheduler Syllabi Favorites FAQ Toggle Navigation Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Spring 2022 Winter 2022 Archived Rosters Back to Top PLSCI 2010 Last Updated Schedule of Classes - May 31, 2022 7:26PM EDT Course Catalog - May 31, 2022 7:14PM EDT Classes PLSCI 2010 Magical Mushrooms, Mischievous Molds Course Description Course information provided by the Courses of Study 2021-2022. Presentation of the fungi and how they shape our civilizations and the natural world in which we live. Fungi play important roles in pressing issues in agriculture, food security, climate, disease, and environment. This class emphasizes the significance of fungi as decayers of organic matter, as pathogens and symbionts of plants and animals, as food, and as sources of mind-altering chemicals. When Offered Spring. Forbidden Overlaps Forbidden Overlap: due to an overlap in content, students will not receive credit for both PLSCI 2010 and PLSCI 2013. Distribution Category (OPHLS-AG) Outcomes Describe the properties of fungi and relate them to their abilities and their contributions to ecosystems. Discuss positive and negative effects of fungi on food and agriculture and evaluate their impacts on global food security. Explain how fungal toxins, allergens, and diseases affect human health. Apply evolutionary concepts and knowledge of fungal life cycles to devise ways to manage disease progress. Describe fungal foods, biochemicals, and materials and explain how they may contribute to environmental sustainability. Compare lichen and mycorrhizal symbioses and discuss their contributions to carbon cycling and climate. Communicate information about a wide range of fungi and their impacts to diverse audiences. View Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Syllabi: 1 available Regular Academic Session. Combined with: PLSCI 2013 Credits and Grading Basis 2 Credits Opt NoAud(Letter or S/U grades (no audit)) Class Number & Section Details 2845 PLSCI 2010 LEC 001 Meeting Pattern TR 1:30pm - 2:20pm Kennedy Hall 116-Call Aud Jan 24 - May 10, 2022 Instructors Hodge, K To be determined. There are currently no textbooks/materials listed, or no textbooks/materials required, for this section. Additional information may be found on the syllabus provided by your professor. For the most current information about textbooks, including the timing and options for purchase, see the Cornell Store. Additional Information Instruction Mode: In Person Share Or send this URL: × Available Syllabi Close About the Class Roster The schedule of classes is maintained by the Office of the University Registrar. Current and future academic terms are updated daily. Additional detail on Cornell University's diverse academic programs and resources can be found in the Courses of Study. Visit The Cornell Store for textbook information. Please contact coursenroll@cornell.edu with questions or feedback. If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University ©2022