Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Margaret Graver Academic Appointments Chair, Department of Classics Aaron Lawrence Professor in Classics Margaret Graver is the Aaron Lawrence Professor in Classics. Her areas of specialization is Hellenistic and Roman philosophy, especially the philosophy of mind and emotion. After completing her doctorate at Brown University, she taught briefly at Princeton University, then joined the faculty at Dartmouth College in 1996, where she offers a variety of courses on Greek and Roman Philosophy, Plato, Aristotle, Latin literature including Lucretius, Cicero, and Seneca, and on the Latin language. In addition to her teaching at Dartmouth, Prof. Graver regularly lectures and gives seminars at institutions throughout the U.S. and Europe, including two short-term appointments at French universities. Her major publications include Cicero on the Emotions: Tusculan Disputations 3 and 4, which is a translation with philosophical commentary of Cicero’s redaction of Stoic emotion theory; Stoicism and Emotion, treating all aspects of Stoic thought on the mind, affective response, and character development; and most recently a complete annotated translation of Seneca’s Letters on Ethics in collaboration with A.A. Long of the University of California at Berkeley. Numerous article-length pieces have appeared in scholarly journals and collections. + View more View Curriculum Vitae Contact Margaret.R.Graver@Dartmouth.EDU 646-2414 310A Reed Hall HB 6086 Education B.A. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Ph.D. Brown University 1996 Areas of Expertise Ancient philosophy /Latin literature Selected Publications Seneca: Letters on Ethics. Translated and with an Introduction and Commentary by Margaret Graver and A.A. Long. Chicago, 2015; paperback 2017. Stoicism and Emotion. Chicago, 2007; paperback 2009. Cicero on the Emotions: Tusculan Disputations 3 and 4. Chicago, 2002; paperback 2002. “The Dregs of Romulus: Stoic Philosophy in Cicero’s Pro Murena and De Oratore.” In Ciceroniana 1.1 (2017). http://www.ojs.unito.it/index.php/COL, online May 22, 2017. “The Stoics' Ethical Psychology.” Cambridge Companion to Ancient Ethics, ed. C. Bobonich, 200-217. Cambridge, 2017. “Seneca’s Peripatetics: Epistulae Morales 92 and Stobaean Doxography ‘C’.” In Arius Didymus on Peripatetic Ethics, ed. W. Fortenbaugh, 309-42. Transaction, 2017. “Pre-Emotions and Reader Emotions in Seneca.” Maia 69 (2017), 281-96. “The Performance of Grief: Cicero, Stoicism, and the Public Eye.” In Emotions in the Classical World: Methods, Approaches, and Directions, ed. Douglas Cairns and Damien Nelis, 195-206. Stuttgart: Steiner, 2016. “Anatomies of Joy: Seneca, Claranus, and the Gaudium Tradition.” In Hope, Joy and Affection in the Classical World, ed. Ruth R. Caston and Robert A. Kaster, 123-42. Oxford University Press, 2016. “Seneca the Younger's Philosophical Works” (annotated bibliography of secondary works). Oxford Bibliographies in the Classics, ed. Dee Clayman. New York: Oxford University Press, April 25, 2016. View online here. “Honor and the Honorable: Cato’s Discourse in De Finibus 3.” 119-46 in Cicero's De Finibus: Philosophical Perspectives (= Proceedings of the12th Symposium Hellenisticum), ed. J. Annas and Gabor Betegh. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2015. + View more Speaking Engagements "An Ethics of Positive Aid: Beneficence, Intention, Gratitude." At The Israel Institute for Advanced Study (Hebrew University of Jerusalem), May 22, 2018. Also a seminar: "Paradoxes of Giving" on May 23. “The Psychology of Honor in Cicero’s De Re Publica.” At the University of Durham (England). Feb. 10, 2018. Conference Title: “New Perspectives on Cicero’s Philosophy.” Also at the University of Cambridge, Feb. 12, 2018, and at the University of Edinburgh, Feb. 15, 2018. "The Dispassionate Life." At Stoicon in Toronto, Oct. 14, 2017 (visit http://modernstoicism.com/interview-with-margaret-graver/ "How not to feel what there is to feel: Cynic apatheia, atomist ataraxia, Stoic apatheia." At the University of Bern, Switzerland, June 8, 2017. “The Money-Box, the Mouse, and the Six-Footed Scurrying Solecism: Satire and Riddles in Seneca’s Letters.” At Cornell University, April 25, 2017. Six lectures at the University of Paris-Sorbonne, March - April 2016: “Introduction à Sénèque” (March 15); “Le loisir et la lecture” (March 24); “Sénèque contre Aristote” (March 31); “Les émotions et les sentiments du lecteur” (April 1); “Le lecteur-abeille et l’écriture de soi” (April 8); “Épicure, maître de Sénèque ?” (April 11, rescheduled to Paris-3) Works In Progress Prof. Graver is currently working on a collection of essays on Seneca’s philosophy, under contract with Cambridge University Press, and on a monograph studying Cicero’s reception of Stoic ethics throughout his career. Courses Classical Studies 3: Reason and the Good Life: Socrates to Epictetus LAT 26.01 Seneca: Humorist and Critic Greek 28 Philosophy GRK/LAT 30 Mythology Seminar Related Links A blog series (in progress) on Stoicism and Emotion "Cicero and the Psychology of Honor" A blog interview Another blog interview “The Dispassionate Life” A videotaped interview on Lucretius An interview on the emotions in Stoicism + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback