Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Mastering the Art of Reading Medieval Manuscripts PreviousNext Throughout the fall, a group of students met in Dartmouth Library's Rauner Special Collections Library to decipher handwritten texts from the Middle Ages. The class—"Latin Paleography," co-taught by Jennifer Lynn, language program director in the Department of Classics, and medievalist Cecilia Gaposchkin, a professor and chair of the Department of History—was a one-of-a-kind opportunity for undergraduates interested in Latin, medieval studies, and the history of books. Paleography—the study of historical manuscripts and handwriting—isn't usually taught at the undergraduate level, says Gaposchkin. "It is amazing that we have 10 students who want to learn this," she says. "They're doing graduate-level work." Textspeak for the Middle Ages Before the printing press, European scribes wrote and copied manuscripts with quill and ink, in Latin. Today, making sense of these works requires knowledge of everything from calligraphic styles to idiomatic Latin expressions and abbreviations—think textspeak for the Middle Ages. "It's literally the same thing," says Kamil Salame '24, a member of the School House residential community from Greenwich, Conn., comparing abbreviations used by medieval writers to modern shortened forms, such as LOL or OMG. In manuscript shorthand, "DNO means domino (lord), DS is deus (god)," says Salame, who plans a modified government major. "A u with a line over it equals the letters um—they just didn't want to fit the last character in at the end, the way we would write 'tho' instead of 'though.' " "It's like solving a puzzle," says Elizabeth Hadley '23, a member of School House from North Caldwell, N.J., who calls the class "one of the best experiences I've had at Dartmouth." Quote It is amazing that we have 10 students who want to learn this. They're really doing graduate-level work. Attribution Cecilia Gaposchkin, professor of history A premed classics major, Hadley says it's "fun to put the pieces together to figure out the words. And then just seeing the manuscripts themselves. These are artifacts that you never would think that you'd be able to see." Paleography is an essential part of classical and medieval scholarship, Lynn says. "Even if you're reading classical texts that come in a printed book—Cicero or Virgil, say—some editor looked at all the manuscripts we have and had to decide which one is right. You have to be able to assess the work of the editor, even if most of your reading is from books." Manuscripts can help reveal details of the specific time and culture in which they were written, Gaposchkin says. "Any scholar worth his or her salt invariably ends up having to contend with the material record of what our knowledge is based on. Often the only way to date and place a piece of evidence is through the writing. It's a basic technical skill for doing provenance work." Hands-On Learning In a typical session, the students gather in Rauner's Ticknor Room with a manuscript open on table, the page under discussion projected on a screen and a library cart of reference books nearby. The students have transcribed and translated the text in advance, and they go around the circle sharing interpretations. The professors weigh in with pieces of historical and linguistic context. "It's a fundamentally collaborative discipline," Salame says. "You need multiple pairs of eyes on a manuscript in order for someone to see something that perhaps you can't see in the moment." The students learn about manuscript conservation from Dartmouth Library's collections conservator, Deborah Howe; codicology, or the study of books as physical objects, from special collections librarian Morgan Swan; and visit the Book Arts Workshop, where Program Manager Sarah Smith shows them how to make oak gall ink and quill pens and lets them practice writing their own Gothic calligraphy. "It's hard, but fun to put yourself in the scribe's position—in the shoes of the person writing the stuff that we're reading for homework," says Hadley. For their final projects, the students document manuscript fragments from Rauner's collection—artifacts that no one may have looked at closely for hundreds of years. "I'm looking at a martyrology from the 11th century on Saints Palatias and Laurentia," says Salame. "It's a fragment of a folio that was torn out of its original manuscript and repurposed as part of a binding for another manuscript. There are scribal notes in the margins and superimposed text in another hand from a later period. On some of the edges, the text cuts off and I have to figure out what the words are." "Rauner has a lot of fragments that have very minimal metadata," Gaposchkin says. "The students have to basically do the work of a librarian or historian." Written by Hannah Silverstein, article in The Dartmouth Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback