Skip to main content Main menu - level 1 -2 (primary) Department About Introduction Advisory Council Diversity & Equity News Recent Archive Newsletter Forms Contact Directory Map + Directions Programs Undergraduate Why Classics? Tracks Juniors Seniors Study Travel Classics Club Prizes Alumnae/i Dates & Deadlines How to Declare Graduate Prospectus Affiliated Programs Reading Lists Academic Information Dissertations Dates & Deadlines GradFUTURES Pre-Doc Fellowship Visiting Scholars People Faculty Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Emeritae/i Visitors Undergrads Grads Alumnae/i Undergraduate Graduate Staff Research Fields Bookshelf Dissertations Courses Current Undergraduate Graduate Past Events Upcoming All Lectures Conferences Other Archive All Lectures Conferences Other Recordings Beyond the Academy Site branding Search Alerts COVID-19 Princeton University is actively monitoring the situation around coronavirus (COVID-19). Latest updates regarding COVID-19 are available on the University Coronavirus Information website. X Page title Princeton Classics Main page content Content Fields THE PRINCETON CLASSICS DEPARTMENT investigates the history, language, literature, and thought of ancient Greece and Rome. We use the perspectives of multiple disciplines to understand and imagine the diversity of these civilizations over almost two thousand years and to reflect on what the classical past has meant to later ages, and to our own. Department News and Events Student Voices Emma Treadway thinks about Classics and public education Emma Treadway ('22) used her senior thesis to explore how some of the basic tenets of Stoicism — a school of philosophy that dates from 300 BCE — can help address problems in K-12 public education. She examines how an emphasis on social and emotional learning, as opposed to purely academic learning, “when combined with a Stoic twist,” can teach students to engage empathetically with the world and address in the classroom inequalities that disproportionately harm children of color, girls and children with disabilities. more Student Award Stinnecke Exam Prize Awarded to Sebastian Hayden We are pleased to announce that Sebastian Hayden, Class of 2024, is the winner of the Stinnecke Prize in 2022. The Stinnecke Exam Award prize is given to the sophomore or junior who passes the best examination based on the Odes of Horace, Eclogues of Vergil, and the Latin Grammar and Prosody, as well as the Anabasis of Xenophon or Plato’s Euthyphro, Crito, Apology and Phaedo and the Greek Grammar. more Student Award Katherine Dennis wins teaching award Classics graduate student Katherine Dennis has won a teaching award for her significant contribution to undergraduate teaching at Princeton. Each year, the Graduate School honors those graduate students who have gone above and beyond in their teaching work. Congratulations, Katherine! more Post-Event Reflection Rebecca Fleming delivers Prentice Lecture On the evening of Thursday, April 18th, Rebecca Flemming (Cambridge University) delivered the 2022 Prentice Lecture, entitled “Galen on Race, Health and Disease: Medicine and Empire in the Roman World.” This informative and wide-ranging talk, presenting part of Dr. Flemming’s research for a forthcoming book on medicine and empire, engaged issues of relevance to everyone doing work in Classics today. more Post-Event Reflection Kamila Shamsie delivers 2022 Fagles lecture This year’s annual Fagles Lecture was delivered in conjunction with the English department’s 17th Edward W. Said Memorial Lecture. Award-winning author Kamila Shamsie, a British-Pakistani novelist best-known for Home Fire, her extraordinary retelling of Sophocles’s Antigone, guided a rapt audience of students and professors through an array of topics including art history, ancient India, colonial education and literary fiction as part of a talk titled 'Antigone of Pakistan: Narrative Violence and the Impossibility of Homecoming’. more News Dan-El Padilla Peralta Giving W.E.B. Du Bois Lecture in African American Studies at Harvard April 5, 6, and 7 The W. E. B. Du Bois Lectures were established in 1981 with funding from the Ford Foundation. These lectures recognize persons of outstanding achievement who have contributed to the understanding of African and African American life, history, and culture. Previous speakers have included Danielle Allen, K. Anthony Appiah, Homi K. Bhabha, Hazel Carby, Stephen L. Carter, Stuart Hall, Michael Hanchard, Judge A. Leon Higginbotham, Glenn C. Loury, Julianne Malveaux, Manning Marable, John McWhorter, Sidney Mintz, Brent Staples, and Cornel West. more Forthcoming Author Kamila Shamsie to deliver 2022 Fagles lecture Award-winning author Kamila Shamsie will deliver Princeton’s 2022 Robert Fagles Lecture for Classics in conjunction with the Department of English's 17th Annual Edward W. Said Memorial Lecture. Shamsie is the author of several novels including Broken Verses (2005), Burnt Shadows (2009) and Home Fire (2017), which was longlisted for the Man Booker Prize. Home Fire won the Women's Prize for Fiction in 2018. more Post-Event Reflection Shivaike Shah presents "Uprooting Medea" Shivaike Shah, founder of Khameleon Productions and Visiting Artist at Brown University, delivered a talk on Princeton’s campus the evening of Thursday, February 24th, as part of his countrywide “Uprooting Medea” tour. more Sophomore Open House Wednesday, March 16, 2022 Upper Hyphen Chancellor Green - East Pyne All sophomores are welcome to the annual Department of Classics Sophomore Open House. Come learn about all the department has to offer and meet faculty and current majors. Refreshments will be served. more CLASSICAL MATTERS Stories recommended by faculty, students, and alumni (submit suggestion) New Research Tracks Ancient Artifacts Looted by the Nazis The New York Times Close Readings: Among the Ancients London Review of Books Ancient Roman room for slaves discovered at Pompeii The Guardian The substantial pleasure of a new Classics glossary The Times Literary Supplement The Classicist who killed Homer New Yorker Celebrating neurodiversity in Classics Asterion Back to top Main Menu - level 1-2 (footer) Department About Diversity & Equity News Forms Contact Programs Undergraduate Graduate Pre-Doc Fellowship Visiting Scholars People Faculty Undergrads Grads Alumnae/i Staff Research Fields Bookshelf Dissertations Courses Current Past Events Upcoming Archive Recordings Beyond the Academy Department of Classics Department of Classics Princeton University 141 East Pyne Princeton, NJ 08544 tel: (609) 258-3951 fax: (609) 258-1943 classics@princeton.edu Facebook Footer links Contact Map + Directions Emergency Action Plan Privacy Notice Log in Accessibility © 2020 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton University logo