Guest session Sign In/Sign Up Sign In/Sign Up with Harvard PIN explore navigate journey... teach with us! Special Collections and Archives Class Request Tool Toggle navigation Home Libraries/Archives Baker Library Special Collections Botany Libraries Center for the History of Medicine, Francis A. Countway Library of Medicine Davis Center Collection, Fung Library Ernst Mayr Library of the Museum of Comparative Zoology Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Special Collections General Special Collections Gutman Library Special Collections Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Library Preservation Services Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library Special Collections Houghton Library Law Library, Historical & Special Collections Loeb Music Library Map Collection Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Woodberry Poetry Room Questions/Feedback Welcome Teach with us! With Special Collections, students can discover and engage with primary sources and learn about material culture. We can incorporate material and staff from across Harvard's Special Collections in a single session, or work with you on longer- term class projects. By helping to select materials and design activities, our staff can engage students and classes through active learning to meet your learning goals. With these experiences, students come away knowing they are welcome in Special Collections and inspired in their research. NOTE: general library instruction sessions are scheduled separately through Ask a Librarian. Request A Class Select a library or archive: -- Choose a Library/Archive --Baker Library Special Collections Botany Libraries Center for the History of Medicine, Francis A. Countway Library of Medicine Davis Center Collection, Fung Library Ernst Mayr Library of the Museum of Comparative Zoology Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Special Collections General Special Collections Gutman Library Special Collections Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Library Preservation Services Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library Special Collections Houghton Library Law Library, Historical & Special Collections Loeb Music Library Map Collection Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Woodberry Poetry Room Request Class Recent Classes Voyages and Voyageurs in Early Modern France Mapping: Geographic Represention and Speculation The Age of the Novel Greek Palaeography The Imperial Map: Geographic Information in the Age of Empire Jeu de lot Dauphin, ThrZ, a game of chance, played by the Tangible Things class. From the Houghton Library Join Us! Are you a special collections library/archive at Harvard? Would you like to participate? Let us know! The Class Request Tool was developed with the generous support of the Arcadia Fund, the Berkman Center for Internet & Society, the Harvard Library Lab, Harvard Library Technology Services, and Houghton Library.