/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Program Ph.D. Program Bridge M.A. Fellowship Course Listings Past Courses Faculty Research Faculty Books Archaeology Projects Digital Projects Townsend Lectures About Us Department Contacts Statement on Diversity and Inclusion The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Accessing the past Department of Classics Classics is the original interdisciplinary academic field at the heart both of European/western civilization and today’s Liberal Arts education. We teach and research the languages (Greek, Latin), literature, history, philosophy, science, art, and material culture that survive from the worlds of ancient Greece, Rome, and Late Antiquity. Through archaeology and art history we investigate and analyze the material record and environment of these civilizations and their neighbors – accessing a past beyond the texts of the elite and their mostly male voices to explore fully this world from top to bottom. The Sculpture Shoppe: May 5-29, 2022 Space B07, The Shops at Ithaca Mall 30 Catherwood Road, Ithaca, NY The Sculpture Shoppe will be open Sunday, May 29 from noon until 8:00 PM, with the performance by Medusa starting at 6:00 PM. All are welcome! Medusa is a nonbinary ‘revenge-pop’ musician based in Buffalo, New York. Their signature production - described by Soundriv as “a breakthrough collection of LGBTQ hymns,” and by Bucketlist as “the most inventive [expletive] music we’ve heard in a long time” - often features unconventional sounds like wolf howls and cheerleading chants. Medusa describes their style as “by any means necessary,” then makes good on the promise. The Sculpture Shoppe at Ithaca Mall is an exhibition of plaster reproductions of classical Greco-Roman art from the Cornell Cast Collection and responses to cast culture and classical art by contemporary artists and thinkers. The exhibition will take place from May 5-29, 2022, in a former retail space at the Ithaca Mall (next to the Food Court). By bringing classical art and contemporary responses into an unexpected context through the venue of the near-abandoned shopping mall, we hope to draw the public into conversations about the history, problematics, and mutability of the “western canon”. Opening times are Wednesdays and Thursdays 4:00-8:00 PM and Saturday and Sunday 12:00-5:00 PM, starting May 5 until May 29. Artists featured: Katherine Akey, Daniel G. Andújar and Richard Fletcher (Minus Plato), Sherwin Banfield, Laurie Berenhaus, WonJung Choi, Jeanne Ciravolo, Dan Daly, Benjamin Entner, Pablo Garcia-Lopez, Gemelxs VS, William E. Jones, Athena Kirk, Angaelica LaPasta, Gracelee Lawrence, Rebecca Levitan and Danny Smith, Virginia Maksymowicz, Leeza Meksin, Muse AK (Rusty Keeler, Stephen Sansom, Norm Scott, and David Fifield), Sofia Moreno and David Nasca, Joshua Reiman, Marina Resende Santos, Kaitlin Santoro, Ciaran Short, Jeffrey Slomba, Kyle Staver, Rhonda Weppler, and Christina West. Learn More Undergraduate Program Bridge M.A. in Classics Ph.D. Program Classics Faculty News from Classics Latin and Greek Mottos for Cornell’s Earth Source Heat project Cornell’s Earth Source Heat borehole project already had a fitting English motto: “Onward and Downward.” Now, the project has Latin and Greek mottos courtesy of Prof. Daniel Gallagher: Energeia Geothermica: Perge deorsum! Read More Fall 2022 Highlighted Courses Classes of interest for first-year students. Read More Contemporary and ancient art exhibit enlivens Ithaca Mall The “Sculpture Shoppe” exhibition displays selections from Cornell’s plaster cast collection of Greco-Roman sculptures alongside – and sometimes within – contemporary artists’ responses to cast culture and classical art. Read More Norm Scott Stephen Sansom concludes his time at Cornell with “MUSE-AK” performance Stephen Sansom, a Postdoctoral Associate in Classics, took the stage with his bandmates on May 5 for “MUSE–AK: a Mall Performance of Ancient Greek Song.” This wonderful contribution to the Sculpture Shoppe exhibition made a fitting conclusion for Stephen's time at Cornell. He will begin his new posi... Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Arts and Sciences faculty honored for teaching, advising excellence "These faculty members and graduate teaching assistants have made tremendous contributions for the benefit of our students, guiding their educational paths and molding their experiences." Read More 'I had to complete my junior year in China because of the pandemic' Jingkai Liu is a Classics and Government major. Read More Sculpture Shoppe launches with ancient Greek song performance The Sculpture Shoppe, located in a former retail space in Ithaca Mall, will be open through the month of May. Read More See more news from the Department of Classics What is Classics? Classics is about learning Latin and Greek Neither language is spoken today, but hundreds of world-historical masterpieces were written in those two languages. Ancient Greek is the key that unlocks Homer, philosophy, tragedy, comedy, history, particle physics, and half the Bible. Latin is the key that unlocks epic poetry, stage drama, fables, rhetoric, law, and the reawakening of the West in the Renaissance. The two languages together allow you to observe, like a firsthand witness, the downhill slide of Rome’s thousand-year civilization from an American-style democracy to an authoritarian empire. Studying them, and the voices of the women and men who spoke them, reveals more than just the mindset of a people that built the Coliseum and the catacombs. Those voices also reveal the foundations of the modern world order—from secular humanism to religious orthodoxy. They’re also a lot of fun! Classics beyond the classroom Classics doesn’t just involve learning your Latin principal parts (important though they are!). Our students and faculty engage with the Greco-Roman world in multiple ways, whether speaking “living Latin” in Rome, taking part in archaeological digs or traveling seminars to Europe, curating exhibitions, or putting on performances of ancient plays. From experiments with ancient technology to the use of myth in contemporary art, we celebrate and explore the enduring relevance and reinvention of the Classical past within the 21st century. Department of Classics Events Aug 20 Latin and Ancient Greek Placement Exam Goldwin Smith Hall Sep 07 Fall 2022 Townsend Lecturer: Constanze Güthenke See all events 120 Goldwin Smith Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Department of Classics 607-255-7471 Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top