Skip to main content Search Cornell Extras Search Cornell Class Roster Section Menu Browse Scheduler Syllabi Favorites FAQ Toggle Navigation Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Spring 2022 Winter 2022 Archived Rosters Back to Top PHYS 1204 Last Updated Schedule of Classes - May 31, 2022 7:26PM EDT Course Catalog - May 31, 2022 7:14PM EDT Classes PHYS 1204 Physics of Musical Sound Course Description Course information provided by the Courses of Study 2021-2022. This course explores the physics of musical sound. How and what do our ears hear? How does that determine the kinds of sounds we find pleasant and not so pleasant? How is sound generated by strings, pipes, and plates, and what determines the characteristics – pitch, timbre, attack, consonance, or dissonance – of that sound? How do the major families of musical instruments (string, wind, reed, brass, percussion) and specific examples (violin, guitar, piano, flute, oboe, trumpet, chimes, pipe organ) work, and how does that affect how they are played and the sounds they produce? How do we generate sound when we sing, and how does that vary in different kinds of singing? What makes for a good concert hall or listening space? These are explained using physical and mathematical concepts including vibrations, standing waves, harmonic series, beats, spectra, and logarithms, and illustrated using demonstrations, audio clips, and musical selections from a wide variety of genres. This course is a Writing In The Majors course: both science writing and physics problem-solving skills are developed through weekly assignments. Student activities include hands-on investigations of musical instruments and field trips. At the level of The Science of Sound by Rossing, Moore, and Wheeler. When Offered Spring. Distribution Category (PBS-AS, PHS-AS) Comments Assumes no scientific background but uses high school algebra. Open to all students and suitable for non-scientists; does not serve as prerequisite for further science courses. View Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Syllabi: none Regular Academic Session. Choose one lecture and one discussion. Combined with: MUSIC 1466 Credits and Grading Basis 3 Credits Stdnt Opt(Letter or S/U grades) Class Number & Section Details 4496 PHYS 1204 LEC 001 Meeting Pattern MWF 1:30pm - 2:20pm Rockefeller Hall 231 Jan 24 - May 10, 2022 Instructors Thorne, R To be determined. There are currently no textbooks/materials listed, or no textbooks/materials required, for this section. Additional information may be found on the syllabus provided by your professor. For the most current information about textbooks, including the timing and options for purchase, see the Cornell Store. Additional Information Instruction Mode: In Person All enrollment requests should be directed to physicsenrollment@cornell.edu Class Number & Section Details 4499 PHYS 1204 DIS 201 Meeting Pattern W 2:40pm - 3:30pm Clark Hall 294H Jan 24 - May 10, 2022 Instructors Thorne, R To be determined. There are currently no textbooks/materials listed, or no textbooks/materials required, for this section. Additional information may be found on the syllabus provided by your professor. For the most current information about textbooks, including the timing and options for purchase, see the Cornell Store. Additional Information Instruction Mode: In Person Class Number & Section Details 4500 PHYS 1204 DIS 202 Meeting Pattern F 2:40pm - 3:30pm Clark Hall 294H Jan 24 - May 10, 2022 Instructors Thorne, R To be determined. There are currently no textbooks/materials listed, or no textbooks/materials required, for this section. Additional information may be found on the syllabus provided by your professor. For the most current information about textbooks, including the timing and options for purchase, see the Cornell Store. Additional Information Instruction Mode: In Person Share Or send this URL: × Available Syllabi Close About the Class Roster The schedule of classes is maintained by the Office of the University Registrar. Current and future academic terms are updated daily. Additional detail on Cornell University's diverse academic programs and resources can be found in the Courses of Study. Visit The Cornell Store for textbook information. Please contact coursenroll@cornell.edu with questions or feedback. If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University ©2022