Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Roberta L. Stewart Academic Appointments Professor of Classical Studies View Curriculum Vitae Contact Roberta.L.Stewart@Dartmouth.EDU 646-2911 311 Reed Hall HB 6086 Education B.A. University of Michigan American School of Classical Studies at Athens Ph.D. Duke University Areas of Expertise Roman history, literature and culture /comparative slavery /Roman coins /Roman women /Roman priesthood and the holy /Greek and Latin Literature /Ancient Religion Selected Publications “Ancient Narratives and Modern War Stories: Reading Homer with Combat Veterans,” Amphora 12.1 (2015) 1-3, 20-21. “The Slave as Roman Outsider,” in D. Hammer, ed. Blackwell Companion to Ancient and Modern Democracies and Republics: A Comparative Approach (Wiley-Blackwell, 2014) 405-428. Plautus and Roman Slavery (Wiley-Blackwell, 2012). Reviews: BMCR 2012.11.50 (W. Owen); Choice 50 (2012) 545 (D. Lateiner); Greece and Rome 60 (2013) 320-322 (R. Langlands); Classical Review (2014) 1-3 (S. H. Blake). TLL 10.1 (2010) s.v. pontifex 2672-80. “Who’s Tricked? Models of Slave Behavior in Plautus’ Pseudolus ,” (2006). Public Office in Early Rome: Ritual Procedure and Political Practice , (1998). “Publicity and the Lot: the Politics of the Sortition at Rome,” in The Shapes of City Life in Rome and Pompeii: Essays in Honor of Lawrence Richardson, Jr., on the Occasion of His Retirement , M T Boatwright and H Evans (eds.), (1998) 9-26. “The Jug and Lituus on Roman Republican Coin Types: Ritual Symbols and Political Power,” Phoenix , 51 (1997) 170-189. “Catiline and the Crisis of 63-60 B.C.: The Italian Perspective,” Latomus 54 (1995) 62-78. + View more Courses Classical Studies 17: History of the Roman Republic Classical Studies 85: Independent Reading and Research Classical Studies 87: Thesis Greek 85: Independent Reading and Research Greek 87: Thesis Latin 1.3: Introductory Latin Latin 85: Independent Reading and Research Latin 87: Thesis + View more Related Links Lexicography Art to Artifact Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback