Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Rome Fall 2017 Foreign Study Program Blog Share Rome Foreign Study Program Students interested in going to Italy are invited to consider the new combined Greece and Rome FSP. By means of extensive field trips throughout the Italian peninsula (e.g., Latium, Tuscany, Campania, Umbria), students engage in a systematic investigation of the sites, monuments, and artifacts of the Etruscan, Roman, and paleo-Christian cultures of Italy under the direction of Dartmouth faculty members. PreviousNext Details The aim of the program is to develop a coherent understanding of the processes of origin and growth, conflict and change in ancient Italy. To this end, the monuments of post-Classical Italy are also examined whenever possible, so that students may begin to understand the profound and continuing influence of ancient Italic cultures upon the development of western Europe. The curriculum embraces architecture, the visual arts, history, religion and the basic techniques of archeological analysis. Students learn to see and understand the Roman world in its own context through informal lectures and discussion in situ, under the open sky. The academic requirements consist of short weekly papers, oral reports, and an optional independent project. Program Terms: Fall This program is currently not accepting applications. Restrictions: Dartmouth applicants only Lodging Options: Flat/Apartment, Hotel Enrollment: 15 Course of Study: FSP Dates / Deadlines Please go to the following websites for more information: http://dartmouth.edu/education/undergraduate-experience/study-abroad-and-campus The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education Faculty Director 2019 Fall: Roberta Stewart Lodging In Rome and in the field, apartment and/or hotel accommodations are arranged for the group. Students are responsible for their own meals; some breakfasts and special dinners will be arranged in advance by the faculty directors. Curriculum Classical Studies 30.90: Classical Art and Archaeology: Study Abroad Classical Studies 30.91: Classical Art and Archaeology: Study Abroad Classical Studies 31.90: Ancient History: Study Abroad Prerequisites A grade of B- or better in two of the following: Classical Studies 17. Roman History: The Republic Classical Studies 18 . History of the Roman Empire: Roman Principate to Christian Empire Classical Studies 24. Etruscan and Early Roman Archaeology: The Rise of Rome Classical Studies 25. Early Roman Imperial Archaeology: The First Emperors Classical Studies 26. Later Roman Imperial Archaeology: The Golden Age and Beyond Italian 1. Introductory Italian (or its equivalent) NOTE: Students will be expected to have elementary reading and speaking knowledge of Italian. Please go to this year's Rome FSP blog for current updates. Tuition & Fees The fees charged by the College for a Dartmouth-sponsored off-campus term of study include regular tuition charges for a term at Dartmouth, as well as the specific costs established for each off-campus study locale. In many programs, the room and board costs tend to be higher than for a term in Hanover. You can view a budget sheet for this program by clicking here. The cost of transportation to and from the site is the responsibility of the student. Financial Aid In order that all qualified Dartmouth undergraduate students may have the opportunity to take part in off-campus programs, the College endeavors to adjust its normal financial aid awards for students already receiving aid. Tuition and expected family contribution for Dartmouth's off-campus programs are the same as for an on-campus term. Assistance is available to meet extra costs associated with off-campus programs, including airfare. Half of any extra cost is met with additional Dartmouth scholarship; loan assistance is offered for the other half. Loan assistance is also offered to replace the employment that would normally be included in an on-campus term. Although financial aid recipients are given aid to cover all of the required costs of the program, students are responsible for purchasing their own plane ticket and, on some programs, meals. Often this means that part of the expected family contribution is used towards these costs rather than for tuition. Archive See photos from previous Rome FSP's Rome Fall 2017 Foreign Study Program Rome Fall 2015 Foreign Study Program Rome Fall 2013 Foreign Study Program Rome Fall 2011 Foreign Study Program Rome Fall 2007 Foreign Study Program Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback