Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Julie Hruby |Assistant Professor of Classical Studies Julie Hruby received her B.A. with a triple major in Art History, Classical Studies (with Honors), and Classical Languages, magna cum laude from Duke University. She received her M.A. and Ph.D in Aegean Prehistory from the University of Cincinnati. Contact Julie.A.Hruby@Dartmouth.edu 310 Reed Hall HB 6086 Areas of Expertise Aegean Bronze Age /Ancient craft production and producers (ceramic, stone, textile) /Food, cuisine, and feasting /Ancient gender and class structures /Archaeological fingerprints Selected Publications From Cooking Vessels to Cultural Practices in the Late Bronze Age Aegean, edited by Julie Hruby and Debra Trusty. Oxford: Oxbow Press, 2017. "Identifying Haute Cuisine." In From Cooking Vessels to Cultural Practices in the Late Bronze Age Aegean, edited by Julie Hruby and Debra Trusty, coauthored with Debra Trusty, 15-26. Oxford: Oxbow Press, 2017. "Approaches to Bronze Age Greek Cooking Vessels." In From Cooking Vessels to Cultural Practices in the Late Bronze Age Aegean, edited by Julie Hruby and Debra Trusty, coauthored with Debra Trusty, 1-5. Oxford: Oxbow Press, 2017. “Moving from Ancient Typology to an Understanding of the Causes of Variability: A Mycenaean Case Study.” In Understanding Standardization and Variation in Mediterranean Ceramics: Mid 2nd to Late 1st Millennium BC, edited by Antonis Kotsonas, 49-58. Leuven: Peeters, 2014. “The Palace of Nestor, Craft Production, and Mechanisms for the Transfer of Goods,” American Journal of Archaeology 117 (2013): 423-427. “Identity and the Visual Identification of Seals.” In KOSMOS: Jewellery, Adornment and Textiles in the Aegean Bronze Age, Proceedings of the 13th International Aegean Conference/13e Recontre égéenne internationale, University of Copenhagen, 23 April 2010, edited by M.-L. Nosch and Robert Laffineur, 389-395 with plate LXXXI. Liège and Austin: Université de Liège, Histoire de l’art et archéologie de la Grèce antique and University of Texas at Austin, Program in Aegean Scripts and Prehistory, Aegaeum 33, 2012. Book review: American Journal of Archaeology 122, April 2018: “The Minnesota Pylos Project, 1990-98, edited by Frederick A. Cooper and Diane Fortenberry (BAR-IS 2856). Pp. 426. BAR Publishing, Oxford 2017.” https://www.ajaonline.org/book-review/3641. + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback