Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Language Study -- Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Culminating Experience Share Fall 2022 Fall 2022 CLST 5 The Heroic Vision: Epics of Greece and Rome Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, Vergil's Aeneid, and Ovid's Metamorphoses are among the best known and most influential works to survive from the ancient world. Yet as products of societies vastly different from our own, they remain challengingly unfamiliar. This course offers the chance to study these four epics in their entirety, together with the Argonautica of Apollonius of Rhodes and extensive selections from Lucrfetius' De Rerum Natura. Emphasis will be placed on the historical and cultural contexts in which the poems were produced and on how each poet uses the works of his predecessors to define his own place in the epic tradition. LIT, W. Foxley. 11 CLST 10.03 Mind, Heart, Brain Considers some of the earlest recorded theories of human and animal psychology worked out in Greco-Roman antiquity. What physical substances and/or bodily organs give rise to the characteristic functions of living things, such as sense-perception, self-movement, and self-awareness? How it is that human beings are capable of concept-formation, reasoning, memory, and emotion, and to what extent are these capacities also present in non-human aniimals? Is the mind-stuff radically distinct from the body and its afflictions, or initmately bound to it? Students work collaboratively to develop their own analyses of these and related issues in a range of philosophical, scientific, and medical texts from both Greece and Rome. TMV, W. Graver. 2 CLST 18 History of the Roman Empire: Roman Principate to Christian Empire This course is designed to survey the major events in the history of Rome from 31 B.C. (Octavian/Augustus' success at the battle of Actium) through the accession and rule of Septimius Severus. During this period, the Roman empire (signifying the territorial extent conquered by Roman armies and administered by Roman officials) became a political community extending throughout the Mediterranean and northwards into Europe as far as Scotland. This course considers the logic of the Roman system: the mechanisms promoting the political identity of diverse peoples as Roman, and the endurance of local traditions within the Roman world; the reasoning whereby the overarching leadership of a single individual was conceived as necessary and good, and the evolving relationship between the princeps and the Roman senatorial aristocracy with a tradition of competitive participation and self identity in politics at Rome; the definition of the Roman frontiers and the role of the army in the assimilation of non-Roman peoples. INT or SOC, W Stewart. 10 GRK 10 Readings in Greek Prose and Poetry For who have aleady studied the basics of the language. Readings drawn from Greek tragedy will illustrate foundational concepts of the culture. LIT, W - Tell - 9L GRK 20 Homer's Iliad In this class, we will read four to five books of the Iliad in Greek and the remaining books in translation. We will focus on learning how to read Homeric Greek with accuracy and speed, and we will also learn how to scan hexameter. In addition, we will explore some of the larger interpretive issues surrounding the poem and its composition, and in so doing we will read key contributions of contemporary scholarship. In class, students will practice close readings and literary analysis, especially when considering the Iliad's character, style, and narrative structure. LIT, W- Tell - 12 LAT 1 Introductory Latin I A rapid introduction to the Latin language through reading passages of gradually increasing difficulty, with an introduction to the history and culture of Pompeii and Roman Egypt in the first century AD. course flyer - Foxley, staff - 9L, 10, 2 LAT 3 Intermediate Latin Completes the introduction to Latin grammar and syntax, then moves into unadapted selections from Pliny, Catullus, Ovid, and other Roman authors. Satisfies the College language requirement. Lynn, staff - 9L, 2 LAT 10.01 Reading Latin Texts: Literature and the Romans Covers essential elements of Roman literary culture and its academic study today: literacy, book production, textual transmission, and the nature of literature. Also introduces library resources, including illuminated manuscripts in Dartmouth's collection. LIT, W. 2 LAT 23 Roman Drama Reading ancient drama allows us to consider the function of artistic production to engage with challenging political and social questions. The class will read from the comedies of Plautus and Terence and/or the tragedies of Seneca, and will explore features of the comic and/or tragic genre. Latin readings may be combined with one or more Greek plays read in translation. LIT, W. Glauthier. 10A Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback