Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Language Study -- Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Culminating Experience Share Spring 2022 Spring 2022 CLST 3 Reason and the Good Life: Socrates to Epictetus An introduction to philosophical thought in antiquity, especially that of Socrates, Epicurus, and the Stoics. We will concentrate especially on ethical questions; e.g. what kind of life is best for humans to pursue, how thoughtful persons should weigh the potentially competing claims of reason, pleasure, and emotion; and on how intellectual activity was perceived at Athens and at Rome. TMV, W. Graver. 11 CLST 10.12 The End of the World: Jewish and Christian Apocalyptic Literature in the Hellenistic Era The Hellenistic era was a period of remarkable theological and literary creativity within the Jewish and Christian communities, including the development of a unique genre, apocalyptic literature. Apocalyptic texts, which portend a catastrophic end to the world, are notoriously difficult to interpret due to their use of fantastical imagery and often cryptic symbolism. In this class we will explore several texts in depth, including portions of Daniel from the Hebrew scriptures, the Book of Enoch from the Maccabean period, the Apocalypse of John (Revelation) from the Christian scriptures, and the 2nd century Christian text Apocalypse of Peter. In addition to learning how to read apocalyptic literature, we will examine the socio-historical context of these texts, their relationship to communities under duress and how they have been reimagined by later generations. TMV, W. Whaley. 2 CLST 11.13 Democracy: Ancient to Modern This course comprises four parts. In the first, we will familiarize ourselves with the concept of democracy, as well as the historical context in which democracy first emerged. In part two, we will explore the history of democracy at ancient Athens, with an emphasis on the development and functioning of democratic institutions, democratic ideology, and the exploitation by democracies of women, slaves, and foreigners. In part three, we will consider democracies outside Athens, as well as non-democratic regime types, such as oligarchy, tyranny, and the "Lycurgan" constitution at Sparta. In part four, we will turn our attention to the modern era. More specifically, we will compare Greek democracies to subsequent institutions that have been described as democratic (e.g., New England town hall meetings, the United States of America, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo); examine the impact of Greek democracy on the development of modern political thought. INT or SOC, W. Martin. 10 CLST 14 Greek History: Archaic and Classical Greece This course is designed to survey the major events in the history of ancient Greece from c.1600 B.C. (the emergence of palatial culture in the Mycenaean World) to 404 B.C. (the end of the Peloponnesian War). During this period, the Greeks formed individual communities and developed unique political structures, spread their culture, language, and religion throughout the Mediterranean, invented democracy (at Athens) and enshrined these values in their art and literature. This course will cover the physical setting of and the archaic legacy to the classical city-state, its economy, its civic and religious institutions, the waging of war between cities, the occurrence and ancient analysis of conflict within the city, and the public and private lives of its citizens and less well-known classes, such as women, children, slaves, etc. SOC, W. Martin. 12 CLST 30.01, 30.02, 31 Foreign Study in Greece and Rome Ulrich, Hruby GRK 1.02/3.02 Intensive Greek A double course (two time slots) covering both GRK 1 and GRK 3 in a single term. Introduces all the basics of grammar and syntax and provides a gradual introduction to the reading of continuous texts. Satisfies the College language requirement. Tell. 9L, 12 GRK 3 Intermediate Greek Continued study of Greek grammar and syntax and an introduction to reading in prose authors. Satisfies the College language requirement. Whaley. 9L GRK 30.07 The End of the World Studies Jewish and Christian apocalyptic literature produced in the Hellenistic era. These extraordinary texts, which portend a catastrophic end to the world, are notoriously difficult to interpret due to their fantastical imagery and cryptic symbolism. We will also examine the relationship of these texts to communities under duress. TMV, W. TMV, W. Whaley. 2 LAT 2 Introductory Latin II Continues the study of the Latin language, with a look at the history and culture of Roman Britain and the city of Rome in the first century AD. Includes an introduction to Roman funerary inscriptions, curse tablets, and coins. Lynn. 9L LAT 3 Intermediate Latin Completes the introduction to Latin grammar and syntax, then moves into unadapted selections from Pliny, Catullus, Ovid, and other Roman authors. Satisfies the College language requirement. Walker, Lynn, Glauthier. 9L, 10, 2 LAT 18.02 Intermediate Topics: Catullus Identical with LAT 21, but with expectations and requirements adjusted to meet the needs of intermediate Latin students. LIT, W. Glauthier. 10A LAT 21 Love Poetry: Catullus The poems of Catullus have been delighting, moving, and frequently shocking readers since he wrote them in the final years of the Roman republic. We will read extensively from this fascinating body of work, paying close attention to language and style. Significant themes will include love, friendship, obscenity, invective, gender, sexuality, poetics, and programmatics. In addition, we will study the literary culture of the late Republic and explore recent critical approaches to Catullus. course flyer LIT, W. Glauthier. 10A Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback