Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Language Study -- Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Culminating Experience Share Winter 2023 Winter 2023 CLST 01.03 Antiquity Today The Romans had the Colosseum, the Greeks had the dramatic stage. What does the different ways they staged violence tell us about the Romans and the Greeks? Topics we cover include Greek and Roman attitudes toward violence, their approaches to classifying and evaluating sexual behaviors, their religious beliefs, and the ways they governed their societies. In all cases we will use what we learn about the Greek and Roman ways of doing things to help think about our own practices and predilections. There are no pre-requisites for this course, and you need not have completed any prior course work on the ancient world. CI. Christesen. 2 CLST 06 Introduction to Classical Archaeology Introduces the basic methods and principles of Classical archaeology. Students will acquire an appreciation of the development of material culture in the Mediterranean world from prehistory to the collapse of the Roman Empire. INT or ART, W. course flyer Hruby - 2 CLST 10.14 Plato's Symposium. A small-enrollment seminar offering an introduction to Plato's thought and to a rich vein of material illustrating Greek attitudes and assumptions on erotic love for both sexes. The primary text is Plato's Symposium, which we will study in translation while learning the Greek alphabet and a few key vocabulary items in Greek. As time allows during the term, we will explore some of the rich body of evidence that exists in Greek poetry, oratory, and the visual arts either confirming or contradicting the impression given by Plato. TMV, W. Graver. 10 CLST 15 Alexander the Great and the Macedonian Kings This course has two aims: (1) to establish a basic understanding of the history of Alexander the Great and of Greek-speaking peoples in the eastern Mediterranean during the fourth through first centuries BCE and (2) to explore the cultural, military, political, and economic innovations of what was a singular age of experimentation. INT or SOC, W. Christesen. 11 CLST 19 Methods and Theory in Ancient History This course is designed to introduce the student to the various types of documentary evidence available to the ancient historian and to the various perspectives for framing and answering historical questions. We consider the interpretive methodologies for each type of document (coin, inscription, papyrus) as well as the particular historical context in which these documents were produced. Topics include the function of coinage and economic thinking in the ancient world and the political significance of the publication of law. The final weeks of the term allow for in-depth consideration of a specific problem in ancient history. SOC, W. Stewart. 12 GRK 1 Introductory Ancient Greek Study of Greek grammar, syntax, and vocabulary accompanied by reading of simple Greek prose selections. This course is designed to be followed immediately by GRK 3 in a two-term sequence. Foxley. 9L GRK 28 Plato A small-enrollment seminar offering an introduction to Plato's thought and to a rich vein of material illustrating Greek attitudes and assumptions on erotic love for both sexes. The primary text is Plato's Symposium. As time allows during the term, we will explore some of the rich body of evidence that exists in Greek poetry, oratory, and the visual arts either confirming or contradicting the impression given by Plato. TMV, W Graver. 10 LAT 1 Introductory Latin I A rapid introduction to the Latin language through reading passages of gradually increasing difficulty, with an introduction to the history and culture of Pompeii and Roman Egypt in the first century AD. course flier. Staff. 9L LAT 2 Introductory Latin II - Continues the study of the Latin language, with a look at the history and culture of Roman Britain and the city of Rome in the first century AD. Includes an introduction to Roman funerary inscriptions, curse tablets, and coins. Lynn, Foxley, staff. 9L, 10, 2 LAT 10 Reading Latin Texts An introduction to continuous readings of Latin prose and poetry in combination with a review of Latin grammar. Students develop the necessary language and study skills to allow them to take more advanced Latin courses. LIT, W. Glauthier. 10 LAT 33 The Literature of Science The ancient Greeks and Romans studied natural phenomena passionately and considered the pursuit of scientific knowledge a mind-transforming experience that was sublime and potentially even sacred. This class will study one or more key texts in the Roman scientific tradition. Readings will be drawn from poets, such as Lucretius and Manilius, and/or prose authors, like Seneca and the Elder Pliny. Potential topics include ancient physics, astronomy, meteorology, and natural history. Glauthier. 10A Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback