Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Department of Classics myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link What is Classics? Select to follow link Information about the Classics Program Classical Humanities and Ancient History Greek & Roman Art, Archaeology, and Museum Studies Ancient Greek Language and Literature Latin Language and Literature The Wilcox Classical Museum Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Contact Undergraduate Select to follow link BA/BGS Select to follow link Classical Antiquity Select to follow link Overview Tracks Careers Curriculum Minor Classical Language Select to follow link Overview Careers Curriculum Latin Ancient Greek Minor Departmental Honors Minor Select to follow link Overview Tracks Curriculum Careers Combined BA/MA Select to follow link Overview Admission Curriculum Non-Majors Advising Student Achievements Select to follow link Undergraduate Research KU Core Language Placement and Proficiency Select to follow link Latin Placement Language Proficiency Graduate Select to follow link MA Program Select to follow link Overview Admissions Art and Archaeology Curriculum Classical Languages Curriculum Graduate Handbook Careers Graduate Teaching Master's Program Profile Graduate Student Testimonials Student Achievements Select to follow link Employment and Further Studies Other Achievements Non-Degree-Seeking (NDS) Status Select to follow link Overview Admissions Combined BA/MA Graduate Advising Prospective Students Select to follow link Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate - Testimonials Graduate - Testimonials People Select to follow link Department Administrators Faculty Graduate Students Emeriti Faculty Associated Faculty Courses Select to follow link Our Courses Classics (CLSX) Greek (GRK) Latin (LAT) Research and Outreach Select to follow link Rehak Symposium Select to follow link Introduction to the Rehak Symposium Rehak Symposium 2017 Rehak Symposium 2016 Rehak Symposium 2015 Rehak Symposium 2014 Rehak Symposium 2013 Rehak Symposium 2012 Rehak Symposium 2011 Rehak Symposium 2010 Rehak Symposium 2009 Rehak Symposium 2008 Rehak Symposium 2007 Rehak Symposium 2006 Phillips Colloquium Faculty Books Scholarships, Prizes, and Study Abroad Select to follow link Scholarships, Awards, Prizes Classics for Everyone Essay Contest Study Abroad Alumni / Giving to Classics News and Events Select to follow link Department Newsletter Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Department of Classics Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Welcome to the Department of Classics Classics is the gateway to the people, languages, cultures, and legacies of the ancient Greek and Roman worlds. Are you intrigued by the myths of Heracles and Odysseus, Romulus and Remus? Or are you fascinated by Sappho, Socrates, Caesar, and Cleopatra? Do you want to unearth the past, walk the streets of Pompeii, meet the Olympian gods, and explore the world of early Christianity? Or are you looking to delve into some of the greatest works of philosophy and to examine the ancient models of the US Constitution? Then Classics is for you! Useful Links Announcements The Wilcox Classical Museum Contact Us Why Classics? What is Classics? Classics is the integrated study of ancient Greek and Roman civilization through its languages, its literature, and its artistic and archaeological remains. Learn more about Classics Faculty Our faculty offer award-winning teaching, mentoring, and research. Meet our Faculty Student Testimonials Meet the students in our department and learn more about their interests. Meet our students Our courses We offer a broad range of courses in the languages, literatures, and material cultures of ancient Greece and Rome. Learn more about our courses Our Undergraduate Program The Department of Classics offers BA and BGS degrees as well as Minors in Classical Languages and Classical Antiquity. Major in Classical Languages Major in Classical Antiquity Minor in Classical Languages/Classical Antiquity Information on our MA Program The Department of Classics offers advanced course work in the ancient civilizations of Greece and Rome. Students are expected to study the classical languages (Greek and Latin) and literatures as well as the art and archaeological remains of the Greek and Roman worlds. MA Combined BA/MA Non-degree-seeking Status Spotlights on the KU Classics department Reimagining the Wilcox Classical Museum The Wilcox Classical Museum is getting a redesign! The Wilcox Classical Museum New Faculty Book Prof Jendza's new book, “Paracomedy: Appropriations of Comedy in Greek Tragedy”, has just been published. New book announcement Classics for Everyone Essay Contest Luca StockWil won the 2021 Classics for Everyone Essay Contest. Read Luca's essay here Our CoursesView as gallery page Our department offers undergraduate and graduate courses in Greek and Roman Literature and Culture, Ancient History, Greek and Roman Art and Archaeology, and the Ancient Greek and Latin languages. Find out more by clicking on the photos to the right! Greek & Roman Art, Archaeology, and Museum Studies Courses Learn more about the visual and material culture of the ancient world! Classical Humanities and Ancient History Courses Learn more about the culture and history of Ancient Greece and Rome, and read their greatest texts in English translation! Latin Language and Literature Courses Learn to read the texts of Ancient Rome! Greek Language and Literature Courses Learn to read the texts of Ancient Greece! Study Abroad Courses Study abroad courses offer the opportunity to study the Ancient Greek and Roman cultures in their original context! Previous Next Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Classics Department is committed to fostering greater multicultural awareness and inclusion, and helping students with different backgrounds and needs to succeed. Find out more about DEI in Classics Upcoming Events See all events 1021 Wescoe Hall 1445 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045-7590 classics@ku.edu 785-864-3153 facebook instagram twitter The Wilcox Classical Museum Current Courses Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.