Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Language Study -- Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Culminating Experience Share Fall 2021 Fall 2021 CLST 01.03 Antiquity Today The Romans had the Colosseum, the Greeks had the dramatic stage. What does the different ways they staged violence tell us about the Romans and the Greeks? Topics we cover include Greek and Roman attitudes toward violence, their approaches to classifying and evaluating sexual behaviors, their religious beliefs, and the ways they governed their societies. In all cases we will use what we learn about the Greek and Roman ways of doing things to help think about our own practices and predilections. There are no pre-requisites for this course, and you need not have completed any prior course work on the ancient world. CI. Christesen. 11 CLST 06 Introduction to Classical Archaeology Introduces the basic methods and principles of Classical archaeology. Students will acquire an appreciation of the development of material culture in the Mediterranean world from prehistory to the collapse of the Roman Empire. INT or ART, W. course flyer Hruby - 11 CLST 11.02 Rediscovering Sparta The city-state of Sparta, which played a leading role in the Greek world for centuries, attracted a great deal of attention in ancient times and continues to exercise a hold on the imagination of scholars and non-scholars alike. This course explores the birth, rise, and fall of the Spartan state, from its foundation c. 1000 BCE to 371 BCE and the disastrous defeat at Leuctra, which effectively ended Spartan hegemony. We will pay careful attention to both the relevant literary sources and to the extant remains of Spartan material culture, such as pottery and figurines; hence this course draws on the subject matter and methodologies typically associated with both history and archaeology. TAS, W. Christesen. 2 CLST 12.03 Who Owns the Past? Modern archaeology grew out of antiquarianism, imperialism, and the attempts of early collectors and scholars to look to the past for aesthetics, to construct identities, and to satisfy their curiosities. This course examines how these legacies influence contemporary archaeology, museum practices, and policies to manage cultural heritage. The central question will be explored utilizing the perspectives of the relevant actors: archaeologists, collectors, museums, developers, descendant communities, national and local governments, and the tourism industry. SOC, CI. course flyer Hruby, Casana 2 CLST 17 Roman History: The Republic This course surveys the history of the Roman people from 753 (traditional date of the founding of Rome) to 44 B.C. (the assassination of Julius Caesar). Topics include the development of Roman law, the conquest of all lands bordering on the Mediterranean, and the civil wars that destroyed Republican government. Particular emphasis is placed on the Roman political community: the political, religious and social factors that influenced the definition of the Roman aristocracy in the fourth century, the institutions that maintained the ascendancy of the elite, the military and political values inherent in the citizenship, the social and political mechanisms that militated against civil dissent, and the role of political values in the eventual destruction of Republican government from within. SOC, W Stewart. 10 GRK 10 Readings in Greek Prose and Poetry For who have aleady studied the basics of the language. Readings drawn from Greek tragedy will illustrate foundational concepts of the culture. LIT, W - Tell - 9L GRK 21 Homer's Odyssey In this class, we will read four to five books of the Odyssey in Greek and the remaining books in translation. We will focus on learning how to read Homeric Greek with accuracy and speed, and we will also learn how to scan hexameter. In addition, we will explore some of the larger interpretive issues surrounding the poem and its composition, and in so doing we will read key contributions of contemporary scholarship. In class, students will practice close readings and literary analysis, especially when considering the Odyssey's character, style, and narrative structure. LIT, W- Tell - 12 LAT 1 Introductory Latin I A rapid introduction to the Latin language through reading passages of gradually increasing difficulty, with an introduction to the history and culture of Pompeii and Roman Egypt in the first century AD. course flyer - Oppen, Walker, Lynn - 9L, 10, 2 LAT 3 Intermediate Latin Completes the introduction to Latin grammar and syntax, then moves into unadapted selections from Pliny, Catullus, Ovid, and other Roman authors. Satisfies the College language requirement. Lynn, Walker - 9L, 2 LAT 15 Literature and the Romans For those who have already begun studying Latin literature. Covers essential elements of Roman literary culture and its academic study today: literacy, book production, textual transmission, and the nature of literature. Also introduces library resources, including illuminated manuscripts in Dartmouth's collection. LIT, W - syllabus - Oppen -12 LAT 20 Latin Epic: Ovid's Metamorphoses Latin readings in from Books 1, 3, and 14 of Ovid's Metamorphoses, and the entire poem in English. Topics for discussion will include myth, sex, gender, genre, metapoetics, intertextuality, politics, and propaganda. We will think about Ovid's place in Augustan culture and Latin literary history, and we will explore recent critical approaches as well as the impact of Ovid's poem on the history of Western (and potentially non-Western) art and literature, from the Middle Ages into the 21st century. LIT, W . Glauthier. 10A Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback