Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Course Offerings by Term Classical Studies Courses Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Culminating Experience Share Latin classes Foundations of Latin LAT 1 - Introductory Latin I A rapid introduction to the Latin language through reading passages of gradually increasing difficulty, with an introduction to the history and culture of Pompeii and Roman Egypt in the first century AD. - course flyer LAT 2 Introductory Latin II Continues the study of the Latin language, with a look at the history and culture of Roman Britain and the city of Rome in the first century AD. Includes an introduction to Roman funerary inscriptions, curse tablets, and coins. LAT 3 Intermediate Latin Completes the introduction to Latin grammar and syntax, then moves into unadapted selections from Pliny, Catullus, Ovid, and other Roman authors. Satisfies the College language requirement. Middle-Level Classes LAT 10: Reading Latin Texts An introduction to continuous readings of Latin prose and poetry in combination with a review of Latin grammar. Students develop the necessary language and study skills to allow them to take more advanced Latin courses. LIT, W LAT 15: Literature and the Romans For those who have already begun studying Latin literature. Covers essential elements of Roman literary culture and its academic study today: literacy, book production, textual transmission, and the nature of literature. Also introduces library resources, including illuminated manuscripts in Dartmouth's collection. LIT, W LAT 18 Intermediate Topics in Latin Meets conjointly with an upper-division course and shares much of its content, but with different requirements and assessments. Typically students taking the course at the intermediate level have shorter reading assignments in the original language and a greater emphasis on language development. For instance, they may take a language test instead of writing the research paper at the end of the term. Upper-level classes LAT 20 Latin Epic Latin readings in from Books 1, 3, and 14 of Ovid's Metamorphoses, and the entire poem in English. Topics for discussion will include myth, sex, gender, genre, metapoetics, intertextuality, politics, and propaganda. We will think about Ovid's place in Augustan culture and Latin literary history, and we will explore recent critical approaches as well as the impact of Ovid's poem on the history of Western (and potentially non-Western) art and literature, from the Middle Ages into the 21st century. LIT, W LAT 21 Love Poetry An exploration of the rich tradition of amatory verse at Rome. Readings may come from the love-elegists Tibullus, Propertius, and Ovid, and/or other poets, including Catullus and Horace. Topics to be considered include the art of persuasion in erotic literature; Roman attitudes towards gender, sexuality, and desire; and the emergence and development of Augustan culture. LIT, W. LAT 23 Roman Drama Reading ancient drama allows us to consider the function of artistic production to engage with challenging political and social questions. The class will read from the comedies of Plautus and Terence and/or the tragedies of Seneca, and will explore features of the comic and/or tragic genre. Latin readings may be combined with one or more Greek plays read in translation. LIT, W LAT 25 Roman Historical Writing Readings drawn from the rich tradition of Roman historical writing. Selected readings from the works of Caesar, Sallust, Livy, and/or Tacitus will enable the class to think about the character of Latin prose writing in different periods and about the strategies of historians for offering critique and/or affirmation of those in power. SOC, W LAT 27 Mortality and Immortality in Roman Philosophy Readings from Cicero and Lucretius explore opposite answers to a persistent question of Roman philosophy: does any part of a person live on after death? Relatedly, we assess both Greek and Roman positions on the permissibility of suicide. TMV LAT 28 Medieval Latin Samples the immense riches of medieval Latin literature in a variety of genres: prose narrative (e.g. Augustine's Confessions or the autobiographical experiments of Hildegard or Héloïse and Abelard) epics and mock-epics, courtly romance, lyric poetry and song-lyrics. Considers both the reception of classical genres and innovations by medieval writers. Students will have opportunities to study manuscript materials in the Special Collections Library. LIT LAT 29 Courtroom Speech In 66 BCE, Cicero defended Aulus Cluentius on a charge of murdering his stepfather. His defense of his client provides a masterly example of courtroom defense strategies (the mustering of evidence, witness testimony, manipulation of legal procedures) and the courtroom story-telling that created presumptive realities of "wrong" and "truth," of "innocence" or "guilt." The speech Pro Cluentio thus affords insight into questions of Roman courtroom procedure and judicial integrity, of the assimilation of Italians within the Roman social and political community and access to Roman law, and of the social expectations of gender as a rhetorical strategy. SOC LAT 30 Topics in Latin Literature Representative texts and topics that highlight the complex relationship between Greek and Latin literature. Offerings vary from year to year to allow opportunities to study subject matter such as the ancient novels and Roman reinterpretations of Greek myth. Emphasis is placed on writing and research skills as well as the development of reading ability in Latin. LAT 31 The Italian Countryside The environmental concerns of our own time find a counterpart in the Roman fascination with the beauty and fragility of the rural landscape and natural world. Readings may come from pastoral poetry, represented especially by Vergil's Eclogues; the literature of farming and agriculture, including Vergil's Georgics; and related themes in works by Varro, Horace, Tibullus, and others. LAT 32 The Poetry Book Studies the development of the carefully crafted and deliberately arranged book of poetry at Rome, including one complete libellus in Latin with the possibility of additional examples in translation. Authors that may be read include Vergil, Horace, Propertius, Ovid, Statius, and Martial. As time allows, the class will also explore later examples of book design and artistry, drawing on Dartmouth's collection of rare books. LAT 33 The Literature of Science The ancient Greeks and Romans studied natural phenomena passionately and considered the pursuit of scientific knowledge a mind-transforming experience that was sublime and potentially even sacred. This class will study one or more key texts in the Roman scientific tradition. Readings will be drawn from poets, such as Lucretius and Manilius, and/or prose authors, like Seneca and the Elder Pliny. Potential topics include ancient physics, astronomy, meteorology, and natural history. TMV, W LAT 34 Letter-writing in the Roman World The Romans considered letter-writing an important skill and adapted the letter form to many purposes: maintaining friendship, promoting political ends, consolation, education, artistry, and sheer entertainment. Readings will come from the prose letters of Cicero, Seneca, or Pliny; personal notes and letters recovered from archaeological sites; and/or the verse epistles of Ovid or Horace. LAT 35 Satire and Humor Basically a humorous monologue on contemporary topics, verse satire is the one kind of writing the Romans claimed as entirely their own. The class will read some of the best-known examples by Horace and Juvenal and may also explore other examples of Roman humor: epigrams by Catullus or Martial, Seneca's Pumpkinification, Petronius's Satyricon. LIT, W Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback