Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Forward Arrow Academics Communication School of Nursing Parks, Recreation & Tourism Management Political Science Psychology Public Health Sciences Sociology, Anthropology & Criminal Justice Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Prospective Students Academic Advising Forward Arrow Academic Advising Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ FAQ Back Arrow Back Student Resources Student Advisory Board Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research FoodFORWARD 2022 Research Symposium Research Support Center Workshops and Seminars Back Arrow Back Centers & Institutes Forward Arrow Centers & Institutes Center for Research on Health Disparities Clemson Rural Health Clinical Learning Research Center Human Factors Institute Institute for Engaged Aging Institute on Family and Neighborhood Life Institute for Parks Outdoor Lab Social Media Listening Center Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About About the Dean Leadership Building Healthy Communities Inclusive Excellence Alumni and Friends Honors and Awards Contact Us Faculty and Staff Resources Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics show submenu for Academics Communication School of Nursing Parks, Recreation & Tourism Management Political Science Psychology Public Health Sciences Sociology, Anthropology & Criminal Justice Students show submenu for Students Prospective Students Academic Advising show submenu for Academic Advising Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ Student Resources Student Advisory Board Research show submenu for Research FoodFORWARD 2022 Research Symposium Research Support Center Workshops and Seminars Centers & Institutes show submenu for Centers & Institutes Center for Research on Health Disparities Clemson Rural Health Clinical Learning Research Center Human Factors Institute Institute for Engaged Aging Institute on Family and Neighborhood Life Institute for Parks Outdoor Lab Social Media Listening Center About show submenu for About About the Dean Leadership Building Healthy Communities Inclusive Excellence Alumni and Friends Honors and Awards Contact Us Faculty and Staff Resources Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences About Current: About Faculty and Staff Profile Andrew Pyle Associate Professor Office: Strode 415 Phone: 864-656-1567 Email: APYLE@clemson.edu Educational Background Ph.D. Communication George Mason University 2014 M.A. Applied Communication University of Arkansas at Little Rock 2011 B.A. Communication Studies; Russian Language Ouachita Baptist University 2009 Courses Taught HON 2020 Civil Discourse COMM 1800 Introduction to Intercultural Communication COMM 2010 Introduction to Communication COMM 3550 Principles of Public Relations COMM 3560 Crisis Communication COMM 3570 Public Relations Writing COMM 4560 Public Relations for Associations and Nonprofits COMM 4800 Intercultural Communication COMM 4950 Capstone: Creating a Crisis Plan COMM 4950 Capstone: Communication & Civil Discourse COMM 8010 (Graduate) Communication Theory I COMM 8560 Trends in Public Relations Research & Theory Profile Dr. Andrew S. Pyle is an Associate Professor in the Department of Communication. He completed his PhD in Communication at George Mason University, and his MA in Applied Communication from the University of Arkansas at Little Rock. His research focuses on the intersection of crisis communication and intercultural communication. He is also interested in the ways that organizations employ social media to manage crisis communication. He also studies the scholarship of teaching and learning, seeking methods for enhancing the classroom experience for students and faculty alike. Dr. Pyle is teaching courses in the areas of Public Relations and Crisis Communication. He is an active member of the Southern States Communication Association and the Public Relations Society of America. He is also excited to tell you more about the study abroad program he has helped develop - check out the website link below to see more about the program. Starting in the summer of 2019 he and his family are also part of the faculty-in-residence program. They live in Mickel Hall (formerly Stadium Suites) on campus and work with residents to build community. Research Interests Intercultural Crisis Communication Social Media and Crisis Communication Public Relations Scholarship of Teaching and Learning Research Publications Pyle, A. S., Morgoch, M. L., & Boatwright, B. C. (In Press). SnowedOut Atlanta: Examining Digital Emergence on Facebook during a Crisis. Journal of Contingencies and Crisis Management. doi:10.1111/1468-5973.12274 Pyle, A. S., Fuller, R. P., & Ulmer, R. R. (In press). Discourse of Renewal: State of the discipline and a vision for the future. In H. D. O’Hair & M. J. O’Hair (Eds.), Handbook of applied communication research. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley. Rowan, K. E., & Pyle, A. S. (In press). Heuristics for Communicating Science, Risk, and Crisis: Encouraging Guided Inquiry in Challenging Rhetorical Situations. In D. Gruber & L. Thomas (Eds.), Routledge Handbook of Language and Science. New York: Routledge. Pyle, A. S. (2019). Fixing the SIC: Preventing and managing self-inflicted crises. In A. H. Normore, L. W. Long, & M. Javidi (Eds.), Handbook of research on strategic communication, leadership and conflict management in modern organizations. Hershey, PA: IGI Global. doi:10.4018/978-1-5225-8516-9.ch001 Pyle, A. S., Gennett, S. P., & Linvill, D. L. (2019). Run, Hide, Fight: Leveraging Academics to Enhance Emergency Preparedness Training for Active Shooter Events. Proceedings of the International Crisis and Risk Communication Conference, Volume 2 (pp. 51-53). Orlando, FL: Nicholson School of Communication. doi:10.30658/icrcc.2019.15 Pyle, A. S. (2018). Intercultural crisis communication: examining the experiences of crisis sojourners. Journal of Applied Communication Research, 46(3), 388-407. doi:10.1080/00909882.2018.1467031 Pyle, A. S., Linvill, D. L., & Gennett, S. P. (2018). From silence to condemnation: Institutional responses to Executive Order 13769. Public Relations Review. doi:10.1016/j.pubrev.2017.11.002 Pyle, A. S., & Boatwright, B. (2018). Coming Together Around Hashtags: Exploring the Formation of Digital Emergent Citizen Groups. The Journal of Public Interest Communications, 2(1). Pyle, A. S. (2017). Teaching PEACE: A plan for effective crisis communication instruction. Communication Teacher. doi:10.1080/17404622.2017.1372598 Linvill, D. L., & Pyle, A. S. (2017). Inquiry-based civil discourse education. Communication Teacher, 31(4). doi:10.1080/17404622.2017.1358382 Cardwell, L. A., Williams, S. D., & Pyle, A. S. (2017). Corporate public relations dynamics: Internal vs. external stakeholders and the role of the practitioner. Public Relations Review, 43(1), 152-162. doi:10.1016/j.pubrev.2016.11.004 Broeckelman-Post, M. A., & Pyle, A. S. (2017). Public speaking versus hybrid introductory communication courses: Exploring four outcomes. Communication Education, 66(2). doi:10.1080/03634523.2016.1259485 Pyle, A. S. (2016). Surviving the Conflict of Self-Inflicted Organizational Crises. In A. Normore, L. Long, & M. Javidi, (Eds.), Handbook of Effective Communication, Leadership and Conflict Resolution. Rowan, K. E., Pyle, A. S., & MacNeil, D. P. (2016). Preparing for the Worst: How to Use Simulations to Enhance Skill Acquisition and Retention. Innovations in Teaching and Learning. Fairfax, VA: Mason Publishing. Ulmer, R. R., & Pyle, A. S. (2016). International organizational crisis communication: A simple rules approach to managing crisis complexity. In A. Schwarz, M. W. Seeger, C. Auer (Eds.), The Handbook of International Crisis Communication Research, 43, 108-118. Zhao, X., Maibach, M., Gandy, J., Witte, H. J., Cullen, H., Klinger, B., Rowan, K. E., Witte, J., & Pyle, A. S. (2013). Climate change education through TV weathercasts: Results of a field experiment. Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, doi 10.1175/BAMS-D-12- 00144.1 Honors and Awards 2019-2020 Faculty Senator of the Year Award 2019 CBSHS Award for Excellence in Service/Outreach 2018 "Best Professor" at Clemson, Tiger Newspaper "Best of Clemson" 2018 Top Paper in the Public Relations Division at the Southern States Communication Association Conf. LinksDeep Work Student Project Page Check out my research College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Copyright © Clemson University College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences | 116 Edwards Hall 864-656-7640 | Email Us | Academic Questions intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson