Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Clemson Alumni Association Home Pause Background Close Accessible Audio Once a Tiger, Always a Tiger. Every Clemson graduate, no matter your job, age or location, has something in common. An unbreakable bond that connects us at every stage of life. The Clemson University Alumni Association exists to bring the Clemson experience to whatever you do and wherever you need us. There’s no better time to explore your 161,500-plus peer network, inspire a new generation and continue to make lasting memories. Learn More Connect with Alumni in Your Area Spread your Clemson passion and meet up with 66-plus local alumni clubs. Gather with the Clemson Family Join Tigers gatherings and move Clemson forward. Discover Your Alumni Network Meet alumni from various industries and tap into the Association’s career resources. Recognize Outstanding Alumni Nominate noteworthy Tigers and find who’s standing out. Make a Difference at Clemson Your investment means so much for the future of Clemson University. Wear the Clemson Ring Join the tradition and order your Clemson Class Ring. Update Your Contact Information Stay connected to Clemson by keeping us connected to you. Update your contact information to start receiving campus updates, events in your local area and ways to come back home to Clemson for events and celebrations! Update your contact information so we can keep you connected to Clemson! Advertising Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info