Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Forward Arrow Academics Communication School of Nursing Parks, Recreation & Tourism Management Political Science Psychology Public Health Sciences Sociology, Anthropology & Criminal Justice Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Prospective Students Academic Advising Forward Arrow Academic Advising Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ FAQ Back Arrow Back Student Resources Student Advisory Board Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research FoodFORWARD 2022 Research Symposium Research Support Center Workshops and Seminars Back Arrow Back Centers & Institutes Forward Arrow Centers & Institutes Center for Research on Health Disparities Clemson Rural Health Clinical Learning Research Center Human Factors Institute Institute for Engaged Aging Institute on Family and Neighborhood Life Institute for Parks Outdoor Lab Social Media Listening Center Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About About the Dean Leadership Building Healthy Communities Inclusive Excellence Alumni and Friends Honors and Awards Contact Us Faculty and Staff Resources Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics show submenu for Academics Communication School of Nursing Parks, Recreation & Tourism Management Political Science Psychology Public Health Sciences Sociology, Anthropology & Criminal Justice Students show submenu for Students Prospective Students Academic Advising show submenu for Academic Advising Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ Student Resources Student Advisory Board Research show submenu for Research FoodFORWARD 2022 Research Symposium Research Support Center Workshops and Seminars Centers & Institutes show submenu for Centers & Institutes Center for Research on Health Disparities Clemson Rural Health Clinical Learning Research Center Human Factors Institute Institute for Engaged Aging Institute on Family and Neighborhood Life Institute for Parks Outdoor Lab Social Media Listening Center About show submenu for About About the Dean Leadership Building Healthy Communities Inclusive Excellence Alumni and Friends Honors and Awards Contact Us Faculty and Staff Resources Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences About Current: About Faculty and Staff Profile James Gilmore Assistant Professor Media & Technology Studies Office: Strode 401 Phone: Email: JNGILMO@clemson.edu Vita: View Personal Website: https://www.jamesngilmore.com Educational Background Ph.D. Communication and Culture Indiana University 2018 M.A. Film and Television University of California, Los Angeles 2013 B.A. Film and Media Studies University of South Carolina 2011 Courses Taught COMM 1070: Media Representations of Science and Technology COMM 2040: Critical-Cultural Communication Theory (no longer offered) COMM 2120: Critical-Cultural Research Methods (no longer offered) COMM 2500: Public Speaking COMM 3310: Media Communication COMM 3650: Critical-Cultural Communication COMM 4020: Mass Communication History and Criticism COMM 4950: Senior Capstone (no longer offered) COMM 4970: Collaborative on Communication and Culture COMM 8020: Communication Theory II (no longer offered) COMM 8030: Survey of Communication Technology Studies (no longer offered) COMM 8230: Seminar in Media & Technology Studies--Communication Infrastructures COMM 8980: Graduate Colloquium Independent studies offered to date: Cultural Studies & Cultural Change Infrastructure and Surveillance Friedrich Kittler and German Media Studies Streaming Media Industries Profile Dr. James N. Gilmore is an Assistant Professor of Media and Technology Studies in the Department of Communication. His work analyzes the cultural politics of media and communication technologies, with a particular interest in how they produce knowledge about individuals. He completed his PhD in Communication and Culture at Indiana University, and his MA in Film and Television at UCLA. Dr. Gilmore advises graduate students on research projects related to issues such as media infrastructures, cultural politics, surveillance, representation, discourse analysis, and popular culture. He teaches undergraduate courses on critical-cultural theory and methods, as well as courses on media and digital culture. He directs the Collaborative on Communication and Culture, a research collaborative for undergraduate and graduate students to work on projects related to cultural criticism across media, technology, and cultural studies. The Collaborative produces a blog and a podcast called Culture Critically (www.culturecritically.com). He is the co-editor of two anthologies: Orson Welles in Focus: Texts and Contexts (co-edited with Dr. Sidney Gottlieb, Indiana University Press, 2018), and Superhero Synergies: Comic Book Characters Go Digital (co-edited with Dr. Matthias Stork, Rowman and Littlefield, 2014). He also co-edited, with Dr. Blake Hallinan, a double issue of Cultural Studies on infrastructural politics (2021). His research has been published in leading journals such as New Media & Society, Cultural Studies, Communication, Culture, & Critique, and Critical Studies in Media Communication. He is available for media comment and interview on issues related to technology and culture, including wearable technologies, data collection practices, digital platforms, and popular culture. Dr. Gilmore has served as an expert source for publications such as Wired, The Verge, and The Observer, as well as interviewed with a number of local radio programs and podcasts. Research Interests My research and writing explore how media technologies act as knowledge machines; how they produce knowledge about individuals, what that knowledge is used to do, and the consequences of those knowledge-generating practices on the level of culture. My work straddles media studies, cultural studies, science/technology studies, and communication. I primarily utilize discourse analysis, interpretive methodologies, and critical theory to trace the cultural politics of a variety of objects, practices, and ideas. My use of critical hermeneutics contextualizes the imaginaries surrounding technical devices and systems within broader historical-social formations. I am also working on a book manuscript, tentatively titled A Battle for Everyday Life: Imagining and Implementing Wearable Technologies. It explores how wearable technologies have emerged in the first decades of the twenty-first century as a consumer-grade technology, and how they became articulated to practices in health, law, fitness, and labor. Across these domains, a variety of institutions and companies have implemented wearable technologies across a range of programs as a means to purportedly learn about the everyday lives of populations. In doing so, it explores an emergent cultural politics around how the conceptualization of everyday life is increasingly transformed into a space of surveillance, data extraction, and standardization. Research Publications Books James N. Gilmore and Sidney Gottlieb, eds., Orson Welles in Focus: Texts and Contexts (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2018). James N. Gilmore and Matthias Stork, eds., Superhero Synergies: Comic Book Characters Go Digital (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 2014). Book Manuscripts James N. Gilmore, A Battle for Everyday Life: Imagining and Implementing Wearable Technologies (working manuscript in progress) Journal Special Issues Blake Hallinan and James N. Gilmore, eds., Cultural Studies 35, nos. 4-5 (2021). Special/double issue on infrastructural politics. Journal Articles James N. Gilmore, Bailey Troutman, Katherine Kenney, Madeline DePuy, Jessica Engel, Katherine Freed, Sidney Campbell, and Savannah Garrigan, “Stuck in a Cul-de-sac of care: Therapy Assistance Online and the platformization of mental health services for college students,” Television & New Media (2022): 1-17. https://doi.org/10.1177/15274764221092159 James N. Gilmore and McKinley DuRant, “Emergency Infrastructure and Locational Extraction: Problematizing Computer Assisted Dispatch Systems as Public Good,” Surveillance & Society 19, no. 2 (2021): 187-198. https://doi.org/10.24908/ss.v19i2.14116 James N. Gilmore, “Predicting COVID-19: Wearable technologies and the politics of solutionism,” Cultural Studies 35, nos. 2-3 (2021): 382-391. https://doi.org/10.1080/09502386.2021.1898021 (editorially reviewed only). Blake Hallinan and James N. Gilmore, “Infrastructural Politics amidst the Coils of Control,” Cultural Studies 35, nos. 4-5 (2021): 1-24.https://doi.org/10.1080/09502386.2021.1895259 James N. Gilmore, “Alienating and reorganizing cultural goods: Using Lefebvre’s controlled consumption model to theorize media industry change,” International Journal of Communication 24 (2020): 4474-4493. https://ijoc.org/index.php/ijoc/article/view/14554 James N. Gilmore, “To Affinity and Beyond: Clicking as Communicative Gesture on theExperimentation Platform,” Communication, Culture, & Critique 13, no. 3 (2020): 333-348. https://doi.org/10.1093/ccc/tcaa005 James N. Gilmore and Bailey Troutman, “Articulating Water to Infrastructure: Agri-culture and Google’s South Carolina Data Center,” International Journal of Cultural Studies 23, no. 6 (2020): 916-931. https://doi.org/10.1177/1367877920913044 James N. Gilmore, “Securing the Kids: Geofencing and Child Wearables,” Convergence: The International Journal of Research into New Media Technologies 26, nos. 5-6 (2020): 1333-1346. https://doi.org/10.1177/1354856519882317 James N. Gilmore, “Design for Everyone: Apple AirPods and the Mediation of Accessibility,” Critical Studies in Media Communication 36, no. 5 (2019): 482-494. https://doi.org/10.1080/15295036.2019.1658885 James N. Gilmore “’Put Your Hand Against the Screen’: U2 and MediatedEnvironments,” Continuum: Journal of Media and Cultural Studies 33, no. 1 (2019): 65-76. https://doi.org/10.1080/10304312.2018.1537392 James N. Gilmore, “From Ticks and Tocks to Budges and Nudges: The Smartwatch and the Haptics of Informatic Culture,” Television & New Media 18, no. 3 (2017): 189-202 (Lead article). Dan Hassoun and James N. Gilmore, “Drowsing: Towards a Concept of Sleepy Screen Engagement,” Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies 14, no. 2 (2017): 103-119 (Lead article). James N. Gilmore, “Zero Dark Thirty and the Writing of Post-9/11 History,” QuarterlyReview of Film and Video 34, no. 3 (2017): 275-294. James N. Gilmore, “Everywear: The Quantified Self and Wearable Fitness Technologies,” New Media & Society 18, no. 11 (2016): 2524-2539. James N. Gilmore, “The Curious Adaptation of Benjamin Button: Or, The Dialogics of Brad Pitt’s Face,” Mediascape, Fall 2014, available at: . James N. Gilmore, “Absolute Anxiety Test: Urban Wreckage in The Dark Knight Rises,” Mediascape, Fall 2013, available at: [editorially reviewed only]. Book Chapters James N. Gilmore, “Progressivism and the Struggles Against Racism and Anti-Semitism: Welles’s Correspondences in 1946,” in Orson Welles in Focus: Texts and Contexts, Eds. James N. Gilmore and Sidney Gottlieb (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2018): 131-149 Sidney Gottlieb and James N. Gilmore, “Introduction: The Totality of Orson Welles,” in Orson Welles in Focus: Texts and Contexts, Eds. James N. Gilmore and Sidney Gottlieb (Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, 2018): 1-10 James N. Gilmore, “Circulating The Square: Digital Distribution as (Potential) Activism,” in The Age of Netflix: Critical Essays on Streaming Media, Digital Delivery, and Instant Access, Eds. Cory Barker and Myc Wiatrowski (Lanham: Rowman & Littlefield, 2017): 120-140. Translated into: Korean (2019) James N. Gilmore, “Spinning Webs: Constructing Authors, Genre, and Fans in the Spider-Man Film Franchise,” in Make Ours Marvel: Media Convergence and a Comics Universe, Ed. Matt Yockey (Austin: University of Texas Press, 2017): 248-267. James N. Gilmore, “A Eulogy of the Urban Superhero: The Everyday Destruction of Space in the Superhero Film,” in Representing 9/11: Trauma, Ideology, and Nationalism in Literature, Film, and Television, Ed. Paul Petrovic (Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield, 2015), 53-63. James N. Gilmore and Matthias Stork, “Introduction: Heroes, Converge!” Superhero Synergies: Comic Book Characters Go Digital, Eds. James N. Gilmore and Matthias Stork (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 2014), 1-10. James N. Gilmore, “Will You Like Me When I’m Angry? Discourses of the Digital in Hulk and The Incredible Hulk,” in Superhero Synergies: Comic Book Characters Go Digital, Eds. James N. Gilmore and Matthias Stork, (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 2014), 11-26. James Gilmore, “‘I Moved On, and So Did the Rest of Us’: The Masculine Ideal and its Discontents in Superman Returns,” in Examining Lois Lane: The Scoop on Superman’s Sweetheart, Ed. Nadine Farghaly (Lanham, MD: Scarecrow Press, 2013), 211-234. Honors and Awards Ray Camp Award for Most Outstanding Research Paper, Carolinas Communication Association, 2018, for "Smart Listening Systems and the Informatization of Communication" LinksPersonal Website College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Copyright © Clemson University College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences | 116 Edwards Hall 864-656-7640 | Email Us | Academic Questions intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson