Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Forward Arrow Academics Communication School of Nursing Parks, Recreation & Tourism Management Political Science Psychology Public Health Sciences Sociology, Anthropology & Criminal Justice Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Prospective Students Academic Advising Forward Arrow Academic Advising Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ FAQ Back Arrow Back Student Resources Student Advisory Board Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research FoodFORWARD 2022 Research Symposium Research Support Center Workshops and Seminars Back Arrow Back Centers & Institutes Forward Arrow Centers & Institutes Center for Research on Health Disparities Clemson Rural Health Clinical Learning Research Center Human Factors Institute Institute for Engaged Aging Institute on Family and Neighborhood Life Institute for Parks Outdoor Lab Social Media Listening Center Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About About the Dean Leadership Building Healthy Communities Inclusive Excellence Alumni and Friends Honors and Awards Contact Us Faculty and Staff Resources Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics show submenu for Academics Communication School of Nursing Parks, Recreation & Tourism Management Political Science Psychology Public Health Sciences Sociology, Anthropology & Criminal Justice Students show submenu for Students Prospective Students Academic Advising show submenu for Academic Advising Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ Student Resources Student Advisory Board Research show submenu for Research FoodFORWARD 2022 Research Symposium Research Support Center Workshops and Seminars Centers & Institutes show submenu for Centers & Institutes Center for Research on Health Disparities Clemson Rural Health Clinical Learning Research Center Human Factors Institute Institute for Engaged Aging Institute on Family and Neighborhood Life Institute for Parks Outdoor Lab Social Media Listening Center About show submenu for About About the Dean Leadership Building Healthy Communities Inclusive Excellence Alumni and Friends Honors and Awards Contact Us Faculty and Staff Resources Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences About Current: About Faculty and Staff Profile Bryan Denham Interim Department Chair Campbell Professor of Sports Communication Office: 305D Daniel Hall Phone: 864-656-1567 Fax: 864-656-0599 Email: BDENHAM@clemson.edu Educational Background Ph.D. Communications with Minor in Applied Statistics University Of Tennessee 1996 MA Communications California State University, Fullerton 1993 BA Journalism and Political Science Indiana University 1989 Courses Taught Introduction to Human Communication Introduction to Journalism Basic Public Speaking Newspaper Feature and Opinion Writing Magazine Article Writing Communication in a World Context Communication Theory Mass Communication Theory Communication Research Methods Sports Communication Sports Media Criticism Public Relations in Sports Advanced Sports Communication (Media, Sport and Health) Principles of Public Relations Public Communication and Popular Culture Political Communication Mass Communication: History and Criticism Senior Communication Seminar Graduate Theory and Research in Mass Communication Empirical Research Methods Special Topics (Media, Sport and Health) Media in Politics Sports Writing Profile Dr. Denham is currently Interim Department Chair and Campbell Professor of Sports Communication. His areas of study include media portrayals of substance use in sport and society, policy and health aspects of substance use, social science theory, and quantitative research methods. Dr. Denham previously served as Department Chair for three years and Chair of the Department Personnel Committee for 10. He has authored approximately 60 peer-reviewed articles in 45 unique journals across the social, behavioral, and health sciences. He is also the author of 50 non-refereed commentaries and reviews as well as 10 book chapters and the scholarly text Categorical Statistics for Communication Research. Dr. Denham has presented approximately 70 papers at academic meetings, and from 2010 to 2020, he served as a referee for more than 300 manuscripts submitted to scholarly journals. Dr. Denham has more than 35 years of combined service to the editorial boards of Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly, Journalism & Mass Communication Educator, and Mass Communication & Society, each affiliated with the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication. Research Publications Statistics Text Denham, B. (2017). Categorical statistics for communication research. Chichester, West Sussex UK: John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Monograph Denham, B. (2020). Magazine journalism in the golden age of muckraking: Patent-medicine exposures before and after the Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906. Journalism & Communication Monographs, 22, 100-159. Selected Journal Articles Denham, B. (2021). Deception in weight-loss advertising: Newspaper use of press releases issued by the Federal Trade Commission. Newspaper Research Journal, 42(2), 198-214. Denham, B. (2021). Dietary supplements in the USA: Problematic trends. Public Health Nutrition, 24, 2771-2775. Denham, B. (2020). Male athlete representations in men's magazines: A study in mediated sport stacking. Communication and Sport, 8(6), 782-802. Denham, B. (2020). Sports participation and attitudes toward race and ethnicity: A study of twelfth-grade students in the United States. Sociology of Sport Journal, 37(2), 143-151. Denham, B. (2019). Attitudes toward legalization of marijuana in the United States, 1986-2016: Changes in determinants of public opinion. International Journal of Drug Policy, 71, 78-90. Denham, B. (2019). Coverage of the Russian doping scandal in the New York Times: Intramedia and intermedia attribute agenda-setting effects. Communication and Sport, 7(3), 337-360. Denham, B. (2019). Anabolic steroid cases in United States District Courts (2013-2017): Defendant characteristics, geographical dispersion, and substance origins. Contemporary Drug Problems, 46, 41-57. Denham, B. (2017). When contaminated dietary supplements cause positive drug tests: Methylhexaneamine as a doping agent in sport. International Journal of Sport Policy and Politics, 9, 677-689. Denham, B. (2017). Athlete information sources about dietary supplements: A review of extant research. International Journal of Sport Nutrition and Exercise Metabolism, 27, 325-334. Denham, B. (2014). High school sports participation and substance use: Differences by sport, race and gender. Journal of Child & Adolescent Substance Abuse, 23, 145-154. Denham, B. (2014). Intermedia attribute agenda-setting in the New York Times: The case of animal abuse in U.S. horse racing. Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly, 91, 17-37. Denham, B. (2011). Alcohol and marijuana use among American high school seniors: Empirical associations with competitive sports participation. Sociology of Sport Journal, 28, 362-379. Denham, B. (2011). Dietary supplements - Regulatory issues and implications for public health. Journal of the American Medical Association, 306, 428-429. Denham, B. (2011). When science, politics and policy collide: On the regulation of anabolic-androgenic steroids, steroid precursors and dietary supplements in the United States. Journal of Sport & Social Issues, 35, 3-21. Honors and Awards Faculty Award for Excellence in Research – Senior Scholar, College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences at Clemson University, April 2020. Research Fellow, North American Society for the Sociology of Sport, November 2017. LinksCurriculum Vita Link to Categorical Statistics for Communication Research College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Copyright © Clemson University College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences | 116 Edwards Hall 864-656-7640 | Email Us | Academic Questions intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson