Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Clery Compliance Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Annual Reports Campus Security Authorities Clery Crime Resources Crime Reporting Form Clery Definitions Campus Alerts Clery Travel Form OSU Public Safety Corvallis Police Department Survivor Advocacy and Resource Center Counseling & Psychological Services Equal Opportunity and Access SafeRide Student Health Services Emergency Management Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Annual Reports Campus Security Authorities Clery Crime Resources Crime Reporting Form Clery Definitions Campus Alerts Clery Travel Form You are here Home Annual Reports About the Annual Reports Developed in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act), the Annual Security Reports inform current and prospective students and employees of the Clery Act crimes reported within the Clery Act geography of each Oregon State University campus for the three most recent calendar years. Important safety information, a wide range of current policies, helpful university and local resources, and crime prevention programs available to the students and employees of Oregon State University are also found within each report. These reports provide the university community with information and resources to make well-informed and reasoned decisions about their personal safety. The Annual Fire Safety Reports, which are also included in each report, contain information about fire safety practices, and fire statistics for on-campus student housing facilities for the three most recent calendar years. The U.S. Department of Education collects and publishes the crime and fire statistics contained in these reports. For more information on the Office of Postsecondary Education (OPE) of the U.S. Department of Education Campus Security Statistics Website, please visit http://ope.ed.gov/security/. The OPE Campus Security Statistics Website has statistical data for over 6,000 colleges and universities in the United States. All current and prospective Oregon State University faculty, staff, and students are encouraged to read the annual report for their campus, and to report all criminal incidents promptly to the Department of Public Safety. You may access the report for each OSU campus below; or you may request a copy of the annual report for any campus by emailing [email protected]. Paper copies of these reports can be obtained at the following locations. These reports are available without charge. Corvallis: 200 Cascade Hall, 601 SW 17th St., Corvallis, OR 97331 Bend: 108 Obsidian Hall, 1500 SW Chandler Ave., Bend, OR 97702 Newport: Director's Office, 2030 SE Marine Science Dr., Newport, OR 97365 La Grande: 205 Badgley Hall, One University Blvd., La Grande, OR 97850 Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports for previous years can be requested by emailing [email protected]. The Clery Act requires institutions to retain the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report and all supporting records used in compiling the report for three years from the latest publication of the report to which they apply—in effect, seven years. 2021 Clery Report for the Corvallis Campus, Hatfield Marine Science Center, and OSU at Eastern Oregon University https://clery.oregonstate.edu/sites/clery.oregonstate.edu/files/combined_2021_asfsr.pdf 2021 Clery Report for OSU-Cascades https://clery.oregonstate.edu/sites/clery.oregonstate.edu/files/cascades_2021_asfsr.pdf Contact Info Clery Compliance 200 Cascade Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-2645 [email protected] Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer