Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Climate School Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home The School Education Research News Events People Giving Shop Leadership Careers COVID-19 Resources Privacy Policy Explore All Programs MA Climate + Society Non-Degree Programs Educator Training Pre-College Programs Professional Learning Undergraduate Research Experiences Office of Research Pre-Award Unit Research Partners Research Projects Columbia Climate School Home The Columbia Climate School's mission is to develop and inspire knowledge-based solutions and educate future leaders for just and prosperous societies on a healthy planet. News Highlights Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 25, 2022 In a collaboration that included Columbia researchers, Belmont County residents set up a low-cost sensor network that is helping them fight for clean air. Columbia Climate School Announces First Faculty Hire May 24, 2022 Archaeologist and anthropologist Kristina Douglass joins faculty from many centers and departments already teaching at the Climate School. Columbia Climate School's First Class Day and Commencement: Photos and Videos May 18, 2022 Photos and videos from before, during, and after the Class Day ceremony, plus more from the university-wide Commencement ceremony. All News Education MA Climate + Society Explore All Programs Non-Degree Research Columbia Climate School nurtures and supports innovative research in the science, consequences, and human dimensions of climate change, including the methods of achieving a more sustainable and just world. Columbia Climate School encompasses the Earth Institute, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, and more than 20 other centers and programs, supporting a continuum of research, from basic discovery to societal solutions. Our Office of Research nurtures our community of established and future environmental leaders through proposal development, programmatic engagement, and compliance support. Impacts Our goal is to ensure the latest research in climate and sustainable development has real-world, real-time, equitable impact on all lives, especially those affected most by the climate crisis. ACToday Empowers National Meteorological Services April 20, 2022 As part of its goal to increase food security in six countries, the ACToday project has helped develop new climate services that lead to better agricultural decision making. How ACToday Builds a Global Community of Climate-Trained Decision Makers April 13, 2022 In the last year, project members trained more than 1,600 professionals and graduate students on integrating climate knowledge into food planning and policy, to help combat hunger. In Madagascar, a Hurricane Simulation Transforms Into Real-life Disaster Response April 4, 2022 Instead of leading a fictional disaster simulation as planned, Columbia researchers helped government agencies prepare for and respond to Tropical Cyclone Batsirai in real time. More Impacts Upcoming Events May9Mon Funding Opportunity: Global Mental Health Council Grants Program Online Event Jun3Fri COVID-19: Causes to Consequences Mini-Symposium Jerome L. Greene Science Center, 3227 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 9th Floor 1:00 PM - 5:30 PM America/New_York Jun7Tue Emerging Voices in the Geosciences and Society: Dr. Mika Tosca Lerner Hall, 2920 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 569 4:00 PM - 6:00 PM America/New_York More Events Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close