Be the first to hear about new surveys and studies. Subscribe Dismiss newsletter form Yale Program on Climate Change Communication Donate About The Program Our Projects Research Themes Who We Are What is Climate Change Communication? Publications Visualizations & Data All Visualizations & Data Climate Opinion Maps Six Americas Surveys For Educators: Grades 6-12 News & Events Blog In the News Videos & Events For the Media About The Program Our Projects Research Themes Who We Are What is Climate Change Communication? Publications Visualizations & Data All Visualizations & Data Climate Opinion Maps Six Americas Surveys For Educators: Grades 6-12 News & Events Blog In the News Videos & Events For the Media Search for: Donate Welcome to the third cohort of the Public Voices Fellowship on the Climate Crisis 20 Fellows, who demonstrate diverse, high-powered thought leadership, will join our third cohort. Read more. Who is willing to participate in non-violent civil disobedience for the climate? More than 8 million Americans are willing to engage in non-violent civil disobedience. Read more. Global Warming’s Six Americas, September 2021 A record number of Americans are “Alarmed” about climate change Read more. Millions are willing to “vote with their dollars” to address climate change A majority of Americans support companies taking climate-friendly actions. The primary barrier? Knowing which companies to reward or punish. Learn more. Public Support for International Climate Action, September 2021 This report provides context for the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26). Read more. Yale Climate Connections Daily 90-second stories broadcast on 680+ radio stations nationwide and original climate news articles and videos. Click to listen, watch or read! Learn More Welcome to the third cohort of the Public Voices Fellowship on the Climate Crisis Who is willing to participate in non-violent civil disobedience for the climate? Global Warming’s Six Americas, September 2021 Consumer Activism on Global Warming, September 2021 Public Support for International Climate Action, September 2021 Yale Climate Connections Welcome to the third cohort of the Public Voices Fellowship on the Climate Crisis Who is willing to participate in non-violent civil disobedience for the climate? Global Warming’s Six Americas, September 2021 Consumer Activism on Global Warming, September 2021 Public Support for International Climate Action, September 2021 Yale Climate Connections Welcome to the third cohort of the Public Voices Fellowship on the Climate Crisis Who is willing to participate in non-violent civil disobedience for the climate? Global Warming’s Six Americas, September 2021 Consumer Activism on Global Warming, September 2021 Public Support for International Climate Action, September 2021 Yale Climate Connections What We Do We conduct scientific research on public climate change knowledge, attitudes, policy preferences, and behavior, and the underlying psychological, cultural, and political factors that influence them. We also engage the public in climate change science and solutions, in partnership with governments, media organizations, companies, and civil society, and with a daily, national radio program, Yale Climate Connections. Audiences Behaviors Beliefs & Attitudes Climate Impacts Messaging Policy & Politics Support Our Work Our research and outreach are sponsored by foundations and many generous individuals. Donate to YPCCC Latest Work Publications View All Report Public Support for International Climate Action, September 2021 Visualizations & Data View All Map Yale Climate Opinion Maps 2021 Projects View All Global Warming’s Six Americas For Educators: Grades 6-12 View All Interactive Maps Climate Change Communication Investigation From The Director Welcome! Here you can find our latest research and insights on climate change communication. Please join the conversation on Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn Anthony Leiserowitz, Director Yale Program on Climate Change Communication Appearances Video: Anthony Leiserowitz on Bill Moyers – Ending the Silence on Climate Change In the News View All May 23, 2022 · Education Week Nearly Half of Educators Say Climate Change Is Affecting Their Schools—or Will Soon May 18, 2022 · The Columbus Dispatch Biology: Climate change misinformation affects things, including us May 18, 2022 · San Jose Spotlight Zimmerman: How to talk about climate change Yale Climate Connections Launch Jun 1, 2022 Hurricane Agatha leaves 11 dead, 32 missing in Mexico; remnants reorganizing in Caribbean Jun 1, 2022 Coverage of migration from place to place within the U.S. Jun 1, 2022 Weatherization and efficiency upgrades can help mobile home residents save money Twitter Timeline Follow @YaleClimateComm Jun 1st Is climate change making the weather worse? According to former @aip_history director Spencer Weart, the answer is… https://t.co/foQySNsgmY @YaleClimateComm May 30th #Massachusetts is proceeding with a lawsuit against ExxonMobil for spreading #misinformation about climate change:… https://t.co/vnfKbQ9dso @YaleClimateComm May 28th What are the “climate #careers” of the future? “Ultimately, where we’re heading in every single sector is impacted… https://t.co/4UHJZbuHQB Contact YPCCC For the Media © 2022 Yale Program on Climate Change Communication, all rights reserved. Site by Constructive Sign up for our Research Alerts Subscribe Donate A program of The Yale School of the Environment Search for: Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * First Name Last Name * Job Title Organization Signup Form Location Affiliation Academic Business Government Media NGO