Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University MA in Climate and Society Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Curriculum Admissions Funding Your Education Students Careers News Overview Why Climate and Society? Information Sessions Faculty and Staff FAQ Columbia Climate School Curriculum at a Glance Core Courses Elective Courses How to Apply Tuition and Fees FAQ Fellowships Financial Aid Diamonstein-Spielvogel Fellowship Student Community Student Experience Student Policies Climate School Class Day Alumni Stats Alumni Board MA in Climate and Society You are here: Home Students Climate School Class Day Climate School Class Day View the May 13, 2022 celebration here! Countdown to Climate School's Class Day 2022! The Climate School's Class Day celebration for its inaugural class will take place on Friday, May 13th, 2022 at 11:00am EDT at Columbia's Miller Theater. An outdoor reception will follow at Ancell Plaza. Graduates may request up to four tickets for guests to join the Class Day ceremony and outdoor reception. The ceremony will also be livestreamed for family and friends who are unable to join in person. Tune in here on Friday, May 13th, 2022 at 11:00am EDT to celebrate this year's graduates! Climate School students are also invited to participate in Columbia's Commencement celebration on Wednesday, May 18th at 10:30am EDT. Get social! Students, faculty, family, and friends, add to our Class Day and Commencement celebrations by sharing your photos on social media. Tag Columbia Climate School and MA in Climate and Society with hashtags #ColumbiaClimate2022 #RoarLions2022. Follow MA in Climate and Society on Twitter. Follow Columbia Climate School on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, and LinkedIn. Congratulations to the 2022 graduates of the Columbia Climate School! Learn more about the first graduating class in this Class Day series from State of the Planet. Expand all Collapse all Climate School Class Day Eligibility to Participate in Class Day MA in Climate and Society students are eligible to participate in the Climate School Class Day ceremony if they meet the following criteria: Their degree was conferred in February 2022 Their degree is expected to be conferred in May 2022 Their degree is expected to be conferred in October 2022 Register for Class Day Students must register to participate in the Climate School Class Day on Friday, May 13, 2022. The deadline to register is April 22, 2022. Regalia Academic regalia is required to participate in the Climate School Class Day and University Commencement ceremonies. Master's regalia consists of a cap and gown, which is available for purchase only and not for rental. Regalia may be obtained through the Columbia University Bookstore in Lerner Hall (2922 Broadway) beginning March 8 or through the online portal beginning March 14. The last day to purchase Master’s regalia to be directly shipped to the student through the online portal is April 15. Please note that regalia orders received after April 22 will be subject to a $40 late fee. Photographs A professional photograph of each student participant will be available for purchase. The event photographer will contact graduates via email, which will be on each student's name card. Guest Tickets Each graduate can request up to four guest tickets for the Climate School Class Day. Ticket requests will be made online in mid-April. All graduates and guests must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status in order to attend the in-person Class Day ceremony. Vaccination cards will be checked upon entry to indoor and outdoor events. The doors to Miller Theater will open at 10:15am for guests. Guests should be prepared to show proof of COVID-19 vaccination along with a digital or printed copy of their Class Day guest ticket. Disability Accommodations Students, and their guests, requiring accommodations during the Climate School Class Day and/or University Commencement ceremonies, including graduates whose disabilities limit their ability to walk or negotiate stairs, should contact Disability Services at [email protected] by Wednesday, May 4. Expand all Collapse all University Commencement Eligibility to Participate in Commencement Climate School students are eligible to participate in the University's Commencement ceremony if they meet the following criteria: Their degree was conferred in February 2022 Their degree is expected to be conferred in May 2022 Their degree is expected to be conferred in October 2022 Register for Commencement All Climate School students who wish to participate in the University Commencement ceremony on May 18, 2022, must first register for the Climate School Class Day. Graduating students will also be required to register to participate in the University Commencement ceremony. The registration link will be sent in early April. Regalia Academic regalia is required to participate in the Climate School Class Day and University Commencement Ceremonies. Master's regalia consists of a cap and gown, which is available for purchase only and not for rental. Regalia may be obtained through the Columbia University Bookstore in Lerner Hall (2922 Broadway) beginning March 8 or through the online portal beginning March 14. The last day to purchase Master’s regalia to be directly shipped to the student through the online portal is April 15. Please note that regalia orders received after April 22 will be subject to a $40 late fee. University Commencement Guest Tickets All Climate School students who wish to participate in University Commencement on Wednesday, May 18, 2022, must register for the Climate School Class Day to become eligible to access the University's Commencement registration system. Registration for University Commencement will open in mid-April. Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Twitter Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close