CLIO CLIO Links Columbia University Libraries Columbia University - Home Libraries - Home CLIO - Home CLIO Classic Course Reserves Borrow Direct ILL WorldCat Law Library Catalog Teachers College Catalog Numeric Data Catalog Spatial Data Catalog Ask a Librarian Suggestions & Feedback Ask a Librarian Log in to... My Borrowing Account My Saved Lists My CLIO Feedback / Help Ask a Librarian CLIO Help FAQ Report E-Resource Problems Recommend a title for purchase Suggestions & Feedback Quicksearch Catalog Databases E-Journal Titles Archives U.S. Government Information New Arrivals E-Books Articles+ Academic Commons Libraries Website GeoData Dissertations Source CLIO All Fields Title Journal Title Author Series Title Begins With Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location SearchAdvanced Search Match all any of the following criteria: Search Basic Search All Fields Title Journal Title Series Title Begins With Author Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location All Fields Title Journal Title Series Title Begins With Author Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location All Fields Title Journal Title Series Title Begins With Author Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location All Fields Title Journal Title Series Title Begins With Author Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location All Fields Title Journal Title Series Title Begins With Author Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location Print Email Send to Phone Add to My Saved List Export Export Citation Display In Display in CLIO Classic MARC View Requests Borrow Direct Place a Recall ILL Scan & Deliver Inter-Campus Delivery In-Process / On Order Precataloging Offsite Item Feedback Item Not On Shelf? Start Over John Yardley Collection of materials related to the Dutch Reformed Church of NYC, 1700-1900 Author Yardley, John H., 1945-2006 Title John Yardley Collection of materials related to the Dutch Reformed Church of NYC, 1700-1900 Description 84.5 linear feet (64 record cartons, 2 document boxes; 1 flat box; 1 smaller document box) Summary This collection consists of primary source material. Biographical / Historical Note The first Church organized in New Netherlands was the Reformed Dutch Church of New Amsterdam (New York City). The Church was formed in 1628, but baptismal and marriage records start in 1639. As the Dutch spread out in their settlements, new churches sprang up on Long Island, Staten Island, and along areas of the Hudson River Valley. Access and Use Material is unprocessed. Please contact rbml@columbia.edu for more information. This collection is located on-site. You will need to request this material at least three business days in advance to use the collection in the Rare Book and Manuscript Library reading room. Single photocopies may be made for research purposes. The RBML maintains ownership of the physical material only. Copyright remains with the creator and his/her heirs. The responsibility to secure copyright permission rests with the patron. Notes Source of acquisition--Bernice Gordon. Method of acquisition--Gift; Date of acquisition--11/10/2012. No additions are expected Materials may have been added to the collection since this finding aid was prepared. Contact rbml@columbia.edu for more information. Cite As Identification of specific item; Date (if known); John H. Yardley Collection of Source Materials Realting to the Dutch Reformed Church of NYC; Box and Folder; Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Columbia University Library. Subjects Yardley, John H., 1945-2006 Dutch Reformed Church of New York City Language Multiple languages; English; Dutch Format Manuscript/Archive Added to CLIO On December 11, 2012 Bookmark As https://clio.columbia.edu/catalog/10101500 Location Rare Book, Butler 6th Fl. East (Non-Circulating) Call Number: MS#1643 Request: Special Collections Google Books More info at Google books Partial View Full view WorldCat Search for title in WorldCat Virtual Shelf Browse Show Hide Full Screen This item has multiple call-numbers. Start browsing at: MS#1643 Loading browse list. Unable to load. Retry?