CLIO CLIO Links Columbia University Libraries Columbia University - Home Libraries - Home CLIO - Home CLIO Classic Course Reserves Borrow Direct ILL WorldCat Law Library Catalog Teachers College Catalog Numeric Data Catalog Spatial Data Catalog Ask a Librarian Suggestions & Feedback Ask a Librarian Log in to... My Borrowing Account My Saved Lists My CLIO Feedback / Help Ask a Librarian CLIO Help FAQ Report E-Resource Problems Recommend a title for purchase Suggestions & Feedback Quicksearch Catalog Databases E-Journal Titles Archives U.S. Government Information New Arrivals E-Books Articles+ Academic Commons Libraries Website GeoData Dissertations Source CLIO All Fields Title Journal Title Author Series Title Begins With Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location SearchAdvanced Search Match all any of the following criteria: Search Basic Search All Fields Title Journal Title Series Title Begins With Author Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location All Fields Title Journal Title Series Title Begins With Author Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location All Fields Title Journal Title Series Title Begins With Author Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location All Fields Title Journal Title Series Title Begins With Author Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location All Fields Title Journal Title Series Title Begins With Author Subject Form/Genre Publication Place Publisher Publication Year ISBN ISSN Call Number Location Print Email Send to Phone Add to My Saved List Export Export Citation Display In Display in CLIO Classic MARC View Requests Borrow Direct Place a Recall ILL Scan & Deliver Inter-Campus Delivery In-Process / On Order Precataloging Offsite Item Feedback Item Not On Shelf? Start Over Birds of the world Title Birds of the world. Published [Ithaca, New York] : Cornell Lab of Ornithology, [2020]- Description 1 online resource : color illustrations, color maps, sound, video Subjects Birds > Databases. Birds > Classification > Databases. Birds > Behavior > Databases. Birds > Identification > Databases. Birds > Nomenclature > Databases. Birds > Geographical distribution > Databases. Birdsongs > Databases. Animal sounds > Databases. Subjects (Genre) Databases. Field guides. Maps. Nomenclatures. Nature sounds. Also Listed Under Cornell University. Laboratory of Ornithology, publisher. American Ornithological Society. Macaulay Library. Summary "Birds of the World, a powerful new resource that brings together scholarly content from four celebrated works of ornithology--Birds of North America and Neotropical Birds (originally published by the Cornell Lab) with Handbook of the Birds of the World Alive and Bird Families of the World (originally published by Lynx Edicions)--into one rich and colorful hub where you can find comprehensive, authoritative information on birds. With the integration of millions of bird observations from eBird and images from the Macaulay Library, Birds of the World is the most powerful ornithological resource ever created. ... The platform merges deep scientific content from more than 10,000 Handbook of the Birds of the World Alive species accounts with 766 Birds of North America accounts and 4,205 Neotropical Birds accounts. ... Our new Bird Families of the World section provides overviews of all 249 bird families, including the taxonomic history and illustrations of every species. Close examination of these family overviews a great way to learn about avian biodiversity and learn the intricacies of field identification. Our experts have updated and expanded the content from its original appearance in print. ... All species accounts have a general range map sourced from either eBird or HBW Alive/BirdLife, and you can expect a growing number of science-based abundance maps and animated migration maps that will help you understand the distribution, abundance, and movements of birds at scales never before possible. ... we now have available an illustration of every species and many subspecies in the world. This 21,000-strong set is an incredible collection. ... A growing library of rich media assets from the Macaulay Library brings life history details into sharper focus. Look for photographs detailing plumages, geographic variation, and behavior; an expanding video gallery showcasing courtship, breeding, foraging, and other behaviors; and in-depth audio recordings of songs, calls, and non-vocal sounds. Assets formerly housed in the Internet Bird Collection are now available in the Macaulay Library."--What's new in Birds of the world web page, viewed June 9, 2020. Access and Use This resource is available only to current faculty, staff and students of Columbia University. Notes "Founding partner: American Ornithologists' Union." "Content sources: eBird; The Cornell Lab of Ornithology, Macaulay Library; IBC, The Internet Bird Collection." Searchable database. Formed from the consolidation of Birds of North America, Handbook of the birds of the world alive, Neotropical birds, and Bird families of the world. Language English LCCN 2020221299 Format Online Added to CLIO On July 27, 2020 Bookmark As https://clio.columbia.edu/catalog/14923051 Location Search Database: http://www.columbia.edu/cgi-bin/cul/resolve?clio14923051 Google Books More info at Google books Partial View Full view WorldCat Search for title in WorldCat Virtual Shelf Browse Show Hide Full Screen This item has multiple call-numbers. Start browsing at: QL671 Loading browse list. Unable to load. Retry?