Search ESPAÑOL NEWS & MEDIA CAREERS CONTACT US SUBSCRIBE Menu ESPAÑOL NEWS & MEDIA CAREERS CONTACT US SUBSCRIBE Twitter Facebook Instagram Donate About Us About Us Our Story & Mission Doctors The Board Staff Patient Stories Our Donors Audited Financials Connect Upcoming Events Maria Rita's Pink Rita 2022 33rd Annual Shrimp Boil View more News & Media The Rose Establishes East Texas Breast Health Hub with Mobile Coach Lilly April 19, 2022 The Rose Awarded “Healthy Kids, Healthy Families” Grant From Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas February 21, 2022 Peggy Roe and Tina Saenz assume Board Positions at The Rose October 5, 2021 View more Blog My Mother’s Strength May 10, 2022 This feels different￼ April 21, 2022 The Pandemic’s Effects on Women’s Health and Cancer Care April 7, 2022 View more Get Involved Donate Fundraising Volunteer The Woman of The Rose Events Resources Breast Health/Breast Cancer FAQs Preparing For Your Visit Breast Cancer Support Groups Patients Uninsured Patients Insured Patients Insurance Plans Referring Physicians Breast Reconstruction Awareness Fundraising Get Involved The Women of The Rose Book Services Screening/Diagnostics Make an Appointment 3D Mammography Bone Density Mobile Mammography Program East Texas Hub Insurance Plans Uninsured Programs Mammogram to Medical Home Program Solicitud de Cita Locations Make an Appointment Donate Now Español News & Media Careers Contact Us Subscribe About Us About Us Our Story & Mission Doctors The Board Staff Patient Stories Our Donors Audited Financials Connect Upcoming Events Maria Rita's Pink Rita 2022 33rd Annual Shrimp Boil View more News & Media The Rose Establishes East Texas Breast Health Hub with Mobile Coach Lilly April 19, 2022 The Rose Awarded “Healthy Kids, Healthy Families” Grant From Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas February 21, 2022 Peggy Roe and Tina Saenz assume Board Positions at The Rose October 5, 2021 View more Blog My Mother’s Strength May 10, 2022 This feels different￼ April 21, 2022 The Pandemic’s Effects on Women’s Health and Cancer Care April 7, 2022 View more Get Involved Donate Fundraising Volunteer The Woman of The Rose Events Resources Breast Health/Breast Cancer FAQs Preparing For Your Visit Breast Cancer Support Groups Patients Uninsured Patients Insured Patients Insurance Plans Referring Physicians Breast Reconstruction Awareness Fundraising Get Involved The Women of The Rose Book Services Screening/Diagnostics Make an Appointment 3D Mammography Bone Density Mobile Mammography Program East Texas Hub Insurance Plans Uninsured Programs Mammogram to Medical Home Program Solicitud de Cita Locations Make an Appointment Donate Now Español News & Media Careers Contact Us Subscribe Donate Shrimp Boil Saturday, June 18, 4pm Pasadena Convention Center Event benefiting The Rose Purchase your ticket or table 2021 Annual Report Celebrating 35 years of making the impossible, possible. View the 2021 Annual Report Why Choose The Rose? We are a Breast Imaging Center of Excellence. Our mission is saving lives through quality breast health services, advocacy and access to care for all. Mammogram Screening An annual mammogram offers peace of mind. Take the time to schedule yours today. View More Insured or Uninsured Regardless of a woman’s ability to pay, we are providing access to screening, diagnostics, and treatment services. Make an Appointment Mobile Mammography Our 3D Mobile Mammography program services women from Matagorda to Shelby Counties. Request Service 3D Technology for all patients We now offer 3D mammography at our centers and on our mobile coaches. View More Making a Difference, Patient by Patient, County by County View 2021 Annual Report 0 Total Patients 0 Uninsured Patients 0 Mobile Patients 0 Years Of Service Our Mission Saving lives through quality breast health services, advocacy and access to care for all. Donate Today Share Your Story Schedule Your Appointment Featured Events 5 June All Day Maria Rita 8445 Gulf Fwy, Houston, TX 77017 Maria Rita’s Pink Rita 2022 On Sunday, June 5th Maria Rita's is hosting a ... View Detail 18 June 4:00 pm - 8:00 pm Pasadena Convention Center 7902 Fairmont Parkway, Pasadena, TX 77507 33rd Annual Shrimp Boil To purchase your table, please visit: www.therose.org/shrimpboil. ... View Detail No event found! Recent News & Blog Posts My Mother's Strength By: Matthew Wallace In May of 2020, in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and after being confined to quarantine… Read More This feels different￼ By: Dorothy Gibbons, CEO & Co-Founder of The Rose I arrived at our country place at 9 am on a… Read More The Rose Establishes East Texas Breast Health Hub with Mobile Coach Lilly Houston, TX [April 20, 2022] The Rose’s fourth and newest luxury mobile mammography coach, Lilly, has established permanent headquarters in… Read More The Pandemic’s Effects on Women’s Health and Cancer Care Since 1986, The Rose has served both insured and uninsured women, with a patient population that is as diverse as… Read More The Rose Awarded “Healthy Kids, Healthy Families” Grant From Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas HOUSTON, TX (February 21, 2022) – The Rose announced it was awarded a Healthy Kids, Healthy Families® (HKHF) grant by Blue Cross and Blue Shield… Read More Flourishing in 2022 Did we really say goodbye to 2021? The last 12 months seem like one long, convoluted nightmare of recurring themes… Read More Peggy Roe and Tina Saenz assume Board Positions at The Rose Houston, TX [October 5, 2021] –The Rose, which has delivered premier breast healthcare services to women and men since 1986,… Read More The Rose Launches Mammogram to Medical Home Program to Increase Access to Primary Care Services Houston, TX [September 27, 2021] The Rose is pleased to announce the creation and launch of a new program that… Read More Wanda Woody-Roberts Assumes Board Position Role at The Rose The Rose is excited to welcome Wanda Woody-Roberts, a human resources professional with over thirty years of service at DePelchin… Read More I got good news today Guest blog by: Lisa, patient of The Rose About a week ago, I got uncertain news (Is anything certain anymore?).… Read More Quick Links Annual Report Sitemap Terms of Use Commitment to Privacy HIPAA Careers IRS Form 990 Twitter Facebook Instagram About The Rose Same day diagnosis, on-site physicians dedicated to breast health care, advanced digital technology—all this reflects The Rose’s emphasis on quality and excellence. The Rose collaborates with the best medical organizations in Texas and reaches women from Matagorda to Shelby Counties. Latest News My Mother’s Strength May 10, 2022 This feels different￼ April 21, 2022 The Rose Establishes East Texas Breast Health Hub with Mobile Coach Lilly April 19, 2022 © 2021 The Rose. All rights reserved. Twitter Facebook Instagram Learn how The Rose is responding to COVID-19. Read More. Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset