Mailing List Support Privacy About Mission Faculty & Fellows Our Team Affiliates Institutional Sponsors Advisory Board In the News Research Globalization Careers & Diversity Innovation & Legal Markets Legal Practice Legal Education Access to Justice Publications Books Reports Papers Case Studies Other Publications Events Awards Dinners Upcoming Events Recent CLP Events Events Archive Opportunities Academic Fellowships Students Support The Practice About Mission Faculty & Fellows Our Team Affiliates Institutional Sponsors Advisory Board In the News Research Globalization Careers & Diversity Innovation & Legal Markets Legal Practice Legal Education Access to Justice Publications Books Reports Papers Case Studies Other Publications Events Awards Dinners Upcoming Events Recent CLP Events Events Archive Opportunities Academic Fellowships Students Support The Practice Mailing List Support Privacy CLP Advisory Board Member, President of Microsoft Visits HLS Read the news post here. Where academic research and practical advice come together. READ NOW Crisis Lawyering: Legal Practice in the New Normal Watch a recording from the Nov. 5 event here In Memoriam: Lani Guinier, 1950-2022 Read David B. Wilkins' tribute to Professor Guinier in the latest issue of The Practice The Harvard Law School Report on the State of Black Alumni II: 2000-2016 READ NOW John Coates and Collaborators Track Law Firms and Russia Read more about the project here. View the Full Webinar Recording and Read the Reports Click here. Bridging academic research and practical advice, The Practice offers thoughtful analysis and perspectives on the legal profession for a global audience. SIGN UP NOW featured View All Law Firms and Russian Profits EY-CLP General Counsel Sustainability Study Books by Center Researchers Globalization, Lawyers, and Emerging Economies HLS Executive Education Law Firms and Russian Profits On Wednesday, March 16, 2022 “Law Firms and Russian Profits,” was launched by faculty and research staff from Harvard, Stanford and Yale Law Schools. The new project tracks the AmLaw 100 firms and UK100 firms to see which have publicly committed not to profit from work that props up the Russian war effort. Click here to learn more about the project. EY-CLP General Counsel Sustainability Study Read the The General Counsel Sustainability Study here. In early 2022, EY Law and the Harvard Law School Center on the Legal Profession surveyed 1,000 General Counsel and Chief Legal Officers from businesses representing 12 industries across 20 countries to take a closer look at the role of the law department in sustainability. Click here to learn more. Books by Center Researchers Check out some of the recent books by CLP faculty, fellows, and affiliates, including the first book in our Globalization, Lawyers, and Emerging Economies (GLEE) series, The Indian Legal Profession in the Age of Globalization: The Rise of the Corporate Legal Sector and its Impact on Lawyers and Society, published by Cambridge University Press. VIEW RECENT BOOKS HERE Globalization, Lawyers, and Emerging Economies The project on Globalization Lawyers and Emerging Economies—or GLEE—is designed to conduct original, empirical research and to examine how globalization is reshaping the market for legal services in important emerging economies around the world. LEARN MORE HLS Executive Education Harvard Law School’s Executive Education strives to develop lawyers from a range of institutions into influential and effective leaders and make a positive difference in the global legal profession. HLS Executive Education offers a number of open-enrollment and custom programs available for legal professionals at various points in their careers, both within firms and in-house. LEARN MORE ABOUT HLS EXECUTIVE EDUCATION research View All Harvard Law School Career Study Report on State of Black Alumni Resident Fellow Opportunities MORE RESEARCH Harvard Law School Career Study This Preliminary Report on The Women and Men of Harvard Law School presents the results of the Harvard Law School Career Study (HLSCS), conducted by the school’s Center on the Legal Profession (CLP). The study seeks to deepen the understanding of the career choices made by HLS graduates by providing for the first time systematic empirical information about the careers trajectories of graduates from different points in the school’s history. In this Preliminary Report, we offer a first look at the Study’s findings about the salient similarities and differences between the careers of the school’s female and male graduates. LEARN MORE HERE MORE RESEARCH Report on State of Black Alumni In 2016, the Center produced an update to and extension of its 2000 Report on the State of Black Alumni: 1869-2000 with the publication of Harvard Law School: Report on the State of Black Alumni II 2000-2016. The report contains both a comprehensive history section on the state of the black legal profession and, in particular, black HLS graduates between 2000 and 2016 (including a comprehensive timeline of developments across those years) as well as a robust data section on the career-paths of black HLS graduates. The Center launched this important work in June 2017 at its 3rd Annual Awards Dinner, held at the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. LEARN MORE HERE MORE RESEARCH Resident Fellow Opportunities The Harvard Law School Center on the Legal Profession (CLP) is seeking 1 or more Research Fellows to join its Fellowship Program in the Summer/Fall 2018 (exact start date negotiable) to conduct independent empirical research on the structure, norms, and dynamics of the global legal profession and to contribute to the research priorities of the Center. We encourage applicants to learn more about the Center’s research on its website (CLP.law.harvard.edu) and via its digital magazine The Practice (thepractice.law.harvard.edu). Research fellowships are full-time, in-residence at the Center’s offices in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and typically 2-years in length. At the Center, the Research Fellow would join a lively group of researchers from diverse disciplines as well as Harvard’s wider academic community. Previous research fellows have come from a number of academic backgrounds (including law, sociology, international relations/political science, economics, psychology, and organizational behavior) and have gone onto faculty positions at major universities in the United States, India, Korea, and Canada. To learn more, email Bryon Fong at [email protected] BROWSE CLP'S FACULTY AND FELLOWS MORE RESEARCH NEWS View All CLP Paper Prize Winners: 2021 and... Swethaa S. Ballakrishnen Co-Authors New Journal... Paola Cecchi-Dimeglio in Bloomberg on Law... MORE NEWS CLP Paper Prize Winners: 2021 and 2022 Thursday, May 26, 2022 As we celebrate commencement, we are pleased to present the winners of the Center on the Legal Profession paper prize for both the years 2022 and 2021. (This year’s celebration exercises bring together three years of graduating classes). For 2022, we are pleased to present the CLP paper prize to Shaza Loutfi ’22 for her […] READ MORE MORE NEWS Swethaa S. Ballakrishnen Co-Authors New Journal Article on Inequality in Legal Education Tuesday, May 24, 2022 Swethaa S. Ballakrishnen, CLP affiliate and assistant professor of law at UC Irvine School of Law, and Carole Silver, professor of global law & practice at Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, recently published, “Where Do We Go From Here? International Students, Post-Pandemic, Law Schools, and the Possibilities of Universal Design,” in an issue of […] READ MORE MORE NEWS Paola Cecchi-Dimeglio in Bloomberg on Law Firm Diversity Thursday, May 19, 2022 For Bloomberg Opinion, CLP senior research fellow Paola Cecchi-Dimeglio discusses her research on increasing diversity in the legal profession and why simple fixes like the Rooney Rule and the Mansfield Rule don’t work. She writes: “The reason these rules haven’t immediately (or even slowly) increased diversity is that one simple rule carried out right before […] READ MORE MORE NEWS events View All MORE EVENTS The Practice Bridging academic research and practical advice, The Practice offers thoughtful analysis and perspectives on the legal profession for a global audience. SIGN UP NOW Center on the Legal Profession Harvard Law School 1563 Massachusetts Avenue Pound Hall 204 Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone (617) 496-6232 Email [email protected] @HLS_CLP © 2022 Harvard Law School Center on the Legal Profession Website design by Jackrabbit