Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for Language Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People Languages@Brown World Languages & Cultures Placement Exams Why Languages? Languages Across Campus Undergraduates Faculty and Graduate Students Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops News & Events Technology Workshops Workshops on Language Pedagogy Graduate Student Professional Development Reading Groups Past Events Search Center for Language Studies Resources for Undergraduate Students Breadcrumb Home Faculty and Graduate Students What course should I take? Take a placement exam to find out! Information for all Languages Resources for Undergraduate Students Undergraduate students get involved with languages and cultures at Brown in a variety of ways. From enrolling in one of our amazing languages courses with small-sized classes where the professor gets to know you really well and where you learn, collaborate and become friends with fellow students from a variety of concentrations to the CLS Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) and weekly Open Hours for language practice and community-building, the CLS has something for all interests. The CLS DUG The mission of the CLS DUG is to bring undergraduate language enthusiasts together and to demonstrate the value of language learning to the Brown community. Visit Page Open details for The CLS DUG Placement Exams Students hoping to study a language with which they have some familiarity - whether through formal classroom study, significant exposure to the language through extended stay abroad or use in your family - are invited to take a language placement test. Visit Page Open details for Placement Exams Languages Across Campus Brown is home to numerous academic departments that specialize in modern and ancient languages. Did you know there are over 25 languages offered at Brown? Let languages be part of your Brown experience by starting a new language or continuing with languages you already know. Wondering where to start? Take a placement exam! Visit Page Open details for Languages Across Campus Careers Languages open doors! Alumni often report how important language classes were for their undergraduate experience and for their careers afterward. Explore this page to find out how languages can play a role in your pathways at Brown and beyond. Visit Page Open details for Careers Study and Intern Abroad Students are encouraged to deepen their cultural knowledge and awareness and improve their proficiency in modern languages through study and internship in the countries where the languages are spoken. Visit Page Open details for Study and Intern Abroad Language Ambassadors Meet our Language Ambassadors, who play an essential role in creating positive experiences for language learning at Brown. Visit Page Open details for Language Ambassadors Open Hours Join us every Monday on the 6th floor of the SciLi at 6pm for a peer-facilitated language hour. Meet people who speak the language you are learning. Visit Page Open details for Open Hours Independent Study for Credit Students who wish to study a language not offered on campus may petition to create an Independent Study Project or Group Independent Study Project. In the past, students have studied the following languages independently: Danish, Dutch, Armenian, Romanian, Tagalog, Esperanto, Georgian, Hungarian, Thai, Vietnamese. Visit Page Open details for Independent Study for Credit Language Materials at the Rock Check out language learning resources offered by the Brown University Library. Visit Page Open details for Language Materials at the Rock What course should I take? Take a placement exam to find out! Information for all Languages Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People Languages@Brown World Languages & Cultures Placement Exams Why Languages? Languages Across Campus Undergraduates Faculty and Graduate Students Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops News & Events Technology Workshops Workshops on Language Pedagogy Graduate Student Professional Development Reading Groups Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Resources for Undergraduate Students Open details for Resources for Undergraduate Students Bookmark this Page