Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for Language Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People Languages@Brown World Languages & Cultures Placement Exams Why Languages? Languages Across Campus Undergraduates Faculty and Graduate Students Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops News & Events Technology Workshops Workshops on Language Pedagogy Graduate Student Professional Development Reading Groups Past Events Search Center for Language Studies We are CLS and WLC We are CLS and WLC The Center for Language Studies encompasses two unique units - the Center for Languages Studies (CLS) and World Languages and Cultures (WLC). CLS supports and promotes the work done by all language faculty and students at Brown. WLC is the home department for Arabic, ASL, English for International Graduate Students, Hindi, Nahuatl, Persian, Turkish, Swahili, Urdu, and Yoruba. About the Center for Language Studies Brown’s Center for Language Studies (CLS) was established in 1987 to support the teaching and learning of modern languages by Brown's lecture-track faculty. In 2019, the Center became central to the University's initiative to renew and strengthen language departments at Brown. Nowadays, you will find all ranks of faculty collaborating and innovating side-by-side with graduate students. Visit Page Open details for About the Center for Language Studies World Languages and Cultures World Languages and Cultures (WLC) offers a variety of languages including American Sign Language, Arabic, English for International Teaching Assistants, Hindi, Nahuatl, Persian, Swahili, Turkish, Urdu and Yoruba. Visit Page Open details for World Languages and Cultures Thanking and supporting Languages@Brown Giving is a great way of thanking former faculty who were instrumental during your time at Brown and who helped to make you the person you are today! By making a donation, you will support Languages@Brown. Choose a tribute gift in order to support a specific group such as a programming, study abroad, internships, faculty, students, or where needed most). We thank you in advance! “ Languages are the key to cultural understanding. While proficiency in English is essential in many facets of life in the 21st century, at home and abroad, knowledge of English alone is insufficient to meet the nation’s needs in a global society. ” Bridging America's Language Gap American Academy of Arts and Sciences CLS Center for Language Studies WLC WLC Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People Languages@Brown World Languages & Cultures Placement Exams Why Languages? Languages Across Campus Undergraduates Faculty and Graduate Students Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops News & Events Technology Workshops Workshops on Language Pedagogy Graduate Student Professional Development Reading Groups Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search We are CLS and WLC Open details for We are CLS and WLC Bookmark this Page