Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for Language Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People Languages@Brown World Languages & Cultures Placement Exams Why Languages? Languages Across Campus Undergraduates Faculty and Graduate Students Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops News & Events Technology Workshops Workshops on Language Pedagogy Graduate Student Professional Development Reading Groups Past Events Search Center for Language Studies Faculty and Graduate Students Sub Navigation In This Section Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops Faculty and Graduate Students All undergraduates, graduate students and faculty interested in languages find community and support at the Center for Language Studies. We support, encourage and advise undergraduates on their pathways for language learning and facilitate many co-curricular activities relating to Languages@Brown. Faculty and graduate students teaching in language departments participate in a variety of programming and have access to online resources made available by CLS in order to advance excellence in language instruction. Faculty at Brown regularly participate in pedagogy and technology workshops for language teaching and are encouraged to share and present on their own research and teaching. CLS also hosts invited guests who present on the latest trends in language learning technology. Resources for Undergraduate Students Undergraduate students get involved with languages and cultures at Brown in a variety of ways. Visit Page Open details for Resources for Undergraduate Students Resources for Graduate Students The CLS prioritizes the success of graduate students in all language departments during their time at Brown and beyond. Visit Page Open details for Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS supports language faculty in delivering highly engaging, research-based language instruction where the integration of language and culture is paramount and takes places in a collaborative learning environment. Faculty find support, encouragement, expertise and camaraderie through programming and professional development offered through CLS. Come visit us on the sixth floor of the Sciences Library. Visit Page Open details for Resources for Faculty Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People Languages@Brown World Languages & Cultures Placement Exams Why Languages? Languages Across Campus Undergraduates Faculty and Graduate Students Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops News & Events Technology Workshops Workshops on Language Pedagogy Graduate Student Professional Development Reading Groups Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Faculty and Graduate Students Open details for Faculty and Graduate Students Bookmark this Page