Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for Language Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People Languages@Brown World Languages & Cultures Placement Exams Why Languages? Languages Across Campus Undergraduates Faculty and Graduate Students Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops News & Events Technology Workshops Workshops on Language Pedagogy Graduate Student Professional Development Reading Groups Past Events Search Center for Language Studies Resources for Graduate Students Breadcrumb Home Faculty and Graduate Students Sub Navigation In This Section Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops Resources for Graduate Students The CLS prioritizes the success of graduate students in all language departments during their time at Brown and beyond. We offer regular workshops devoted to timely topics such as implementing various technologies in language teaching and preparing teaching portfolios and professional profiles. Language Reading Exams for Graduate Students Are you a PhD candidate trying to complete the departmental language proficiency exam? CLS can help! Visit Page Open details for Language Reading Exams for Graduate Students CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops CLS offers regular lectures, workshops and reading groups for faculty and graduate student professional development. By promoting research on language pedagogy and offering programming relating to the teaching and learning of languages, CLS helps to facilitate communication among language faculty at Brown and to encourage students to pursue the innovative language-learning opportunities Brown makes available. Visit Page Open details for CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops Careers for Modern Language Ph.D.s Preparing graduate students in modern languages for now and the future Our in-house workshops focus on preparation for teaching languages now and for jobs in the academy. CLS works with the Sheridan Center and Digital Learning and Design to help students in modern languages find resources they need. We liaise with professional organizations and the Career Lab to bring more perspectives as we support graduate students. CLS Resource Site for Teaching Visit Page Open details for CLS Resource Site for Teaching Connected Academics: Preparing for a Variety Careers Visit Page Open details for Connected Academics: Preparing for a Variety Careers Imagine PhD: A Career Exploration Tool Visit Page Open details for Imagine PhD: A Career Exploration Tool Language Study for Graduate Students Do you need to read, understand or speak languages for your professional career? Graduate Students may enroll in language courses at any level. Please confer with your departmental DGS and reach out to the individual instructor for more information concerning placement and registration. Brown offers courses appropriated for graduate students that target second language reading skills. Please refer to cab.brown.edu for such courses for Ancient Egyptian, German, Persian, French and Polish. Graduate Students may in certain circumstances take language courses not offered at Brown at other IvyPlus institutions as part of the Exchange Scholar Program. Please contact the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Thomas Lewis, who is the Brown contact for this program. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People Languages@Brown World Languages & Cultures Placement Exams Why Languages? Languages Across Campus Undergraduates Faculty and Graduate Students Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops News & Events Technology Workshops Workshops on Language Pedagogy Graduate Student Professional Development Reading Groups Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Resources for Graduate Students Open details for Resources for Graduate Students Bookmark this Page