Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for Language Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People Languages@Brown World Languages & Cultures Placement Exams Why Languages? Languages Across Campus Undergraduates Faculty and Graduate Students Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops News & Events Technology Workshops Workshops on Language Pedagogy Graduate Student Professional Development Reading Groups Past Events Search Center for Language Studies Placement Exams Breadcrumb Home Languages@Brown Sub Navigation In This Section World Languages & Cultures Placement Exams Why Languages? Languages Across Campus Advanced Placement (AP) Credits Learn More Beginning Language Courses Search C@B Placement Exams Students hoping to study a language with which they have some familiarity - whether through formal classroom study, significant exposure to the language through extended stay abroad or use in your family - are invited to take a language placement test. Scroll down to see how many languages we offer at Brown! There you'll also find guidelines for taking placement tests and contacting the department. For any questions about placement exams, please contact the faculty member listed for each language. American Sign Language Contact Timothy Riker, Center for Language Studies Meet the faculty in this video Arabic Placement tests are administered individually in the early days of the semester. Contact Second Year Arabic (ARAB0300) - Elsa Belmont Flores Third Year Arabic (ARAB0500, ARAB0850) - Miled Faiza Advanced Arabic (ARAB0700) - Alla Hassan, or contact Language_Studies@Brown.edu Chinese Anyone who has any background in Chinese is required to take the placement test, including those who have taken or submitted their SAT or AP tests scores. Chinese Language Placement Test Introduction Video to the Chinese Language Program Contact Yang Wang, East Asian Studies Czech Contact Masako Fidler, Slavic Studies Watch the Czech Program video French The French placement exam can be taken at any time, preferably before the beginning of classes. More information can be found on the French and Francophone Studies website. Meet a faculty member German Log on to Canvas to take the online German placement test. You may take the placement test at anytime during the summer or semester. Students who have received a 5 in the German AP should enroll in GRMN0500. Contact Jane Sokolosky Explore GermanStudies@Brown Modern Greek Contact Elsa Amanatidou, Classics Department Explore Modern Greek at Brown Hebrew Contact Ruth Adler Ben-Yehuda, Judaic Studies Hindi/Urdu Placement tests are administered individually during registration period. Students wishing to start Hindi at Brown should register for HNDI0100 in the fall. Contact Ashok Koul, Center for Language Studies Italian The Italian language placement exam can be taken at any time, preferably at the beginning of each semester. It has both written and oral components. Contact Cristina Abbona Sneider, Italian Studies Japanese Japanese Placement Test for Spring 2022 こんにちは！ Thank you for your interest in studying Japanese with us here at Brown University. Please visit the placement test site. If you have further questions, please contact Suga sensei. We would like to ask all incoming students to take the placement test in January. If you have trouble accessing the site, please visit the following three URLs: 1. SPOT Test The SPOT (Simple Performance-Oriented Test) test was developed at Tsukuba University in Japan. It is used widely in Japan and abroad for level-placement purposes, as well as for assessment and diagnosis of a test takers’ Japanese proficiency level. The Brown University Japanese Program has begun using this test as of fall 2020. The test will take approximately 30 to 60 minutes and requires a headset. Please set aside enough time for yourself and be in a quiet place when you take it. Your results will come back immediately via a PDF file which you will submit to us via Google Forms (Step 3). Please go to: https://ttbj.cegloc.tsukuba.ac.jp/p1.html, and scroll to the very bottom and click on "Individual Application (個人受験申込)." Select the option “SPOT90 + Grammar90 + 漢字SPOT50” and click Next. 2. Survey 3. Essay Once you have completed (or nearly completed) these three tasks, please make an appointment for an interview. Interviews will be given on January 21, 2022. Please finish these three steps by the time of the interview. Please visit the placement test site around January 14, 2022 to schedule an interview. Thank you and we all look forward to seeing you in Spring 2022! Korean Information about the Korean placement test can be found on the East Asian Studies website. Contact Hye-Sook Wang, East Asian Studies Latin and Ancient Greek and Sanskrit Contact classics_department@brown.edu Nahuatl Contact eduardo_de_la_cruz@brown.edu Persian Contact Michelle_Quay@brown.edu, Persian@Brown Polish Contact Paulina_Duda@Brown.edu Portuguese Placement tests are administered individually during registration period. Contact Patricia Sobral, Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Russian Dates, times, and formats for placement exams are TBD and will be updated here as soon as they are confirmed. Contact Lynne DeBenedette, Slavic Studies Spanish The Brown placement exam for Spanish can be taken at any time, preferably before the beginning of classes. Information on access to the Spanish language placement exam can be found on the Hispanic Studies website. Current Faculty in Hispanic Studies Turkish Placement tests are administered individually. Contact Esra Ozdemir, Center for Language Studies Learn about tthe Turkish program here Vietnamese Contact Trang_Tran@Brown.edu Yoruba Beginning and Intermediate Yoruba will be offered in the academic year 2021-22. Contact olufeyisayo_soetan@brown.edu Advanced Placement (AP) Credits Learn More Beginning Language Courses Search C@B Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People Languages@Brown World Languages & Cultures Placement Exams Why Languages? Languages Across Campus Undergraduates Faculty and Graduate Students Resources for Graduate Students Resources for Faculty CLS Pedagogy and Technology Workshops News & Events Technology Workshops Workshops on Language Pedagogy Graduate Student Professional Development Reading Groups Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Placement Exams Open details for Placement Exams Bookmark this Page