Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About CM From the Chair People History Mission ACCE Accreditation Contact Us Students Student Organizations Student Competitions Career Services Undergraduate Resources Undergraduate Funding Graduate Resources Graduate Funding & Scholarships Applying for CPT Admissions Bachelors in CM CM/ARCH Dual Degree Graduate Admissions International Admissions Graduate Non-Matriculated Programs Bachelors in CM CM Minor CM/ARCH Dual Degree Graduate Degrees Certificate Programs Doctoral Degrees Industry CIAC Construction Industry Associations EVENTS Hall of Fame Company Presentations Meetings & Town Halls Alumni + Friends CERC Construction Management Menu About CM From the Chair People History Mission ACCE Accreditation Contact Us Students Student Organizations Student Competitions Career Services Undergraduate Resources Undergraduate Funding Graduate Resources Graduate Funding & Scholarships Applying for CPT Admissions Bachelors in CM CM/ARCH Dual Degree Graduate Admissions International Admissions Graduate Non-Matriculated Programs Bachelors in CM CM Minor CM/ARCH Dual Degree Graduate Degrees Certificate Programs Doctoral Degrees Industry CIAC Construction Industry Associations EVENTS Hall of Fame Company Presentations Meetings & Town Halls Alumni + Friends CERC Home Department of Construction Management Celebrate this year's inductees May 6, 2022 from 6:00 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. Learn More In Memoriam Steve Goldblatt, former Department of Construction Management Chair and Associate Professor Emeritus Read More Spring BIM Certificate starts March 29, 2022 Register Now Thanks to these outstanding firms for supporting the 2021 Career Fair. Bachelor Admissions Deadline Extension The online application opens on February 1 and closes on May 15. Read more Search CM Site Search for: Are you considering CM? Looking to join our undergraduate program? Undergraduate Advising Interested in earning your Masters in CM? Graduate Advising Recent Posts Women in Construction: Carrie Sturts Dossick Posted: March 29, 2022 Carrie Sturts Dossick didn’t set out to break new ground when she decided to pursue civil engineering in college. “It never dawned on me that I shouldn’t do it and I came in a bit oblivious to the fact that I was joining a male-dominated field. I just thought that it was an interesting subject and I wanted to try it.” Read more Women in Construction: Darlene Septelka Posted: March 18, 2022 Growing up, Darlene didn’t experience the gendering of toys. Her parents made no distinction between playing with trucks, blocks or Barbies. “I never felt like ‘girls don’t do that,’ or that I should be playing with dolls, or that there was a role I needed to portray.” One day her dad dumped a pile of… Read more Student Spotlight: Ruben Salazar-Izquierdo Posted: March 1, 2022 Ruben Salazar-Izquierdo, a student in the Masters in Construction Management program, was awarded a Fulbright scholarship in 2021. He anticipates finishing the program in June 2022. The Fulbright U.S. Student Program is the largest U.S. exchange program offering opportunities for students and young professionals to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and primary… Read more Bid Day: a real life simulation Posted: February 22, 2022 Bid Day is a half-day exercise that takes place at the end of the Fall Quarter of a student’s senior year. It’s a chance for them to put into practice the skills learned to effectively and accurately review subcontractor and supplier bids. They are charged with summarizing them into the “low bid” and submitting to… Read more Transfer Student Highlight: Charleston Burr Posted: February 5, 2022 Charleston Burr was a transfer student in our Construction Management program and an Andrew Eker Scholarship Scholar. Originally from Kent, Washington, he transferred to UW in 2020, from Green River College in Auburn. Charleston graduated in 2021 and is now a Project Engineer at Hensel Phelps, where he is focusing on gaining experience and developing… Read more Construction Management Students Competed in the 2021 DBIA National Design-Build Student Competition Posted: December 3, 2021 This year a UW student team competed in the 2021 DBIA Design-Build Student Competition. The following UW students competed at a national level in this competition. Shreyas Bhore, Team Captain – MS in Construction Management Mariele Alarilla, BS in CM and Architecture Dual Degree Geng Chen, BS in CM and Architecture Dual Degree Takanobu Suzuki,… Read more Construction Management Career Expo Posted: November 9, 2021 On November 8, the College hosted the Construction Management Career Expo. The booth-style event was held in-person at the HUB, and was attended by over 70 employers and students, including those from construction management, civil engineering, and other built environments disciplines. Read more Prevention though Design (PtD) for MEP Worker Safety Posted: October 29, 2021 The Prevention through Design (PtD) concept will improve worker safety, as applicable to Mechanical/Electrical/Plumbing (MEP) design and construction. Read more John Schaufelberger: Recipient of the 2021 ASC Lifetime Achievement Award Posted: August 13, 2021 2021 ASC Lifetime Achievement Award The lifetime achievement award is given each year to recognize the work of someone who has advanced construction education through “knowledge, inspiration, guidance and/or the promotion of excellence in curricula, teaching, research, and service.” The ASC praised Schaufelberger as an accomplished scholar, servant leader, and student-focused educator. He received his award… Read more Connect with us: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact Us Support CBE Calendar CBE Intranet Privacy Terms ©2021 College of Built Environments | Seattle, WA