Close About Partners Light Work Syracuse University Art Museum Louise & Bernard Palitz Gallery at Lubin House Special Collections Research Center Community Folk Art Center Point of Contact Urban Video Project P.A.L. Project Map Links Syracuse University Connective Corridor Everson Musuem of Art Search for: Exit About Partners Light Work Syracuse University Art Museum Louise & Bernard Palitz Gallery at Lubin House Special Collections Research Center Community Folk Art Center Point of Contact Urban Video Project P.A.L. Project Map Links Syracuse University Connective Corridor Everson Musuem of Art Search open Point of Contact A collaborative, cross-disciplinary forum where artists, writers, scholars and students actively engage in the production of publications, art exhibitions and events to enrich the cultural mix of our society. visit Syracuse University Art Museum The largest venue for the visual arts and home to the University’s encyclopedic art collection and traveling exhibition program. visit Light Work/ Community Darkrooms Light Work provides direct support to artists working in the mediums of photography and digital imaging through exhibitions, lectures, grants, artist residencies, and publications. Community Darkrooms is a large community-access facility featuring traditional and digital photography labs and facilities. visit Urban Video Project The Urban Video Project (UVP) is a multi-media public art initiative of Light Work and Syracuse University with technology provided by Time Warner Cable that operates electronic exhibition sites along the Connective Corridor in the Syracuse Community. visit Special Collections Research Center Syracuse University Libraries’ Special Collections Research Center is home to many of Syracuse University’s most valued treasures, including more than 150,000 rare books, over 2,400 unique manuscript collections, and one of the largest sound archives in the United States. visit Community Folk Art Center The Community Folk Art Center is a vibrant cultural and artistic hub committed to the promotion and development of artists of the African Diaspora by collecting, exhibiting, teaching and interpreting the visual & expressive arts. visit The Louise and Bernard Palitz Gallery Syracuse University Lubin House in New York City is home to the Louise and Bernard Palitz Gallery, host to art exhibitions throughout the year from the Syracuse University Art Galleries and CMAC partner organizations. visit PAL Project Photography and Literacy Project (PAL Project) is an innovative program that brings SU students into Syracuse City Schools to develop projects involving photography, video, audio recording and writing. visit THE COALITION OF MUSEUM AND ART CENTERS AT SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY was founded in 2005 to unify a portfolio of visual art centers and exhibition venues on campus and in New York City. By stressing best practices, shared resources, and collaboration CMAC fosters a vibrant art community and maintains the individual character of each unique organization within the group. By supporting a diverse range of high quality programs in the arts CMAC endeavors to place creative expression at the forefront of the University’s mission to prepare students to learn, lead and create through rigorous academic programs, diverse experiential learning, and engagement with global research. Learn More Copyright © 2017 Coalition of Museum and Art Centers at Syracuse University. All rights reserved. Go top UA-107971115-1