Skip to main content Center for Marine Sciences and Technology (CMAST) Menu Close About Note from the Director CMAST Coastal Quarters Charter and Strategic Plan CMAST Policy Manuals Marine Sciences Programs People Tal Ben-Horin Jeff Buckel Jie Cao Alexander Chouljenko David Eggleston Craig Harms NC Aquariums Vet Team Carol Seals Price Michael Stoskopf Vicky Thayer Help Us with Our Mission Our Partners Contact Directories News Give Now About About Note from the Director CMAST Coastal Quarters Charter and Strategic Plan CMAST Policy Manuals Marine Sciences Programs Programs People People Tal Ben-Horin Jeff Buckel Jie Cao Alexander Chouljenko David Eggleston Craig Harms NC Aquariums Vet Team Carol Seals Price Michael Stoskopf Vicky Thayer Help Us with Our Mission Help Us with Our Mission Our Partners Our Partners Contact Contact Directories News News Give Now Stop Video Campus at the Coast Discovering Coastal Solutions A School of Fishes At NC State’s Center for Marine Sciences and Technology in Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. Do fish sleep? Yes, when properly anesthetized. And that’s the goal of a unique one-week selective class taught annually by NC State professors Craig Harms and Gregory Lewbart at the Center for Marine Sciences and… Seafood Lab Researches Methods to Extend Shelf Life of Shrimp The NC State University Seafood Lab at CMAST has been working with four undergraduate students on a research project to develop a pickled shrimp product to evaluate the quality and safety of a process to preserve raw shrimp. Alex Chouljenko, director of the CMAST seafood lab, and Greg Bolton, research assistant, designed and led the study.… Dr. Carol Price Receives NC State University Sustainability Award The NC State University Sustainability Council has selected Dr. Carol Seals Price, instructor at The Center for Marine Sciences and Technology (CMAST), and Conservation Research Coordinator at NC Aquariums, as the recipient of this year’s Faculty Sustainability award. The purpose of the award is to acknowledge a faculty member who exemplifies sustainability through their work on… An Extraordinary Coastal Center About 150 miles from Raleigh, NC State’s Center for Marine Sciences and Technology is offering students unique experiences and furthering the university’s research and outreach mission.Learn More CMAST Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusiveness The Center for Marine Sciences and Technology (CMAST) is committed to ensuring a welcoming and inclusive environment for all. CMAST strongly condemns racism and institutionalized racial violence and stands in solidarity with marginalized groups and movements seeking to confront them. We will continue to foster a welcoming and inclusive environment at CMAST. We commit to fostering and growing a CMAST community that reflects the rich diversity of our country. Read More Center for Marine Sciences and Technology (CMAST) Home 303 College Circle Morehead City, NC 28557 P: 252.222.6302 E: ncstate-cmast@ncsu.edu CMAST Map Privacy Accessibility Contact Questions or Comments? © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.