Jump to Navigation Computer Music Center About News & Events People Courses Projects Contact Info for Applicants CMC Archives Studios & Equipment Donate Info for applicants What kind of degree programs does the CMC offer? The CMC is not an independent degree granting institute but a division of Columbia University’s Department of Music. To find out more about how to apply to Columbia’s music degree programs, please refer to these resources: Undergraduate Sound Arts MFA Music Dept PhD/DMA Undergrads must apply through an individual school. Details available here: Undergrad Applicant Info The Sound Arts MFA program is physically located at the CMC, but it is administered by the School of the Arts. Sound Arts Applicant Info Prospective PhD/DMA students apply through Columbia University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). PhD/DMA Applicant Info Do I need to be a music major to take courses at the CMC? No. Any student, staff or faculty member at Columbia University is welcome to register for our classes, as space allows. You also do not need to have any previous formal musical training. Please see our courses page for more information. Do I have to be a graduate student to work at the CMC? No. CMC courses are open to students of all levels at the University. However, some classes have prerequisites and may have many of their slots reserved for graduate students. See our courses page for details. How can I apply to study at the CMC? The CMC is not a “major” or a program of study, and does not admit students; all CMC students are drawn from the general Columbia University academic community. To work at the CMC, first, you need to decide what degree program you wish to apply for and then contact the appropriate school at Columbia. Applications for graduate music degree programs are processed through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). Applications for the Sound Arts MFA program are processed through the School of the Arts. Prospective Undergraduate students will need to learn more about the different schools and programs of the Columbia community that comprise the Department of Music. Undergraduates interested in a focus on music and access to Computer Music Center courses should apply directly through the school they plan to attend: Columbia College, Columbia School of General Studies, Barnard College, Columbia School of Engineering and Applied Science or Columbia/Juilliard Joint Programs. The Computer Music Center at Columbia University 632 West 125th Street, New York, NY 10027, USA Tel: +1 (212) 854-9266 • Fax: +1 (212) 854-9267 cmc [at] music.columbia.edu Computer Music Center on Facebook Sound Arts program on Facebook Mailing Lists: CMC Announcements More Lists All Materials ©2003–2022 The Computer Music Center at Columbia University, unless otherwise marked. All rights reserved. Read the University copyright policy. Columbia University is committed to providing an accessible and welcoming environment for faculty, staff, students, guests, visitors and members of the public. Contact the Office of Disability Services with questions about physical access to a particular place or event at Columbia. Read the University Statement on Public Access. site by Square Candy Design. Columbia Home Music Dept Home Search form Search