Jump to Navigation Computer Music Center About News & Events People Courses Projects Contact Info for Applicants CMC Archives Studios & Equipment Donate Courses Currently Offered Courses Regularly Offered Courses Course Archive The CMC’s classes are open to qualified undergraduate and graduate students in all departments of Columbia University. Most classes are held in the CMC’s facilities on the third floor of Prentis Hall (632 West 125th St.). Please refer to our Info for Applicants Page for more information on CMC courses and policies. Students may register for CMC courses by logging on to Student Services. Some classes require permission of the instructor, so you won’t be able to register unless you bring a drop/add form to the first class meeting. Please note that both the Intro to Digital Music and Recorded Sound classes have extensive waiting lists, and that registering for either class does not guarantee you a spot. You must sign up on the waiting list and come to the first day of class. We will then admit as many students present as we can. If you have questions about registration please email cmc [at] music.columbia.edu or simply come to the first class meeting and all will be revealed. Currently Offered Courses Sonic and Visual Representation of Data MUSI GR6602 Course Offerings: Spring 2122 – Section 001 - Brad Garton R 6:10pm-8:00pm - 320H Prentis Hall at 632 W 125th St – Call #11449 CourseworksDirectory of Classes ListingSyllabus The Computer Music Center at Columbia University 632 West 125th Street, New York, NY 10027, USA Tel: +1 (212) 854-9266 • Fax: +1 (212) 854-9267 cmc [at] music.columbia.edu Computer Music Center on Facebook Sound Arts program on Facebook Mailing Lists: CMC Announcements More Lists All Materials ©2003–2022 The Computer Music Center at Columbia University, unless otherwise marked. All rights reserved. Read the University copyright policy. Columbia University is committed to providing an accessible and welcoming environment for faculty, staff, students, guests, visitors and members of the public. Contact the Office of Disability Services with questions about physical access to a particular place or event at Columbia. Read the University Statement on Public Access. site by Square Candy Design. Columbia Home Music Dept Home Search form Search