Jump to Navigation Computer Music Center About News & Events People Courses Projects Contact Info for Applicants CMC Archives Studios & Equipment Donate CMC Archives I am conducting research on a composer who worked at the Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center. Is there an archive of old recordings at the CMC? Yes. To find out whether the CMC archive contain works by a particular composer, and for information on how to gain access to the archive, please sc4340 [at] columbia.edu (contact our archive manager). I am organizing a concert on historic electroacoustic music and I would like to feature a work that, to my knowledge, is only available through the CMC archive. Is there a way that I could borrow the recording? Under special circumstances, we may be able to make an analog or digital copy of rare works found in our archive for external use. For more information, please sc4340 [at] columbia.edu (contact our archive manager). I would like to reproduce a photograph from the CMC archive in a book or other publication. How do I get permission to do so? Please contact our sc4340 [at] columbia.edu (archive manager). Mario Davidovsky, Art Krieger, and Pril Smiley at the Electronic Music Center Otto Luening and Vladimir Ussachevsky in the Electronic Music Center in the 1950's RCA Mark II Sound Synthesizer, 1959 Milton Babbitt, Peter Mauzey, and Vladimir Ussachevsky with the RCA Mark II Synthesizer, 1959 Vladimir Ussachevsky's typescript notes on the arrival of the Ampex 400 tape recorder. The Computer Music Center at Columbia University 632 West 125th Street, New York, NY 10027, USA Tel: +1 (212) 854-9266 • Fax: +1 (212) 854-9267 cmc [at] music.columbia.edu Computer Music Center on Facebook Sound Arts program on Facebook Mailing Lists: CMC Announcements More Lists All Materials ©2003–2022 The Computer Music Center at Columbia University, unless otherwise marked. All rights reserved. Read the University copyright policy. Columbia University is committed to providing an accessible and welcoming environment for faculty, staff, students, guests, visitors and members of the public. Contact the Office of Disability Services with questions about physical access to a particular place or event at Columbia. Read the University Statement on Public Access. site by Square Candy Design. Columbia Home Music Dept Home Search form Search