Jump to Navigation Computer Music Center About News & Events People Courses Projects Contact Info for Applicants CMC Archives Studios & Equipment Donate Max Programming Workshop - Machine Listening & Machine Learning for Music Making with FluCoMa Friday, April 15, 2022 - 10:00am to 3:00pm Friday, April 15, 2022 Prentis Hall room 320H Workshop: 10am to noon Open Hacking session: noon to 3pm Free and open to Columbia and Barnard affiliates The Fluid Corpus Manipulation project (FluCoMa) enables musicians to integrate machine listening and machine learning in their creative practice within Max, SuperCollider, and Pure Data. In this workshop we’ll look at using neural networks to control synthesizers, programmatically analyzing and organizing large collections of sound samples, and intelligently decomposing audio files into component parts. Participants will be supported in designing and creating their own project using the FluCoMa toolkit. The Fluid Corpus Manipulation project (FluCoMa) enables musicians to integrate machine listening and machine learning in their creative practice within Max, SuperCollider, and Pure Data (a basic knowledge is needed) FluCoMa offers tools to separate audio into component parts including slicers and spectral decomposition algorithms, audio analysis tools to describe audio components as analytical and statistical representations, data analysis and machine learning algorithms for pattern detection and expressive dataset browsing, and audio morphing and hybridization algorithms for audio remixing, interpolating, and variation-making. In this workshop we’ll look at using neural networks to control synthesizers with a large number of parameters, programmatically analyzing and organizing large collections of sound samples to be explored visually or accessed programmatically, and intelligently decomposing audio files into component parts using tools such as harmonic-percussive source separation and non-negative matrix factorization. All Events The Computer Music Center at Columbia University 632 West 125th Street, New York, NY 10027, USA Tel: +1 (212) 854-9266 • Fax: +1 (212) 854-9267 cmc [at] music.columbia.edu Computer Music Center on Facebook Sound Arts program on Facebook Mailing Lists: CMC Announcements More Lists All Materials ©2003–2022 The Computer Music Center at Columbia University, unless otherwise marked. All rights reserved. Read the University copyright policy. Columbia University is committed to providing an accessible and welcoming environment for faculty, staff, students, guests, visitors and members of the public. Contact the Office of Disability Services with questions about physical access to a particular place or event at Columbia. Read the University Statement on Public Access. site by Square Candy Design. Columbia Home Music Dept Home Search form Search