Skip to main content Social Media Links Skip to main content College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences UCR Home Search Quick Links Find People UC Riverside Cell, Molecular, and Developmental Biology Graduate Program College of Natural & Agricultural Sciences Search People Faculty Current Students Recent Graduates CMDB Graduate Student Association About CMDB Governance Program Officers and Staff CMDB Executive Committee CMDB Bylaws Events Calendar CMDB 257 Seminar Research Groundbreaking Research Research Facilities Student Research Resources Prospective Student Current Students Programs Academic Programs Ph.D. Degree M.S. Degree CMDB Offered Courses Admissions Admissions Info Fees, Housing and Financial Support Contact UCR Home Quick Links Find People Cell, Molecular & Developmental Biology Graduate Program New: CUSP Career mentoring of Underrepresented STEM students for the Professoriate learn more 2022 UCOP Grad Slam Finals Stay tuned as Claire Whitaker, UCR's Grad Slam 2022 Winner, prepares to compete at the UCOP Grad Slam finals on May 6th! Learn More About the Grad Slam Finals Previous Next 70+ PARTICIPATING FACULTY MEMBERS 16 COOPERATING DEPARTMENTS 10 RESEARCH FACILITIES Mission & Vision The mission of the Graduate Program in Cell, Molecular and Developmental Biology (CMDB) is to prepare students for successful research careers in the life sciences, leading to awarding of M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. Our curriculum emphasizes comprehensive and interdisciplinary training in experimental biology at the molecular, cellular and organismal levels, coupled with acquisition of the laboratory skills necessary to generate new knowledge as a research scientist. LEARN MORE Our Research The Interdepartmental Cell, Molecular, and Developmental Biology Graduate Program offers both Doctoral and Masters of Science degrees with a heavy dose of research in basic, applied, agricultural, and biomedical sciences. Our life sciences researchers have access to a genomics institute (with facilities of nucleotide and peptide synthesis, DNA sequencing and cell transformation), cutting-edge microscopy, and a bioinformatics core. Be it bioethics, proteomics or plant cell pathology, the partnerships between faculty and students at CMDB keep them at the forefront of their fields. Read More Science News May 26, 2022 A drunk driver killed her parents. Now she’s graduating to honor them Azalea Corral has a family photo that shows her three younger siblings and parents smiling together against a Santa Barbara countryside backdrop. It was taken on February 8, 2020 — the last time they would pose together for a photo. The following day, both her parents succumbed to bodily injuries after a drunk driver struck them while they were out on their usual evening stroll in Goleta, a community about 12 miles west of Santa Barbara. Corral’s siblings were in the house; she was on a train back to Riverside. Read More » May 24, 2022 Pheromones lure deadly palm weevils to their doom UC Riverside scientists have a new chemical weapon to seduce and kill the invasive, long-nosed beetles destroying California palm trees by the tens of thousands. Read More » May 19, 2022 New strategies to save the world’s most indispensable grain A UC Riverside-led team has learned what happens to the roots of rice plants when they’re confronted with two types of stressful scenarios: too much water, or too little. These observations form the basis of new protective strategies. Read More » May 17, 2022 Remembering ‘isotope queen’ Marilyn Fogel, pioneering scientist, beloved mentor Marilyn Fogel, endowed geoecology professor at UC Riverside, died on May 11 in Mariposa, Calif. She was 69. She pioneered the use of isotopes to understand the life history of organisms, both modern and ancient. In so doing, she helped develop biogeochemistry as a new field of science and earned the moniker ‘isotope queen.’ Read More » Read More University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Cell, Molecular and Developmental Biology 1140 Bachelor Hall Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-7378 fax: (951) 827-5517 email: cmdb@ucr.edu Find Us COLLEGE OF NATURAL & AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES CNAS Dean's Office Geology Building, Room 2258 900 University Ave Riverside, CA 92521 Related Links About Faculty Prospective Students Seminars Contact CNAS Home Give Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Let us help you with your search × Enter your Search Criteria Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel