Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Yale MacMillan Center Council on Middle East Studies About People Core Faculty Affiliate Faculty Emeritus Faculty Visiting Scholars Fox Fellows World Fellows Staff Alumni Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Major Graduate Certificate M.A. / Ph.D. Fields of Study Courses Programs Program in Iranian Studies Arabic Program Modern Hebrew Program Affiliated Programs Grants Events Events Calendar CMES Colloquium Spring 2022 Iran Colloquium Spring 2022 Videos Call for Papers: 30 years after Richard M. Frank News Resources Library Resources Career Resources Visual Resources of the Middle East (VRME) K-12 Outreach Past Events Summer Institute 2022 Summer Institute 2021 Summer Institute Video Summer Institute 2021 Schedule Resources CMES Home News A Thousand Strange Places: Anthony Shadid and the Middle East On April 29-30, Yale MacMillan’s Council on Middle East Studies (CMES), in partnership with the Alwaleed Center for American Studies and Research (CASAR) at the American... Eve Arnold in the Trucial States: The United Arab Emirates before Federation Kishwar Rizvi, Professor in the History of Art, Islamic Art and Architecture, wrote the following article that appeared in Platform, a digital forum for conversations about... Dr. Marcia Inhorn named one of the most influential anthropologists Yale Anthropology’s Marcia Inhorn was recently named one of the most influential anthropologists by AcademicInfluence.com, a company that uses machine learning algorithms to... Alumni Spotlight Series: Alejandra Padin-Dujon YC ’18 The following interview is part of the Council on Middle East Studies’ Alumni Spotlight series featuring graduates from the Bachelor’s Degree in Modern Middle East Studies.... CMES Faculty Jonas Elbousty Interviews Algerian Writer Ahlam Mosteghanemi in Arab Lit Quarterly Bestselling Algerian novelist and poet Ahlam Mosteghanemi began publishing in the 1970s and remains one of the most popular and beloved authors writing in Arabic. She is also... Op-Ed: Columbus’ fear of Islam, rooted in Europe’s Crusades, shaped his view of Native Americans The following op-ed written by Alan Mikhail, Chace Family Professor of History and Chair of the Department of History, appears today’s Los Angeles Times: In all that has been... More news CMES Colloquium - Spring 2022 Upcoming Events Featured Videos CMES Colloquium: Aaron Rock-Singer, University of Wisconsin Link to full video CMES Colloquium: Gustavo Barbosa, Universidade Federal Fluminense Link to full video more Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Council on Middle East Studies at the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale. Subscribe to our mailing list | Contact