Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Tunisia Alumni Connect with Us Search HOME About History Connect with Us Contact & Directions Academics Applying to CMES AB/AM Program AM Program PhD Programs Language Study Courses Center for Arabic Study Abroad Research & Activities By Region & Country By Field & Topic Visiting Researcher Program Projects & Initiatives Publications People Faculty Graduate Students Research Associates Visiting Researchers Administration & Staff News & Events Seminar & Lecture Series Conference & Workshops News & Multimedia Resources Mideast Mailing List Funding Opportunities CMES Tunisia Opportunities Winter Term in Turkey Student Jobs Resources for K-12 Educators Crossroads Emerging Leaders Program Covid-19 Information Yo-Yo Ma Comes to Tunisia, with a Little Help from CMES Yo-Yo Ma ’76 and his Bach Project visited Tunisia in March 2022 Q&A with CMES Tunisia’s Sihem Lamine CMES Tunisia's Administrative and Program Manager has welcomed students and faculty to Tunisia for over six years Journal of Middle Eastern Politics and Policy, Spring 2022 Edition Read the Spring 2022 issue of JMEPP, edited by Ghazi Ghazi and with contributions from Christina Bouri and Sumaya Malas A Tribute to Herbert C. Kelman Sara Roy and Lenore Martin remember a giant in the fields of social and political psychology and international conflict Muqarnas Volume 38 Now Available Including articles on Ottoman Tunisia by members of the CMES community: Youssef Ben Ismail, Sihem Lamine, and Ridha Moumni Readings and Digital Resources on Palestine CMES faculty Rosie Bsheer and Cemal Kafadar recommend materials and resources to contextualize current events in Palestine Readings on Race and Slavery Rosie Bsheer and Cemal Kafadar recommend a selection of books with specific relevance for Middle East studies Covid-19 Updates and Information Covid-19 and return-to-campus information and resources at Harvard University NEWS & MULTIMEDIA Q&A with CMES Tunisia’s Sihem Lamine Monday, May 9, 2022 Yo-Yo Ma Comes to Tunisia, with a Little Help from CMES Friday, May 6, 2022 Journal of Middle Eastern Politics and Policy, Spring 2022 Edition Friday, April 8, 2022 A Tribute to Herbert C. Kelman Tuesday, March 22, 2022 More news and multimedia RECENT BOOKS BY FACULTY & ALUMNI Granara, William. Ibn Hamdis the Sicilian: Eulogist for a Falling Homeland. Oneworld Publications, 2021. Publisher's VersionAbstract ‘Abd al-Jabbar ibn Hamdis (1055-1133) survives as the best-known figure from four centuries of Arab-Islamic civilisation on the island of Sicily. There he grew up in a society enriched by a century of cultural development but whose unity was threatened by competing warlords. After the Normans invaded, he followed many other Muslims in emigrating, first to North Africa and then to Seville, where he began his career as a court poet. Although he achieved fame and success in his time, Ibn Hamdis was forced to bear witness to sectarian strife among the Muslims of both Sicily and Spain, and the gradual success of the Christian reconquest, including the decline of his beloved homeland. Through his verse, William Granara examines his life and times. Ilıcak, H. Şükrü, ed. Those Infidel Greeks: The Greek War of Independence through Ottoman Archival Documents. Brill, 2021. Publisher's VersionAbstract The documents edited by H. Şükrü Ilıcak in Those Indel Greeks comprise the English translations of select documents from the Ayniyat Registers on the Greek War of Independence preserved in the Ottoman State Archives. The primary importance of these documents is that they are a clear testimony of the larger imperial context in which the Greek War of Independence evolved and proved successful. The mass of information they contain is immense and allows the reader to follow on an almost day-to-day basis how an empire tried to suppress a national uprising—the rst of its kind in the early nineteenth century. Contributors: Çağrı Erdoğan, H. Şükrü Ilıcak, Nikola Rakovski, Mehmet Savan, Kahraman Şakul, and Aysel Yıldız. This is a co-publication with the Aikaterini Laskaridis Foundation. Granara, William, and Ibrahim Akel, ed. The Thousand and One Nights: Sources and Transformations in Literature, Art, and Science. Brill, 2020. Publisher's VersionAbstract The Thousand and One Nights does not fall into a scholarly canon or into the category of popular literature. It takes its place within a middle literature that circulated widely in medieval times. The Nights gradually entered world literature through the great novels of the day and through music, cinema and other art forms. Material inspired by the Nights has continued to emerge from many different countries, periods, disciplines and languages, and the scope of the Nights has continued to widen, making the collection a universal work from every point of view. The essays in this volume scrutinize the expanse of sources for this monumental work of Arabic literature and follow the trajectory of the Nights’ texts, the creative, scholarly commentaries, artistic encounters and relations to science. Contributors: Ibrahim Akel, Rasoul Aliakbari, Daniel Behar, Aboubakr Chraïbi, Anne E. Duggan, William Granara, Rafika Hammoudi, Dominique Jullien, Abdelfattah Kilito, Magdalena Kubarek, Michael James Lundell, Ulrich Marzolph, Adam Mestyan, Eyüp Özveren, Marina Paino, Daniela Potenza, Arafat Abdur Razzaque, Ahmed Saidy, Johannes Thomann and Ilaria Vitali. Alimagham, Pouya. Contesting the Iranian Revolution: The Green Uprisings. Cambridge University Press, 2020. Publisher's VersionAbstract Most observers of Iran viewed the Green Uprisings of 2009 as a 'failed revolution', with many Iranians and those in neighbouring Arab countries agreeing. In Contesting the Iranian Revolution, however, Pouya Alimagham re-examines this evaluation, deconstructing the conventional win-lose binary interpretations in a way which underscores the subtle but important victories on the ground, and reveals how Iran's modern history imbues those triumphs with consequential meaning. Focusing on the men and women who made this dynamic history, and who exist at the centre of these contentious politics, this 'history from below' brings to the fore the post-Islamist discursive assault on the government's symbols of legitimation. From powerful symbols rooted in Shiʿite Islam, Palestinian liberation, and the Iranian Revolution, Alimagham harnesses the wider history of Iran and the Middle East to highlight how activists contested the Islamic Republic's legitimacy to its very core. More recent publications Quick Links AM Program PhD Programs Center for Arabic Study Abroad CMES Tunisia Office Faculty Directory Visiting Researcher Program Alumni Information Harvard Worldwide Connect with CMES Subscribe to the Mideast List Sign up for weekly emails Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Join our LinkedIn group Contact us Attend a CMES event Twitter HarvardCMES t.co/axkiXQF3wc CMES Events & Updates -- Week of 5/9/22 t.co/b17wxNQVEV 3 weeks 2 days ago. HarvardCMES t.co/cI4naM3RBv CMES Events & Updates -- Week of 5/2/22 t.co/A89SyfNhYU t.co/dzm5lKwCIO 1 month 1 hour ago. Follow CMES on twitter THE CENTER FOR MIDDLE EASTERN STUDIES | HARVARD UNIVERSITY Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College https://www.facebook.com/HarvardCMES/ https://twitter.com/harvardcmes?lang=en https://vimeo.com/harvardcmes https://www.instagram.com/harvardcmes/ https://www.linkedin.com/groups/5040292 38 Kirkland Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA P: 617.495.4055 F: 617.496.8584 cmes@fas.harvard.edu 50b77f2e236c59a3d94ef4bd633a1f79 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement