Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved About The Counseling and Mental Health Center Business Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Appointment-Scheduling hours are Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to noon & 1 to 4 p.m. Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor Meet the Staff Downloads 2020/2021 Impact Statement 2019/2020 Impact Statement 2018/2019 Impact Statement 2017/2018 Impact Statement 2016/2017 Impact Statement 2015/2016 Impact Statement 2014/2015 Impact Statement Statement on Diversity Mission and Values UHS-CMHC Organization Chart (PDF) Services and Programs Groups and Classes For many issues that college students face, group counseling is the best treatment choice. Group counseling provides students with the unique opportunity of utilizing peer interaction to work toward their goals. Short-Term Individual Counseling Short-term individual counseling is basically a collaborative effort between you and your counselor. Our goal is to provide an open, supportive, and confidential environment for you to address the issues that are concerning you. Thrive at UT Thrive is a free iPhone app designed to enhance UT Austin student well-being and help better manage the ups and downs of campus life. Students will find short videos of actual UT Austin students sharing their own stories as well as interactive activities designed to help them apply these concepts to their own unique experience. 24/7 CMHC Crisis Line CMHC Crisis Line is a confidential service of CMHC that offers an opportunity for UT-Austin students to talk with trained counselors about urgent concerns. A counselor is available every day of the year, including holidays. Alcohol & Other Drug Initial Consultations Students can confidentially speak with a licensed professional counselor about their own or someone else's use of alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs. Mindful Eating Program Our Mindful Eating Program is for students dealing with food, weight, or body image concerns. MindBody Lab The MindBody Lab is a self-paced environment located in the Counseling and Mental Health Center on the 5th floor of the Student Services Building designed to help students explore interactive tools to help cope with stress. Integrated Health Program The Integrated Health Program is a collaboration between University Health Services and the Counseling and Mental Health Center at The University of Texas at Austin. This program brings mental health providers to University Health Services, creating a holistic team approach in the treatment of UHS patients. Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) CARE counselors are located within the colleges they serve. They are licensed mental health professionals and work with students who have been referred by faculty and staff. CARE's primary mission is to provide access to mental health support for students who are struggling emotionally and/or academically. Prevention and Outreach Prevention and Outreach: CMHC's Prevention and Outreach services empower students to take care of themselves and each other in order to foster a thriving academic community at UT Austin. Our programs raise awareness, reduce stigma about mental health concerns, address barriers to academic excellence in order to promote wellness. Mission: Healthyhorns enhances the health and well-being of students’ bodies, minds and lives in support of their academic and personal goals. Values: Compassion: Offering and promoting care, open communication, respect, honesty, teamwork and integrity for our staff and students. Diversity and Inclusivity: Cultivating an inclusive environment that values and promotes the understanding of differences and enhances our ability to meet the needs of our diverse student, staff and trainee population. Excellence: Providing evidence-informed, high quality and innovative healthcare, customer service, education and public health practice. Fiscal Responsibility: Providing responsible and ethical stewardship of our resources while considering the cost of care for our students. Privacy and Confidentiality: Ensuring the protection of students’ personal information is of utmost importance; all legal and ethical standards are upheld. Staff Development: Ensuring an organizational commitment to the development of awareness, knowledge and skills as a lifelong process. Student-Centeredness: Prioritizing students’ needs and well-being in every aspect of our work. Student Empowerment and Learning: Offering information, strategies and additional perspectives to develop students’ health literacy and confidence in navigating life circumstances and relationships. Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet