Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Short-Term Individual Counseling Business Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm Appointment-Scheduling hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00am-12:00pm & 1:00pm-4:00pm Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor College life can often be challenging and stressful. Students can experience challenges in a number of different ways. Many students feel anxious, depressed, confused, or overwhelmed at some point during their college experience and need help dealing with feelings or problems that seem beyond their control. For college students, that help may come from friends, family, significant others, or mentors but in some cases, help is needed from a trained professional. Counseling is a process that can help people identify more effective strategies to cope with difficult situations and achieve their goals. While some people who seek counseling have chronic emotional difficulties, most are dealing with normal life events and are simply in need of an objective listener - someone who doesn't judge and who can help them see new alternatives. Short-Term Individual Counseling Services at CMHC ELIGIBILITY Currently enrolled UT students are eligible to receive services through CMHC. However, eligibility to individual counseling services may vary due to severity, appropriateness of services, and availability of resources. COUNSELING SERVICES CMHC offers short-term individual counseling services. A BART (Brief Assessment and Referral Team) counselor will help you determine which services are available and most appropriate. Students might be scheduled with a counselor at CMHC or they may be referred to an off-campus counselor. Off-campus counselors offer more flexibility for students to be seen more frequently or long-term and are also able to provide more specialized services. You’ll speak on the phone to a BART (Brief Assessment and Referral Team) counselor who will talk with you, gather some information about you (e.g., name, phone number, whether you have been to CMHC before), briefly assess your needs, and make treatment recommendation(s) based on their professional opinion and in collaboration with you. CMHC COUNSELORS Counseling services are provided by licensed psychologists, social workers, and professional counselors. Services may also be provided by other mental health professionals, some of whom are in training. All professionals-in-training are supervised by licensed staff. RECORDS Information you share during contact with CMHC will be treated with the strictest confidentiality as allowed by law. In accordance with ethical and legal standards, this information will not be disclosed to anyone without your written consent, except in very specific circumstances as required by law. Counseling records are entirely separate from your academic record. Learn About Confidentiality at CMHC Topics Who Can Benefit From Counseling? When to Seek Counseling What Happens During my Counseling Appointment? What if I Have To Cancel My Appointment? How to Get the Most Out of Your Counseling Experience Community Counseling/Mental Health Resources Off-Campus Who can benefit from counseling? Just about anyone can benefit. No problem is too big or small. Listed below are just a few examples of some common concerns which bring students to CMHC: Symptoms of stress, anxiety, and depression College adjustment issues such as homesickness, academic problems, and long-distance relationships Interpersonal difficulties, including roommate conflicts, family problems, romantic relationship concerns, problems with assertiveness, and other issues Bereavement and grief related to the loss of a loved one (such as relationship breakups, deaths, parental divorce, or other major losses) Questions/confusion about identity, self-image, sexuality, gender, or religious concerns Concerns about body image, food, eating, or weight, as well as treatment for eating disorders Experience with sexual assault, relationship violence, stalking, abuse, or other trauma Thoughts of suicide, death, or hurting others Behaviors that can be harmful to you, like drug or alcohol abuse or cutting When to Seek Counseling Our counselors are trained to intervene or provide support for a countless number of issues, far too many to list in any comprehensive way. While counseling might be helpful in numerous situations, there are some conditions in which we would strongly encourage you to seek counseling services: You are unhappy on most days or feel a sense of hopelessness You worry excessively or are constantly on edge You are unable to concentrate on your schoolwork or other activities You are unable to sleep at night or constantly feel tired You have experienced a change in your appetite or your weight You have experienced a loss (e.g., a relationship breakup, a parent's death) You have increased your use of alcohol or other drugs (including cigarettes) You feel overwhelmed by what is going on in your life You are having thoughts about hurting yourself or someone else How to Get the Most Out of Your Counseling Experience Define your goals. Think about what you would like to get out of counseling. It might be helpful to write a list of events, relationship issues, or feelings that you think are contributing to your distress. Take time before each session to consider your expectations for that session. Self-exploration and change involve hard work, and sometimes painful feelings are stirred up in the process of healing. Counselors are trained to pay close attention to these issues and will probably encourage you to discuss these feelings openly. Be an active participant. This is your counseling experience, so be as active as you can in deciding how to use the time. Be honest with the counselor and give her or him feedback about how you see the sessions progressing. Be patient with yourself. Growth takes time, effort, and patience. All of your coping skills, behavior patterns, and self-perceptions have been learned and reinforced over a long period of time, so change can be difficult and slow at times. Ask questions. Ask questions about the counseling process, any methods used by the counselor, or about any other services at CMHC. Your counselor is there to assist you. Follow your counselor's recommendations. Take the time between sessions to complete any activities suggested by your counselor. Counseling is intended to improve your life in the "real world," so making efforts to try out and practice new behaviors, approaches, or ways of thinking could be a crucial element to the success of your counseling experience. What Happens During My Counseling Appointment? If you and a BART counselor determine that individual counseling at CMHC is the treatment recommendation that best meets your needs, you will then be offered the first available appointment that matches your schedule. If you have particular counselor preferences, this might increase the time you have to wait for your first appointment. Your appointment will usually be scheduled within a few days to a few weeks. (Please note that if you are in need of immediate help, inform our staff so that we can connect you to the appropriate CMHC resources immediately.) You’ll be asked to complete some paperwork, including a demographic and clinical history form, treatment agreement, consent to treatment, and a notice of privacy practices. Your counselor will obtain information about your current concerns, relevant history and goals. Your counselor also will review relevant CMHC policies and procedures, such as confidentiality. For subsequent or follow-up sessions, you will meet with your counselor for 45-minutes, weekly for a specified period of time. If you would like additional counseling beyond what CMHC can provide, then we will work with you to find a counselor in the Austin community. Early on, you will work with your counselor to set goals for your counseling sessions. Establishing clear goals will provide direction as well as help you to monitor your progress in counseling. If you have any questions or concerns about the counseling process, don't hesitate to bring these up with your counselor, who will be pleased to discuss them with you. The exact direction of your counseling experience will depend on the issues you bring into counseling, your counselor's perspective, and the goals you set for your work together. What if I Have to Cancel My Appointment? Call the front desk at (512) 471-3515 as soon as possible after you become aware that you cannot come to your appointment. You can leave a message on the voice mail if you are calling outside of business hours. There is a $25 fee for missed or canceled appointments that are NOT canceled 24 hours in advance of your appointment. How to communicate with my counselor between sessions Secure Messaging: By clicking on the My CMHC to login and send your counselor a secure message. This is a secure and confidential way to communicate with your counselor. CMHC staff does not respond to messages sent via regular email. To insure consistent communication keep your e-mail current with the University. Learn more about Secure Messaging Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet