Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Depression CMHC Business Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor Topics Common symptoms of depression The causes of depression What you can do about depression Depression resources at UT Depression reading list How to know if you are depressed Depression has been called "the common cold of mental health." We all know that everybody feels down or pessimistic from time to time. That's normal. Many people wonder, "When does feeling down cross the line into depression?" That's a tough question, because it's not always an either-or kind of thing. In considering whether you need help with depression, it might be useful to consider the following three dimensions: frequency, severity and duration. Three Dimensions of Depression Frequency: How often do you feel down or depressed? Every day? Three times a week? Once a month? All the time? Severity: How bad is it? Do you feel suicidal? Totally hopeless and stuck in a dark hole? Or just kind of lousy and negative? Suicide Duration: How long does it last? Until you see your partner? Until you go home for the weekend? Just a couple of hours? Does it drag on for days, weeks, or even months? Have you felt somewhat depressed your whole life? Common symptoms of depression Physical sleeping much more or much less than usual eating much more or much less than usual feeling fatigued, lacking energy frequent headaches, stomachaches, or otherwise inexplicable aches and pains Behavioral/Attitude diminished interest in and enjoyment of previously pleasurable activities, such as going out with friends, sports, hobbies, sex, etc. difficulty concentrating or making decisions neglecting responsibilities and personal appearance Emotional depressed mood-this can mean feeling down, irritable, pessimistic, guilty, anxious, empty, etc. suicidal thoughts feeling hopeless and helpless feelings of worthlessness The causes of depression Sometimes we know exactly why we're depressed -- such as when we've experienced a difficult breakup or the death of a close friend or family member. Other times, however, the reasons for our depression are not quite as clear. There may not be one cause, but a variety of factors that accumulate over time and lead us to feel demoralized and depressed. And sometimes, with factors like low self-esteem or anxiety, it may be almost impossible to say which causes which. Do low self-esteem and anxiety cause depression? Or does depression cause low self-esteem and anxiety? Or both? Possible Contributing Factors to Depression Environmental: Cramped living conditions, bad roommate situation, money problems, car problems, holidays you're not looking forward to, having a tough time with classes, too much pressure on you, feeling helpless to change your environment, loss of something significant (a job, a dream, etc.), being victimized (assault, robbery, rape, etc.). Interpersonal: Relationship problems or breakup, conflicts with family members, death of a significant person in your life, the anniversary of a loss, feeling like people are taking advantage of you, unresolved anger or guilt, feeling helpless to make changes in important relationships. Physical/Medical/Biological: Genetic predisposition (depression runs in the family), chemical imbalances, dealing with illness or infection, sleep deprivation, chronic anxiety. Diet/Exercise: Getting by on fast food, sugar, caffeine, alcohol, and other relatively non-nutritious items, substance abuse, lack of exercise. Thought Patterns: Self-criticism, pessimistic thinking, expecting the worst. Spiritual/Existential/Philosophical: Doubts about the meaning of life, questions about your own religious beliefs, a sense that you're somehow missing out on your true calling or that you're not being true to yourself, your dreams, your beliefs. What you can do about depression Some Self-Help Options There are actually a lot of things you can do about depression. The most important thing is that you do something positive and constructive. You might start by getting yourself some paper and a pen and make headings for all the factors previously described: Environmental, Interpersonal, Physical/Medical, etc. Make a list of any problems, concerns, or negative feelings you have that relate to each of the areas. It also helps to identify which of the areas are sources of strength, support, and positive feelings. Depression can leave you feeling helpless and out of control of your life, your thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. The goal is to get to the point where you feel like you can do something to improve your situation and life. So any changes you can make for the better, though they may not "fix" the depression or make it go away immediately, are definitely worth doing. As you break your concerns down into smaller, more manageable contributing parts, some solutions may become clear to you. For instance, you may realize that relationship problems are a key contributor to your depression, and decide that assertiveness or communications training would really help remedy that situation. Or you might notice that for you the symptoms are largely physical and choose to get a medical checkup to rule out other possible problems. Perhaps parental pressures and expectations have been burdening you and you'll decide to have that long, honest talk with your parents. Go over each area and do your own self-assessment, then write down what you think it would take to help the situation. Draw from the following list to come up with possible solutions. This list includes strategies that have proven beneficial to people struggling with feelings of depression. Develop a healthier, more balanced diet. Junk food, caffeine, alcohol, drugs, and cigarettes can all have a negative impact on your mood. Get regular exercise and sufficient sleep. For exercise, walking is fine. The times when you don't feel like exercising may be when you need to do it most. Cutting yourself short on sleep can really contribute to a downward spiral in other areas. Develop stress-management and time-management skills. These will be very helpful in surviving school and keeping yourself from feeling overwhelmed. Stress Check in with how you're feeling regularly. Learn to be aware of your feelings; don't let them build up to the point where they overwhelm you, bring you down, and cause even bigger problems in your life. Develop and use a support system. Everyone goes through difficult periods in their lives. If you're experiencing one of these times, don't be afraid to talk about it with someone you care about. Let him or her know what you need: "I don't need you to fix my problems, I just need somebody to listen" or "I just want to vent and blow off some steam." What If Self-Help Is Not Enough? Many of the suggestions provided above are things you can do on your own. For many of us, though, it's difficult to get ourselves going, and we may prefer to seek the help of a professional counselor to help us move past that stuck point. If you have been stuck for a long time, or if you are at the point where you are seriously neglecting important aspects of your life or even thinking about suicide, it is imperative that you seek professional help. Suicide A professional can assist you in getting the help you need, whether that is counseling/psychotherapy, anti-depressant medications, or a combination of the two. For many people, just being able to talk about their problems and get some support can be very helpful. In other cases, medication can be helpful or even necessary for the person to "lift the cloud" and function better. Medications and Psychiatric Services Remember, you don't have to live like this. Depressive feelings are common, and we have given you some ideas about how to work on them yourself. If the depression feels too frequent, too overwhelming, or lasts too long (remember frequency, duration, and severity), it's time to seek professional help, either at the Counseling and Mental Health Center or from a qualified professional in the community. Short-Term Individual Counseling Group Counseling Short-Term Individual Counseling CMHC Crisis Line Remember, depression IS treatable. Resources at UT Counseling and Mental Health Center: 512-471-3515 CMHC Crisis Line (24 hours/day, 7 days/week): 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Services for Students with Disabilities: 512-471-6259 University Health Services: 512-475-6877 Reading list Breaking the Patterns of Depression by Michael D. Yapko (New York, Doubleday, 1997). (Available at UT Libraries) The Depression Workbook: A Guide for Living With Depression and Manic Depression by Mary Ellen Copeland and Wayne London (Oakland: New Harbinger, 1992). Feeling Good: The New Mood Therapy by David Burns (New York: William Morrow & Co., 1980). (Available at UT Libraries; also at the Longhorn Wellness Center.) The Feeling Good Handbook by David Burns (New York: William Morrow & Co., 1989). (Available at the Longhorn Wellness Center.) Learned Optimism: How To Change Your Mind and Your Life by Martin Seligman (New York: Simon & Schuster, Inc., 1990) (Available at the Longhorn Wellness Center.) You Are Not Alone: Words of Experience and Hope for the Journey Through Depression by Julia Thorne, Larry Bethstein (New York: Harper Collins, 1993). Mind over Mood: Change How You Feel by Changing the Way You Think by D. Greenberger & C.A. Padesky (New York: The Guilford Press, 1995). (Available at the Longhorn Wellness Center.) Transforming Depression: Healing the Soul through Creativity by David H. Rosen (Maine: Nicolas-Hays, 2002). Where can I find help? UT's Counseling & Mental Health Center (CMHC) Call 512-471-3515 for information on setting up an appointment with a counselor. CMHC also offers the CMHC Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL for a telephone counselor. Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet