Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved When a Friend is in Distress Crisis A crisis is a situation in which a person's coping mechanisms are no longer working. By definition, it is a highly unpleasant emotional state. The nature of a crisis can be highly subjective and personal, and its severity can range from mild to life-threatening. But regardless of its nature, a crisis should always be taken seriously and responded to as swiftly as possible. When a person is in a state of emotional crisis, you might see or hear the following: Extreme agitation or panic References to or threats of suicide, or other types of self-harm Threats of assault, both verbal and physical Highly disruptive behavior: physical or verbal hostility; violence; destruction of property Inability to communicate (for example, slurred or garbled speech; disjointed thoughts) Disorientation; confusion; loss of contact with conventional reality What you should do: If someone you know is exhibiting some of the above behaviors-particularly if you believe there exists imminent danger that the person might harm either him/herself or someone else - you should immediately call for assistance (on campus, call UTPD at 512-471-4441; off campus, call 911). If you are unsure how to respond to the situation, call the Behavior Concerns Advice Line at 512-232-5050. Behavior Concerns Advice Line You should not take it upon yourself to approach someone who is highly agitated or violent or decide by yourself what is in the person's best interests. For your safety - as well as that of others and the person in distress - those decisions should be left to trained professionals. Protecting your own safety and wellbeing - Recognizing the limits of what you can and can't do: In dealing with a distressed person, your own safety and wellbeing are just as important as that of the person in distress. Recognizing the limits of what you can and can't do to help someone else is a crucial part of this. What you can do: Be genuinely concerned and supportive Be honest with yourself about how much time and effort you can afford to spend in helping Be aware of your own needs and seek support for yourself Maintain and respect healthy boundaries What you can't do: Control how another person is going to respond to you Decide for another person whether or not s/he wants help or wants to change Although everyone feels "stressed" at times, excessive stress (i.e., distress) can manifest itself in a number of ways. Although the following list is by no means all-inclusive, you should suspect that a person might be distressed if any of the following apply to him / her: Trouble sleeping Vague physical aches and pains and / or lack of energy Loss of interest in activities that s/he once enjoyed Depressed or lethargic mood Lack of motivation Excessive tension or worry Restlessness; hyperactivity; pressured speech Excessive alcohol or drug use Decline in academic performance; drop in class attendance Social withdrawal Changes in eating patterns Self-injury (cutting; scratching; burning) Unusual or exaggerated response to events (e.g., overly suspicious; overly agitated; easily startled) How to help: Suicide Warning Signs Below are a number of suggestions about what to do for a distressed person for whom you are concerned - or if such a person comes to you. Take the person aside and talk to him / her in private. Try to give the other person your undivided attention. Just a few minutes of listening might enable him or her to make a decision about what to do. Listen carefully and with sensitivity. Listen in an open minded and nonjudgmental way. Be honest and direct, but nonjudgmental. Share what you have observed and why it concerns you. For example: "I've noticed that you've been missing class a lot lately and you aren't answering your phone or text messages like you used to. I'm worried about you." Note that distress often comes from conflicting feelings or demands. Acknowledge this, and from time to time, paraphrase what the other person is saying. For example: "It sounds like on the one hand, you very much want to please your family but on the other hand, you aren't sure that what they want for you is what you really want to do." Make a referral. Direct the person to the Counseling and Mental Health Center (CMHC). Encourage him or her to call and make an appointment right then and there. Even better yet: offer to accompany him or her to CMHC. Follow up. Let the person know that you'll be checking back with him or her later to see how things turned out. Responding in a caring way to a person in distress can help prevent the distressed person's situation from escalating into a crisis. Supporting a friend with a mental health concern can be one of the most important parts of their success in dealing with it. A final reminder: When responding to a person in need, you don't have to do it all alone! When in doubt about how to handle a crisis situation, you can always enlist the help of the Behavior Concerns Advice Line (512-232-5050). Behavior Concerns Advice Line This line is staffed 24 hours/day, 7 days/week by trained professionals. Information about our Suicide Prevention program, Be that One Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet