Skip to content About Us Contact Toggle navigation The Whole Student Conditions for Well-being Social connectedness Mindfulness and stress reduction Growth mindset Resilience Sleep Promotion Gratitude Inclusivity Self-compassion and empathy Life purpose Creating Effective Learning Environments In-class instructional practices Outside of class activiites Departmental activities Resources Project resources University resources Supporting students in distress 40 Assets for Forty Acres References Acknowledgements Collaborating Faculty Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School LBJ School of Public Affairs Steve Hicks School of Social Work McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Nursing The Whole Student Conditions for Well-being Social connectedness Mindfulness and stress reduction Growth mindset Resilience Sleep Promotion Gratitude Inclusivity Self-compassion and empathy Life purpose Creating Effective Learning Environments In-class instructional practices Outside of class activiites Departmental activities Resources Project resources University resources Supporting students in distress Forty Assets for Forty Acres References Acknowledgements Participating Faculty College of Education Cockrell School of Engineering College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School LBJ School of Public Affairs Steve Hicks School of Social Work McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Nursing Well-being in Virtual Learning Environments Just as you support student well-being in in-person classes, you can support student well-being in your online courses. This collection of resources and ideas will help build mental health support into your online courses. Go to web page Texas Well-being Canvas Course To help faculty support student wellness, we continue to add resources to our Well-being in Learning Environments Canvas course, including well-being modules that faculty can import from the Canvas Commons to use in their own courses. Get added to the course Mental Health Conversations Mental Health Conversations is a simulation platform that allows faculty, staff and students to practice having important and life-saving conversations with students who are experiencing distress and/or suicidal ideation. The platform also teaches participants when and how to make a referral to campus mental health resources. Go to web page Texas Well-being Promoting Well-being in UT Learning Environments View the transcript of this video HOW TO USE THIS SITE Think of the information on this site as you would a menu. It provides a variety of strategies, tools and resources from which to pick and choose. The strategies on this site are based on research. They are also based on ideas and techniques that other University of Texas faculty have found to be effective in supporting student well-being. When considering the strategies or ideas you’d like to try, think about your personal interactions and teaching style. Not every strategy is the right fit, so pick one that feels comfortable and do it well. Some are easier than others to embed. According to students, some of the simplest ideas can have a huge impact when done authentically. ANOTHER LENS FOR USING THE WEBSITE Texas Well-being has begun to collaborate with the SHIFT initiative here at UT. SHIFT and Texas Well-being both aim to support faculty in their efforts to create a healthy environment for student learning and success. Throughout this website you will see references to the “40 Assets for the Forty Acres,” a framework grounded in evidence-based practices from the Search Institute. These assets are protective factors proven to lead to student success while also mitigating risk for substance misuse and other potential challenges related to a student’s mental health. These protective factors offer another lens through which we can view and support thriving academic environments. Please reference the Resources for a list of the 40 Assets. Throughout this website, these assets are identified by the icons provided in the key. Click on an icon to learn more about actions you can take to implement the assets in your learning environments. To learn more about SHIFT and how you might join the conversation, visit shift.utexas.edu. 40 Assets for the Forty Acres SUPPORT EMPOWERMENT BOUNDARIES & EXPECTATIONS CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF TIME COMMITMENT TO LEARNING POSITIVE VALUES SOCIAL COMPETENCIES POSITIVE IDENTITY I’M IN KIND OF A LARGER CLASS, BUT MY PROFESSOR KNOWS EVERY PERSON’S NAME BY WEEK TWO… I REALLY APPRECIATED IT. I THINK THAT SMALL THING MAKES A HUGE DIFFERENCE. —Student The whole student ©2021 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Reoport a Bias Incident Make a Gift Intranet ©2021 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Reoport a Bias Incident Make a Gift Intranet