Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Integrated Health Program (IHP) Business Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm Appointment-Scheduling hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00am-12:00pm & 1:00pm-4:00pm Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor Topics What the Integrated Health Program offers students Why would I need to be referred to a counselor in IHP? How has Mindfulness been used? The Integrated Health Program is a collaboration between University Health Services and the Counseling and Mental Health Center at The University of Texas at Austin. This program brings mental health providers to University Health Services, creating a holistic team approach in the treatment of UHS patients. The Integrated Health Program has also initiated classes, programs, and other interventions available to students through the Counseling and Mental Health Center. The Integrated Health team consists of psychologists, clinical social workers, and psychiatrists. This program uses the concept of mindfulness as the foundation of its approach to health. We emphasize a broad definition of health which views optimal health as the integration of physical, psychological, emotional, relational, and spiritual well being. What the Integrated Health Program offers students Initial consultations with IH counselors to address students' health goals Brief individual counseling Guidance in managing issues such as anxiety, depression, and self esteem Transitional support services and referrals to helpful resources at the University MindBody Lab for self-paced stress reduction interventions MindBody Lab Psychiatric services, when indicated Referrals for other needed services in the Austin community Why would my UHS provider refer me to a counselor in Integrated Health Program? Sometimes behavioral/lifestyle changes or psychological interventions can be quite helpful in addressing the symptoms that prompted you to consult a UHS medical provider. Common referrals to an Integrated Health counselor include: Stress Insomnia Anxiety Fatigue Headaches GI distress Depression Chronic pain Relationship problems High blood pressure Chronic health conditions Unexplained physical symptoms These are only some of the reasons why a UHS medical provider might want to include a counselor as part of your treatment team. With the emphasis on an integrated approach to health, the counselor can assist you in identifying different factors affecting your health. "The journey toward health... is nothing less than an invitation to wake up to the fullness of our lives..." – Jon Kabat-Zinn Mindfulness Mindfulness is the foundation of the IHP approach to health. Mindfulness is the practice of paying attention purposefully in the present moment. By practicing mindfulness, we can begin to see more clearly how the choices we make affect our health and this in turn can promote change. Diminished awareness of the present moment severely limits our ability to see the variety of choices that we have in responding to any given situation. Instead, we tend to react automatically and get locked into self-defeating patterns, making change very difficult. Through learning to practice mindfulness, we can empower ourselves to take a more active role in our health and well being. Mindfulness has numerous benefits including: Increased ability to cope with stress Improved concentration and creativity Greater energy and enthusiasm Better work performance Improved self esteem Reduced symptoms of depression, anxiety, and chronic pain Improved immune system How has Mindfulness been used? Mindfulness has been used with groups as diverse as corporate employees and leaders; educators; students of all ages, including those in professional schools such as law, medicine, and nursing; attorneys; prison inmates; health care professionals; and Olympic and professional athletes. Mindfulness is used as the basis for the Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) programs that were founded in 1979 at UMass Medical Center by Dr. Jon Kabat-Zinn. Since then, numerous hospitals and private practitioners around the world have begun to offer such programs including the UT Integrated Health Program (IHP)¹. "Our true home is in the present moment. When we enter the present moment deeply, our regrets and sorrows disappear, and we discover life with all its wonder. " – Thich Nhat Hanh Reading list Some students have found the following books helpful - either as an introduction to the concepts underlying our program or as a way of continuing their exploration of mindfulness. Wherever You Go, There You Are By Jon Kabat-Zinn(Hyperion, 2005). Full Catastrophe Living: Using the Wisdom of Your Body and Mind to Face Stress, Pain, and Illness By Jon Kabat-Zinn (Delta, 1990). Peaceful Mind: Using Mindfulness & Cognitive Behavioral Psychology to Overcome Depression By John McQuaid, Ph.D. and Paula E. Carmona, RN, MSN. (New Harbinger Publications, 2004). The Anxiety & Phobia Workbook By Edmund Bourne (New Harbinger; 4th Edition, 2005). Mindfulness Yoga: The Awakened Union of Breath, Body and Mind By Frank Jude Boccio (Wisdom Publications, 2004). The Mindful Way Through Depression: Freeing Yourself from Chronic Unhappiness By J. Mark Williams, Teasdale, Segal, & Kabat-Zinn (Guilford Press, 2007). Don't Let Your Emotions Run Your Life By Scott Spradlin (New Harbinger Publications, 2003). Calming Your Anxious Mind: How Mindfulness and Compassion Can Free You from Anxiety, Fear, and Panic By Jeffrey Brantley (New Harbinger; Revised Edition, 2007). Radical Acceptance: Embracing Your Life with the Heart of a Buddha By Tara Brach (Bantam/Dell, 2003). Minding the Body, Mending the Mind By Joan Borysenko(Bantam Doubleday Dell, 1993). ¹Excerpt by Lynn Rossy, Mindfulness Practice Center at University of Missouri-Columbia Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet