Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Medication and Psychiatric Services Business Hours: Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to p.m. Appointment-Scheduling hours are Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to noon & 1 to 4 p.m. Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor Effective Spring 2022 Due to current staffing limitations, CMHC Psychiatry is focused on providing immediate care for high need patients referred from other CMHC and UHS providers. Current UT students who are referred to CMHC Psychiatry from an off-campus therapist, after ADHD testing or students seeking to transfer care should call the CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team at 512-471-3515 (option 3) for a consultation. Individual and group counseling often provide effective treatment for mental health concerns, but sometimes medication and psychiatric services may be beneficial. To meet with a CMHC psychiatrist, a student must be referred by a therapist/counselor with whom they are currently meeting or by a medical provider. CMHC Psychiatric Staff Four full-time psychiatrists, board certified by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology When appropriate, trainees that include a psychiatric resident, psychiatric nurse practitioner student, and/or psychiatric pharmacy resident -- all supervised by a CMHC psychiatrist. A psychiatric nurse who provides nursing care, schedules appointments, facilitates communication between the student and their psychiatrist, and assists with referrals. Psychiatric Treatment at CMHC CMHC psychiatrists provide psychiatric evaluation and recommend treatment for UT students. If medications are recommended, the psychiatrists can prescribe them for the remainder of the semester during which the student was evaluated. CMHC offers off-campus referral assistance to students who require further psychiatric treatment. CMHC psychiatrists do not provide intramuscular (IM) or intravenous (IV) medications, Ketamine, Buprenorphine, opiate replacement, benzodiazepines, electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), stimulants for ADHD without psychological testing within the past three years, or letters of support for emotional support animals (ESA). Educational Topics If you have never taken psychiatric medication, but think that it might be helpful If you currently take psychiatric medication and want to transfer your care to a physician at UT If you used to take psychiatric medication and think that it might be helpful to start again What to expect when you meet with the psychiatrist Why some students are referred to off-campus psychiatrists UT resources for ADD/ADHD If you have never taken psychiatric medication, but think that it might be helpful Call CMHC at (512) 471-3515 (option 3) to speak with a brief assessment counselor. The counselor will discuss treatment options, including a possible referral to a physician to explore medication. If you see a CMHC counselor and want to consider medication, discuss this at your next appointment. If you see a non-CMHC therapist/counselor, discuss referral options with them, as they best know your needs. If you currently take psychiatric medication and want to transfer your care to a physician at UT It is generally helpful to continue your relationship with your current prescribing medical provider, if possible, because they have an established treatment relationship with you. If necessary and depending upon your circumstances, University Health Services physicians or CMHC psychiatrists may be able to assist you. Begin the process early. If you cannot continue working with your current prescribing provider, know that transferring care to a new physician can be a lengthy process. Don’t wait until you are almost out of medication. Students who delay initiating the transfer of their care often must request additional refills from their current prescribing physician. Call (512) 471-3515 (option 3) Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. to complete a brief assessment. An appointment is typically scheduled in three to four weeks to allow time for you to sign a release of information form, which CMHC will mail or fax to your previous provider(s) and/or therapist(s) to request your treatment records. If you will run out of medication before your appointment with a UT physician, call your prescribing provider to request that a prescription for additional medication be phoned to an Austin pharmacy. A four-week supply usually provides adequate time for CMHC to obtain your treatment records, complete the evaluation process, and provide recommendations. You may choose to fill your prescription at the HEB pharmacy on-campus in the Health Transformation Building at 1601 Trinity Blvd. Call 512-320-9998 or visit their web site. If, by law, your prescription cannot be phoned in to a pharmacy, ask your prescribing provider if they will mail your prescription to you. If you used to take psychiatric medication and think it might be helpful to start again If you are not in counseling, call CMHC at (512) 471-3515 (option 3) to complete a brief assessment with a counselor. If you see a CMHC counselor and want to consider medication, discuss this at your next appointment. If you see a non-CMHC counselor, discuss referral options with them, as they best know your needs. What to expect when you meet with the psychiatrist Courteous and professional treatment. CMHC psychiatrists are sensitive to your personal issues, and the information discussed at visits is confidential to the extent permitted by law. Confidentiality Psychiatric evaluation. Initial visits usually last an hour, and entail questions designed to get to know you, your history, and your symptoms. In most cases, treatment recommendations will be discussed. The psychiatrist will determine whether your needs are within the scope of CMHC services. If they fall beyond our service scope, an off-campus referral may be made. Follow-ups for medication monitoring. If the psychiatrist prescribes medication, they will ask you to schedule a follow-up appointment to assess its effectiveness. Recommendation for combination of services. Most students taking psychiatric medications benefit from concurrent group and/or individual counseling, and the psychiatrist will likely recommend counseling for you. It is important to follow treatment recommendations. Charges. Each psychiatric visit charge is $10. There is a $25 charge for missed appointments and cancellations made less than 24 hours before the appointment. CMHC does not accept health insurance. How to communicate with your psychiatrist or the psychiatric nurse Secure Messaging. Go to My CMHC on the CMHC home page to log-in for secure messaging, where you can communicate securely and confidentially with your psychiatrist or the psychiatric nurse or receive lab results or messages from your psychiatrist. Keep your e-mail current with the University. CMHC staff cannot respond to regular email messages, as email is not a secure communication method. Why some students are referred to off-campus psychiatrists CMHC serves the entire student community, but there are limitations on the availability of our services. We design our assessment and screening systems to determine whether a student's needs match services that CMHC can provide. When a student requires treatment that CMHC psychiatrists cannot provide (e.g., frequent, long-term appointments or specialized services), we work with the student to facilitate refer to an off-campus provider. Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet