Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Leadership Staff Counseling Staff Psychiatry Staff Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists (DCOS) Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Longhorn Wellness Center Integrated Health Administrative Staff Business Services Information Technology, Data and Research Public Information Team CMHC Staff Business Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm Appointment-Scheduling hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00am-12:00pm & 1:00pm-4:00pm Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor Professional Staff and Supervised Trainees The CMHC professional staff includes clinicians who represent a variety of mental health disciplines. Our licensed staff includes Licensed Professional Counselors, Psychiatrists, Psychologists and Social Workers. Our staff also includes post-graduate clinicians who are in the process of completing their licensure requirements, as well as graduate students who are in the process of obtaining advanced degrees in psychology or social work. These clinical staff members work under the license of our licensed clinical staff and are qualified to provide mental health services. Please feel free to talk with your counselor if you have any questions about their background, experience, or training. CMHC Departments Leadership Staff Counseling Staff Psychiatry Staff Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists (DCOS) Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Longhorn Wellness Center Integrated Health Administrative Staff Business Services Information Technology, Data and Research Public Information Team Leadership Staff Chris Brownson Associate Vice President for Student Affairs Director of the Counseling and Mental Health Center Education Ph.D., Counseling Psychology, The University of Texas at Austin Licensed Psychologist, Texas Professional Interests Dr. Brownson has served as director of CMHC since 2006 and associate vice president for student affairs since 2011. His portfolio also includes University Health Services, the Longhorn Wellness Center, and the Center for Students in Recovery. Since 2004, he has been the director of the National Research Consortium of Counseling Centers in Higher Education, which conducts research on college mental health. He is past president-elect of the Texas University Counseling Center Director’s Association, a past chair of the Section on College and University Counseling Centers of Division 17 of APA, a past chair of the Higher Education Mental Health Alliance, a past chair of the Mental Health Section and past member of the Board of Directors for the American College Health Association. He is a clinical associate professor in Educational Psychology, and his research and professional interests include college student suicide prevention, the intersection of mental health and academic success, and the integration of mental health into primary care. Dr. Brownson was also appointed as a Chancellor’s Health Fellow at The University of Texas System in 2014, and he currently leads a $6 million project implementing various mental health, student safety, and alcohol-related initiatives at the 14 academic and health institutions of the UT System. Personal Interests In his spare time, Chris enjoys tennis, travel, British crime dramas, and softball. Marla Craig Licensed Psychologist; Senior Associate Director for Clinical Services Education Doctorate in Counseling Psychology, Texas A&M University Master of Sociology, University of Texas at Austin Licensed Psychologist, Texas Pronouns She/Her Approach Dr. Craig's approach involves being mindful of the therapeutic relationship and using it to create opportunities to support clients in forming and sustaining quality relationships with others. She also focuses and builds upon clients' strengths with the goal of being more solution than problem focused. Professional Interests Crisis work, non-suicidal self injury, early career professionals, clinical systems and operations management, administration in higher education. Personal Interests In her free time, Dr. Craig enjoys spending time with family, friends and her animals (3 dogs, cat and fish). She enjoys studying the science behind food with wine pairing, exercising, drinking strong french press coffee and reading at least 3 books at one time (history/culture/race relations, wine, fiction). Stephanie Dodoo Associate Director of DEI Initiatives, Health Equity, and Diversity, Counseling & Outreach Services Education Master’s Degree in Social Services Administration, University of Chicago (Chicago/Illinois) Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Oversees the DCOS program which specializes in promoting equity and access to our UT students with historically underrepresented and marginalized identities. She truly loves working with our campus partners, staff and students. She also provides individual, group, and crisis counseling plus consultation to staff and prevention services. Relationships and collaborations are important aspects of her clinical work. Professional Interests Favorite parts of her work includes providing identity affirming services and effecting healing and change on the margins, with the students who need us most. She is passionate about advocacy, liberation, diversity, equity, inclusion and especially reducing disparities in healthcare and mental health. Stephanie believes we each play a part in helping disrupt systems of oppression. We can all make a difference in the lives and institutions with which we come in contact. Personal Interests She loves to cook (improvising!), play and watch tennis, travel (outside of her home), now dreaming about future travels, spending time with family and friends, indulging in Ghanaian and other cultures, watching films and gardening. Fostering relationships is important to her daily life. And, likes to surround herself with kind and diverse people, and gets many laughs and stories from parenting. Monica Dowd Associate Director for Business Services Education Master of Business Administration, Texas State University Pronouns She/Her Professional Interests Monica oversees the finance, billing, human resources and materials management departments for the Counseling and Mental Health Center and University Health Services. Her professional interests include revenue cycle and financial management, particularly focusing on process improvement and reporting functions. Personal Interests In her free time, Monica enjoys spending time with her family, bike riding, fishing, sewing and yoga. Laura Dupuis Licensed Clinical Social Worker; Associate Director for CARE and Campus Support Education Master's of Science in Social Work (MSSW), University of Texas at Austin Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Texas Professional Interests Directs the Counselors in Academic Residence (CARE) Program, a program that provides mental health services in academic offices to facilitate students' academic and life goals. Provides individual, group, and crisis counseling in the Steve Hicks School of Social Work. Also provides consultation to staff and prevention services. Participates in training for psychology and social work interns. Areas of professional interest include grief and trauma, depression and anxiety, and relationship concerns. Personal Interests In her free time, Laura enjoys hiking, working at her pottery wheel, playing guitar and spending time with her family. Melissa Eshelman Psychiatrist; Associate Director for Psychiatric Services Education M.D., University of Texas Southwestern Medical School Approach Dr. Eshelman provides diagnostic psychiatry evaluations, medication management, crisis intervention, consultation and supervision. Professional Interests Dr. Eshelman’s professional interests include crisis/emergency psychiatry, developmental issues, risk assessment, mood and anxiety disorders, eating disorders, and working with first-generation college students. Personal Interests Dr. Eshelman is Latina; her parents emigrated from Peru. Her personal interests include spending time with her family, exercising on a rowing machine and pilates reformer and enjoying home cooked meals. Alicia Garces Licensed Clinical Social Worker; Assistant Director for Social Work Training Education Master of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns She/Her Approach Alicia provides individual counseling and group counseling. Her areas of specialty are: Grief & Loss; Working with Latinx members of the campus community; Cultural Considerations of Grief & Loss; First Generation College students; Managing transitions to a large campus setting, and Working with students from marginalized communities. Professional Interests In her role as a Training Director, she enjoys training graduate students to learn clinical skills and to work with diverse populations on a college campus. She is committed to multi-cultural awareness, open-minded humility, and appreciation of everyone's unique talents as emerging counselors. Personal Interests Alicia enjoys gardening and learning how the relationship with between nature and humans replenishes our bodies and spirit. She enjoys cooking, baking, watching films, writing, and spending time with pets and friends. Susan Hochman Associate Director, Assessment, Communication and Data Informatics Education Bachelor of Science Education, University of Kansas Master of Public Health, Emory University Pronouns She/Her Job Description Susan provides strategic leadership over communications, assessment, data informatics, and health information technology for the Counseling and Mental Health Center and University Health Services. She is also the co-executive leader of SHIFT and leads the UT Health Care Entities Group. Professional Interests Susan has been involved with the field of college health since she was an undergraduate student at the University of Kansas where she worked as a student assistant at Watkins Memorial Health Center and established the peer health educator program. Susan started her professional career in college health as a health promotion professional. In recent years, Susan has transitioned from health promotion to administration where she focuses on strategic planning, building a health promoting environment and ensuring that programs and services are accessible, student-centered, and linked to the mission of the institution. She is excited to use data to build new models for addressing students’ health and wellbeing. Susan often cites her involvement with the American College Health Association as a highlight of her job and she is grateful to work with colleagues across the country to institute change on a national level. Susan has served the association in numerous volunteer and elected leadership positions, including Vice President of the ACHA Board of Directors, member-at-large to the board, chair of the Health Promotion section, Annual Meeting Program Planning Chair in 2014, 2017, and 2020 and was a co-author of the Framework for a Comprehensive College Health Program. Susan is currently the co-chair of the Benchmarking Advisory Committee and also a contributing member of the NCHA Advisory Committee where she helped developed the NCHA III. She also serves on the Leadership Institute Committee, Education Planning Committee, and leadership team for the Connected College Health Network. She is honored to be an ACHA Fellow. Personal Interests Susan enjoys watching Jeopardy, racing to complete the crossword puzzle, fitness, and spending time with her family. She also loves playing Scrabble and is undefeated at Bananagrams. Ginny Maril Licensed Psychologist; Associate Director for Clinical Services Education Ph.D., Counseling Psychology, Texas Woman's University Licensed Psychologist, Texas, California, PSYPACT Pronouns She/Her Approach Dr. Maril is trained in a number of different types of therapy such as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Existential Therapy, and Dialectical Behavioral Therapy. Each of these is couched in an understanding of cultural systems that impact who we are and how we feel. Working with her is comfortable, conversational, and focused on helping you feel better. Professional Interests Dr. Maril specializes in working with college students, individuals living with chronic illness and rare disease, and survivors of sexual trauma. Personal Interests In her free time, she loves going to concerts, traveling, and being in nature. Brittany O'Malley Assistant Director for Prevention Katy Redd Associate Director for Prevention, Development and Media Relations Education M.P.H. New Mexico State University M.S.W. New Mexico State University Pronouns She/Her Job Description Katy oversees prevention programming, development, and media relations for the Counseling and Mental Health Center and University Health Services. She oversees innovative public health programming and forges partnerships to support the well-being of today’s college students. She also oversees development efforts for both organizations as well as media relations, ensuring that CMHC and UHS’s services are appropriate and effectively communicated to the UT community. Professional Interests Katy’s professional interests include health communication, public health methods to improve mental health, and health equity. Personal Interests In her free time, Katy enjoys backpacking, adventure traveling, crafting, and watching her young children experience the world. Robert Reed Assistant Director for IT Education Bachelor of Science, UT Austin Bachelor of Arts, UT Austin Pronouns He/Him/His Job Description Robert manages the team providing IT support to CMHC and UHS. The team supports everything from the network to the hardware and software used by staff. In addition the team is responsible for ensuring the privacy and security of the information collected by clinicians. Professional Interests Robert is interested in Health Information Management and Technology. He keeps current on best information security practices. He also likes to dabble in data analysis and reporting. Personal Interests When not working, he enjoy spending time with his wife, Anna, and his kids. He likes being in nature and also enjoys partaking of the local bounty Austin has to offer. Javier Ungo Licensed Clinical Social Worker; Assistant Director for Access and Referral Services Education Master of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW) Pronouns He/Him/His Job Description Javier directs the Brief Assessment and Referral team (BART). BART is the first point of contact for students looking to access mental health resources. BART provides brief screenings to assist students in identifying treatment options and assisting with scheduling and referring to appropriate resources. Javier also supervises the Case Management Program which consists of a team of CMHC case managers who meet with students to assist in connecting to mental health and other resources both on and off-campus. Professional Interests Javier’s professional interests include mental health triage, crisis intervention, college mental health and LGBTQ+ mental health. Elana Verbin Bizer Licensed Clinical Social Worker; Assistant Director, Integrated Health Education Master's of Science in Social Work (MSSW), University of Texas at Austin Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Texas Pronouns She/Her Approach Elana is interested in the inter-relationship between emotional and physical health and enjoys working with individuals to facilitate wellness on both levels. She believes that fostering a compassionate, non-judgmental relationship with oneself can give us access to our full range of possibilities. As such, she utilizes a student-centered, mindfulness-based style of counseling which incorporates relational and cognitive-behavioral approaches. Professional Interests Elana directs the Integrated Health Program, which provides behavioral health services within University Health Services. She also manages the Thrive at UT mobile app and MindBody Labs on campus. Elana believes in empowering individuals to discover strategies that work for them by learning and experimenting with new behaviors. Elana enjoys working with students from diverse backgrounds. Interests include working with students with chronic illnesses and helping individuals manage anxiety in all of the varied way it can show up in our lives. Personal Interests Elana enjoys spending time outdoors with her family and loves to travel overseas every chance she gets. She also enjoys reading and all things food-related. Mark Zentner Licensed Psychologist; Assistant Director for Psychology Training Education Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns He/Him Approach Dr. Zentner approaches therapy with the understanding that the therapist and student are working together as a team to address the needs and interests of the student. Counseling can be a place to focus on building skills to address specific areas of concerns. It can also be an environment to explore aspects of one's self and the circumstances in their life that may be challenging to talk about with friends, family, or peers. For Dr. Zentner, therapy is a place where students can expect to be treated with respect and kindness, whether they are using the time to address problems that have come up recently, patterns that have caused stress over time, or discussing the experience of living in the world during a turbulent time. Professional Interests Dr. Zentner is interested in working with students who are experiencing disruptions in their lives due to anxiety, stress, depression, loss and grief, life transitions, traumatic experiences, and issues related to the ways that events in our society and the world impact them. Personal Interests In his free time, he enjoys spending time with family, friends, and his dog, reading, spending time outdoors, and eating poke. Back to Top Counseling Staff Renissa R. Arnold Psychology Intern Education Masters of Science in Educational Psychology, Oklahoma State University Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Renissa's personal theory of counseling is truly integrative in nature. Renissa utilizes techniques from Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Emotion Focused therapy, and Feminist theory. Renissa believes that our experiences impact how we see ourselves, others, and the world, which influences our feelings and behaviors. Renissa believes that therapy should be a collaborative space for students to explore and be their most authentic self. She also believes that students should be the expert of their own experiences while sharing their thoughts, feelings, and emotions. Professional Interests Renissa’s professional interests include black masculinity, suicide prevention, multicultural counseling, mental health stigma within the BIPOC community, race-related stress, anxiety, addressing trauma, depression and religion/ spirituality. Personal Interests Renissa enjoys cooking, spending time with her family, watching musicals, and traveling. Kimberly Bird Licensed Professional Counselor Education Master of Science, Family Studies/Marriage & Family, Virginia Tech Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Kim's work with clients is strengths based, trauma-informed and culturally sensitive. She believes that creating a safe, collaborative and supportive space for clients is vital to the work that occurs within the therapeutic relationship. During sessions, Kim integrates elements of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), mindfulness practice and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR). Professional Interests Kim works with survivors of trauma and a variety of mood disorders. She enjoys crisis response, group facilitation and supporting associates working toward licensure. Personal Interests In her free time, Kim enjoys training her therapy dog partner, Archie, spending time in nature and gardening. She loves camping, hiking and traveling to faraway places Marla Craig Licensed Psychologist; Senior Associate Director for Clinical Services Education Doctorate in Counseling Psychology, Texas A&M University Master of Sociology, University of Texas at Austin Licensed Psychologist, Texas Pronouns She/Her Approach Dr. Craig's approach involves being mindful of the therapeutic relationship and using it to create opportunities to support clients in forming and sustaining quality relationships with others. She also focuses and builds upon clients' strengths with the goal of being more solution than problem focused. Professional Interests Crisis work, non-suicidal self injury, early career professionals, clinical systems and operations management, administration in higher education. Personal Interests In her free time, Dr. Craig enjoys spending time with family, friends and her animals (3 dogs, cat and fish). She enjoys studying the science behind food with wine pairing, exercising, drinking strong french press coffee and reading at least 3 books at one time (history/culture/race relations, wine, fiction). Cameron Davis Psychology Intern Education Master of Science, Counseling Psychology, University of North Texas Master of Science, Clinical Mental Health Counseling, Southern Methodist University Pronouns he/him/his Approach Cameron's clinical work focuses on creating an enriching environment in which clients may feel seen and cared for. He believes that therapy should be a collaborative space in which goals are mutually agreed upon and altered as the work of therapy progresses. Cameron approaches therapy with a relational, multicultural, and humanistic lens. He would describe his clinical work as empowering, compassionate, and real. Professional Interests His professional interest include working with client's who seeking to gain new insights regarding multicultural/diversity, life transitions, identity development, Black identity, religion/spirituality, anxiety, depression, and interpersonal concerns. Personal Interests In his free time he enjoys going to the gym, trying new places to eat, going to the movies, and hanging out on a patio with friends. Alicia Garces Licensed Clinical Social Worker; Assistant Director for Social Work Training Education Master of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns She/Her Approach Alicia provides individual counseling and group counseling. Her areas of specialty are: Grief & Loss; Working with Latinx members of the campus community; Cultural Considerations of Grief & Loss; First Generation College students; Managing transitions to a large campus setting, and Working with students from marginalized communities. Professional Interests In her role as a Training Director, she enjoys training graduate students to learn clinical skills and to work with diverse populations on a college campus. She is committed to multi-cultural awareness, open-minded humility, and appreciation of everyone's unique talents as emerging counselors. Personal Interests Alicia enjoys gardening and learning how the relationship with between nature and humans replenishes our bodies and spirit. She enjoys cooking, baking, watching films, writing, and spending time with pets and friends. Meghan Graham Licensed Clinical Social Worker; Brief Assessment and Referral Counselor Education Master of Science in Social Work (MSSW) from The Steve Hicks School of Social Work at The University of Texas at Austin. Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Meghan uses a strengths-based, empowerment approach, which means building on student's pre-existing skills and abilities. Meghan will honor that you are the expert of your own life. She likes to take concepts from Dialectical Behavior Therapy, which helps bolster your ability to cope with stressful situations and strong emotions. She uses a relational-cultural approach with feminist underpinnings, which seeks to reduce sources of individual isolation and social injustice, such as racism, classism, sexism, and homophobia, which contribute to chronic disconnection and distress. Professional Interests Meghan enjoys working with people who experience anxiety, depression, and grief. She also enjoys working with survivors of trauma and those who have had adverse childhood experiences. She uses her social work values, which emphasize the value of human relationships, challenging social injustice, and acknowledging the dignity and worth of every individual. Personal Interests In her spare time, she enjoys hiking, biking, and swimming. You can usually catch her at Barton Springs or Deep Eddy enjoying a quick dip. She also like crafting, reading zines, and the local art & music scene here in Austin. Louis Haling Case Manager Education Master of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns He/Him/His Joey Hannah Licensed Psychologist; Practicum Training Coordinator; Telehealth & Technology Coordinator Education Ph.D., Counseling Psychology, University of Florida Pronouns he/him Approach Dr. Hannah places a lot of importance on building a trusting relationship where you feel supported, but also safe enough to be challenged to make changes. He values providing evidence-based treatment and interventions to make sure you get the most out of our work together. As a therapist he is actively involved, direct with feedback, and will openly share his thoughts, questions, and perceptions with you. Professional Interests Dr. Hannah's professional interests include working with LGBTQIA+ students, working with graduate students, identity development, multicultural diversity, psychological assessment, suicide prevention/intervention, trauma recovery, grief & loss, training, and telehealth services. Personal Interests In his spare time Joey enjoys video games, tv/movies, traveling, food/cooking and reading. Sarah Levinn Licensed Clinical Social Worker; Licensed Chemical Dependency Counselor; Brief Assessment and Referral Counselor Education Master of Science in Social Work, The University of Texas at Austin Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Provides brief assessment and referral services, groups and individual counseling, and is part of the Alcohol and Other Drug Program. Her approach is grounded in narrative and relational therapy, empowering clients to own their stories. Sarah has professional experience in inpatient and outpatient substance abuse treatment, inpatient and outpatient detoxification programs, case management, and crisis intervention. Professional Interests Her professional interests include LGBTQIA issues, addiction, addressing trauma, and self-compassion. Personal Interests In her spare time, Sarah enjoys playing competitive and recreational sports, notably Ultimate Frisbee and ping pong. Daishai Logan Brief Assessment and Referral Counselor Education Master of Social Work, University of Texas at Arlington Pronouns she/her/hers Approach I utilize a collaborative, person centered, strengths-based approach. I enjoy using concepts of cognitive behavioral therapy, holistic psychotherapy, solution focused therapy, and mindfulness approaches. I provide a warm and judgment free environment, always meeting the client where they are and empowering them to achieve their goals. . Professional Interests My professional interests include but are not limited to college and minority mental health, childhood trauma, depression and anxiety, crisis intervention, and suicide prevention. Personal Interests My personal interests consist of reading, traveling, binge watching series, and trying new restaurants and activities. Joan Long Licensed Clinical Social Worker Education Master of Science in Social Work (MSSW), The University of Texas at Austin Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Texas Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Joan provides individual and group therapy to students. Joan's practice emphasizes psychodynamic and relational approaches to therapy, and also the ways in which mindfulness and awareness of body sensations contribute to development of emotional regulation and a stronger sense of self. Professional Interests Joan's professional interests include trauma and attachment, existential and spiritual concerns, and the dynamics of development of the self. She also enjoys clinical supervision and working with trainees and their professional development. Personal Interests Joan enjoys spending time with friends and family, walking at Lady Bird Lake, and travelling to New Mexico and Colorado. Ginny Maril Licensed Psychologist; Associate Director for Clinical Services Education Ph.D., Counseling Psychology, Texas Woman's University Licensed Psychologist, Texas, California, PSYPACT Pronouns She/Her Approach Dr. Maril is trained in a number of different types of therapy such as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Existential Therapy, and Dialectical Behavioral Therapy. Each of these is couched in an understanding of cultural systems that impact who we are and how we feel. Working with her is comfortable, conversational, and focused on helping you feel better. Professional Interests Dr. Maril specializes in working with college students, individuals living with chronic illness and rare disease, and survivors of sexual trauma. Personal Interests In her free time, she loves going to concerts, traveling, and being in nature. Luis Charles Martinez Jr Licensed Clinical Social Worker; Case Manager BART Education Master of Clinical Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns he/him/his Approach My approach involves helping people become empowered in order to reach their goals. I utilize a strength's perspective in order to accomplish this. I also believe that a mindful approach assists me in helping those that I work with. Professional Interests Performing clinical Social Work, which involves case management is what I have spent the majority of time doing in my professional career. I wish to continue Social Work from a mindful perspective. Personal Interests I enjoy hanging out with my family and friends. I enjoy listening to music. I also enjoy watching movies. Katherine Melo Li Psychology Intern Education Master of Mental Health Counseling, Florida State University; Educational Specialist of Mental Health Counseling, Florida State University Pronouns she/her/hers/Ella Approach I'm really interested in getting to know my clients thoughts, feelings, and behaviors related to their experiences, while also considering the social-political contexts that they exist in and how that impacts their experiences. It is my understanding that being able to have open conversations related to these topics helps an individual better understand themselves, and ultimately feel that they can cope better or make any necessary changes to their lives and reach their therapy goals. Professional Interests I am very interested in working with first generation undergraduate and graduate students to help them best navigate the university system. I am also interested in working with students with concerns related to anxiety, assertiveness training, depression, identity development, intergenerational trauma, interpersonal skill building, romantic relationships, and suicidal thoughts. Personal Interests In my free time, I enjoy hanging out with my Yorkie Poodle Chewie, binge watching new shows on streaming platforms, and exploring all my new local neighborhood restaurants. Pamela Moore Staff Psychologist Hannah Nazir CMHC General Counselor Education Master of Science in Social Work (MSSW) from The Steve Hicks School of Social Work at The University of Texas at Austin Pronouns She/her/hers Approach Hannah enjoys cultivating a warm, open, and collaborative space with each student she meets with. This means moving at a pace that feels right for each client, prioritizing transparency and ongoing communication, and honoring the lived experiences and expertise each student has on their own life. Hannah’s approach is one that is trauma-informed and based on acknowledging the intersectionality of one’s identities, the environment in which they inhabit, inherent strengths that each student already possesses, and how the culmination of these factors inform well-being. Professional Interests Hannah deeply enjoys supporting students at UT through life transitions and the anxieties that often accompany them. She is a Voices Against Violence and Mindful Eating clinician, which means she specifically works with students who are seeking support in navigating experiences and the impact of trauma and eating/body image concerns. Hannah is passionate about helping students explore what emotions or experiences may be at the “root” of certain behaviors or reactions. Hannah has a strong interest and investment in supporting students during identity exploration as she identifies as multiracial and multicultural herself. Personal Interests You will often find Hannah in the kitchen refilling her cup of tea, baking scones, or experimenting with new recipes. She refuels her energy by spending time in nature, playing volleyball, splashing around in any body of water she can find, caring for her plants, and cooking with loved ones. Kimberly Orchowski CMHC General Counselor Education Master of Social Work, University of Denver Pronouns She/her/hers Kristen Pearson VAV Coordinator Education Master of Science of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns She/her/hers Hannah Powers Licensed Master Social Worker; Case Manager Education Master of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns She/Her/Hers Approach Hannah provides personalized case management and support services to students using a relational, collaborative, and strengths based approach. As a social worker, her background is rooted in social justice and a culturally informed orientation to ensure that students receive services that best reflect their individual needs and identities. Hannah utilizes elements of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Acceptance/Commitment Therapy and Solution Focused Brief Therapy to assist students in pursuing connections to mental health/other community resources, as well as navigating barriers to care. Professional Interests Hannah's professional interests include working with fellow multicultural individuals to support them in exploring identity and fostering a sense of belonging. Hannah also enjoys working with people who identify as neurodiverse to help navigate complex mental and health care systems, as well as facilitate development of self-advocacy skills. Personal Interests Hannah enjoys spending time with her dogs, playing video games, and mentoring other mental health professionals. Aly Ramirez Licensed Master Social Worker; Case Manager Education Master of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Aly provides case management, advocacy, individual and group therapy, and brief assessment. She approaches her work from a person-centered, trauma-informed perspective with a social justice orientation. She firmly believes in meeting clients where they are and respecting their autonomy. She frequently uses relational-cultural, narrative, and psychodynamic approaches while integrating mindfulness work, motivational interviewing, and skills from CBT, DBT, and ACT. Professional Interests Aly's professional interests include trauma, substance use, navigating systems, advocacy, and identities (e.g., race/ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation). She enjoys working with survivors of trauma, women, young adults, and people who hold non-dominant identities. As a Chicanx woman, she has a special fondness for serving members of Latinx communities. Personal Interests In her free time, Aly enjoys cooking, writing, and spending time with her dog Lux and her two cats, Shapka and Special Agent Dale Cooper. She loves watching movies (especially horror). Her favorite Muppet is Animal. Chloe Ropner Social Work Intern Education Currently working on Master of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Chloe works to provide a counseling space grounded in a relational and strengths-based approach, built on the foundation that clients are the experts of their own experience. Chloe believes in collaborating with students to work as a partner in accomplishing goals, exploring emotion, and navigating difficult situations. Additionally, she strives to ensure the services she provides are client-centered, culturally conscious, and take into account the context, identities, experiences, and systems navigated by her clients. Chloe grounds her work in relational-cultural theory and anti-oppressive practice, incorporating an anti-racist, body-positive, LGBTQIA+ affirming, and strengths-based perspective. Chloe believes it's an honor to hear the stories of her clients and works to bring empathy, authenticity, and genuine respect to her virtual and in-person therapeutic spaces. Professional Interests Her professional interests include, but are not limited to, family of origin concerns, life adjustments, self-esteem work, and exploring areas/issues related to navigating college. Additionally, her clinical interests include eco-therapy, anxiety, depression, grief and loss, multiculturalism, and developing effective coping strategies. Chloe deeply aligns with social work values, which emphasize the value of human relationships, challenging social injustice, and acknowledging the dignity and worth of all people. Personal Interests From camping and road trips to hiking and running, Chloe loves adventure and just about anything in the outdoors. She also can't get enough of live music, museums, spending time with loved ones, and adventuring around with her pup. Thomas Schlitt Licensed Professional Counselor; MHART Counselor Education Master of Clinical Mental Health Counseling, Appalachian State University Pronouns he/him/his Approach Thomas’ approach to counseling starts with being person centered and trauma informed. This means being empathetic, genuine, and none judgmental, and creating a safe space where every person has a voice in the care they receive. Thomas utilizes cognitive behavioral therapy techniques and is experienced in working with folks struggling with grief and loss. Professional Interests Thomas is interested in early intervention with students who are experiencing mental health symptoms for the first time. Thomas is also interested in supporting students who are experiencing a crisis. Personal Interests When Thomas is not working, he enjoys spending time with his wife and three dogs, camping and hiking, and playing kickball. Kory Schruben Licensed Clinical Social Worker; Brief Assessment and Referral Counselor Education Master of Science in Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns She/her/hers Approach Kory works from a Relational-Cultural model while incorporating Dialectical Behavioral Therapy, mindfulness, and self-compassion. Professional Interests Kory’s professional interests include identity development, trauma, and working with LGBTQIA+ identified students. Personal Interests In her free time, Kory enjoys trying new foods, seeing live music, and watching movies with her dog, Benny. Danielle Sirles Licensed Psychologist Education Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology, Texas Tech University Pronouns She/her/hers Approach Dr. Sirles takes a collaborative, strengths-based approach to helping her clients live authentically and navigate life’s challenges. She strongly believes that the quality of the relationship between the therapist and the client is one of the most important factors in therapy success. To this end, Dr. Sirles works hard to ensure that her clients feel understood, respected, and safe to show up as their true selves. In session, Dr. Sirles integrates elements of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) and other culturally-affirming approaches that help clients move towards healing and growth. Professional Interests Dr. Sirles enjoys working with relationship concerns, (re)building confidence and self-esteem, healing from trauma, and learning how to manage symptoms of depression and anxiety. Dr. Sirles is especially passionate about working with members of the BIPOC and LGBTQIA+ communities, providing clinical supervision, and facilitating therapy groups and workshops. Personal Interests In her free time, Dr. Sirles loves spending time with her family and friends, (window) shopping for antiques, reading, traveling, visiting museums, and playing Pokémon Go. Javier Ungo Licensed Clinical Social Worker; Assistant Director for Access and Referral Services Education Master of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW) Pronouns He/Him/His Job Description Javier directs the Brief Assessment and Referral team (BART). BART is the first point of contact for students looking to access mental health resources. BART provides brief screenings to assist students in identifying treatment options and assisting with scheduling and referring to appropriate resources. Javier also supervises the Case Management Program which consists of a team of CMHC case managers who meet with students to assist in connecting to mental health and other resources both on and off-campus. Professional Interests Javier’s professional interests include mental health triage, crisis intervention, college mental health and LGBTQ+ mental health. Trevor Waagen Psychology Intern Education Master of Counseling Psychology, University of North Dakota Pronouns They/Them/Theirs Job Description I tend to tailor treatment to every individual I work with given every client has unique experiences and cultural backgrounds to consider. I seek to develop a collaborative environment so clients feel empowered in their therapeutic work. The modalities I utilize stem from cognitive behavioral and emotion-focused treatments which allows clients to explore their thoughts and feelings in a nonjudgmental atmosphere. Professional Interests My research focuses on the experiences of the transgender and non-binary community. Specifically, I am interested in the developmental experiences individuals have as they pertain to gender and societal expectations. Additionally, I seek to engage in advocacy related to the LGBTQIA2S+ community as often as I can. Personal Interests In my free time, I enjoy playing video games (RPGs, MMOs, strategy-based), baking, cooking, and watching drag related content. I have a 2 year old American Foxhound who keeps me busy and active. Brennden Ward Licensed Professional Counselor; MHART Counselor Education M.Ed Athletic counseling, Springfield College Certificate of Advanced Graduate Studies in Clinical Mental Health, Springfield College Pronouns He/Him Approach Brennden provides individual counseling and crisis support at CMHC. Brennden's clinical experience began with providing direct counseling and consultation with athletes and associated staff within a college setting. Brennden served as a Mobile Crisis Clinician for youth & families within the state of CT. He enjoys practicing through the lens of CBT and Solution-Focused Therapy. Professional Interests Brennden's professional interests include anxiety and mood disorders. His interests also include crisis work. Personal Interests Brennden enjoys cooking and trying new cuisines. He also enjoys spending time with his pitbull, Barley. Brennden also enjoys video games, weightlifting, and baseball. Gareth White Licensed Clinical Social Worker; Brief Assessment and Referral Program Coordinator Education Master of Social Work, Silberman School of Social Work at Hunter College – CUNY Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Gareth provides brief assessment and referral services and enjoys being the first point of contact for students seeking services at CMHC. She operates from an anti-racist, fat/body positive, LGBTQIA+ affirming and strengths based perspective. Gareth believes in collaborating with students to help build an inclusive and safe space for therapeutic work. Professional Interests Gareth’s professional passions include mental health triage, LGBTQIA+ affirming work, as well as body and fat positivity. She facilitates the Queer and Questioning Women’s Support Group and the fat positive group Big Bodies. Radical Love. Gareth loves to train other therapists on body based oppression and how to operate from a fat and body positive space. Gareth has a special place in her heart for anxiety management, relationship concerns and grief and loss support as well. Personal Interests Gareth spends time singing with a women’s chorus, performing in theater productions and swimming in any body of water she can find. Hannah Yeo Garza CMHC General Counselor Education Master of Science in Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Hannah has developed a therapy practice grounded in a relational, strengths-based, and inclusive approach. She values creating a safe and welcoming therapeutic relationship with clients and tries to ensure this through her own personal exploration outside of sessions, as well as through transparency, compassion, connection and collaboration with clients within sessions. She believes in supporting and empowering clients in their preexisting strengths and resources. Her work is rooted in client-centered, trauma-responsive, and anti-oppressive frameworks, which take into account each client's context, identities, experiences, and the systems that they may navigate. Professional Interests Hannah enjoys working with a wide range of students. Her professional interests include, but are not limited to, trauma, eating disorders, disordered eating and body image concerns, women's issues, life transitions, and identity exploration. As a member of CMHC's Voices Against Violence team, Hannah is passionate about exploring the impacts of interpersonal and systemic trauma on our sense of self and safety. As a member of CMHC's Mindful Eating team, she values providing folx a nonjudgmental and validating space to explore their relationship to their bodies. As a biracial Asian American femme and child of an immigrant, she is especially interested in working with clients exploring their cultural identity development. Personal Interests Outside of work, Hannah loves to sing, dance, read, get outside of herself in nature with frequent walks and hikes, and spend intentional time with loved ones. Mark Zentner Licensed Psychologist; Assistant Director for Psychology Training Education Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns He/Him Approach Dr. Zentner approaches therapy with the understanding that the therapist and student are working together as a team to address the needs and interests of the student. Counseling can be a place to focus on building skills to address specific areas of concerns. It can also be an environment to explore aspects of one's self and the circumstances in their life that may be challenging to talk about with friends, family, or peers. For Dr. Zentner, therapy is a place where students can expect to be treated with respect and kindness, whether they are using the time to address problems that have come up recently, patterns that have caused stress over time, or discussing the experience of living in the world during a turbulent time. Professional Interests Dr. Zentner is interested in working with students who are experiencing disruptions in their lives due to anxiety, stress, depression, loss and grief, life transitions, traumatic experiences, and issues related to the ways that events in our society and the world impact them. Personal Interests In his free time, he enjoys spending time with family, friends, and his dog, reading, spending time outdoors, and eating poke. Back to Top Psychiatry Staff Luke Carson Psychiatrist Education M.D., University of Washington School of Medicine Master of Public Health, University of Washington School of Public Health Pronouns he/him/his Approach Dr. Carson believes that while not every patient needs medication, it can be a powerful tool in the treatment of mental health issues, especially as part of a treatment plan that includes therapy. He enjoys listening carefully to patients’ stories before developing a treatment plan together. He has experience treating a wide range of psychiatric issues including mood and anxiety disorders, trauma disorders, psychosis, and addiction. Professional Interests Topics of special interest include trauma-related disorders, addiction, mood disorders, psychopharmacology, global mental health, the philosophy of psychiatry, and the role of mindfulness in mental health. He has a background in Acceptant and Commitment Therapy (ACT) as well as other therapeutic modalities. Personal Interests He enjoys spending time with friends and family, playing basketball in the park, playing guitar, watching live music, and reading science fiction. Melissa Eshelman Psychiatrist; Associate Director for Psychiatric Services Education M.D., University of Texas Southwestern Medical School Approach Dr. Eshelman provides diagnostic psychiatry evaluations, medication management, crisis intervention, consultation and supervision. Professional Interests Dr. Eshelman’s professional interests include crisis/emergency psychiatry, developmental issues, risk assessment, mood and anxiety disorders, eating disorders, and working with first-generation college students. Personal Interests Dr. Eshelman is Latina; her parents emigrated from Peru. Her personal interests include spending time with her family, exercising on a rowing machine and pilates reformer and enjoying home cooked meals. Leah Kelley Registered Nurse Education BSN, RN at The University of Texas at Austin Licensed Registered Nurse, Texas Pronouns she/her/hers Job Description Manages appointments, scheduling, referrals, transfer of care, records, medication issues/refills and communication at CMHC for the psychiatry team. Serves as an assistant to the associate director of psychiatry and case manager for psychiatry students. Provides transfer of care screenings, reviews records requests and release of information, coordinates student care with counseling, BART and off-campus providers. Personal Interests Leah enjoys reading, spending time with friends and family, traveling, karaoke and watching paranormal/forensic TV shows. Anh-Thu Tran Psychiatrist Education Doctor of Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston Approach Dr Tran's approach to psychiatry is a patient-centered approach that not only considers all aspects of a patient but also respecting the patient's needs and preferences. She evaluates the patient's diagnoses while also considering their social well-being, their lifestyle and their culture. In doing so, she is able to have a comprehensive understanding of the patient so that she can individualize her care in a way that best suits the patient. She also provides extensive education to my patients so that they may be informed decision makers in their treatment. Professional Interests Dr. Tran has a strong interest in treating mood disorders from depression to bipolar disorder. She also values therapy as a integral part of psychiatric care. Personal Interests She enjoys dancing and costume design in her free time. She also loves travel when time allows. Back to Top Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists (DCOS) Tina Alexander DCOS Fellow for Black/African American Students Education Master of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Tina is a person-centered therapist at her core. She believes that clients are the expert in their life. Her role is to support your journey by highlighting strengths and providing additional skills to help work through life’s challenges . She also believes exercising cultural humility is important in keeping the needs of the person as well as the respect of their psychosocial background at the forefront, to assist them through the process of therapeutic change. Her therapeutic style is a strengths-based perspective, blending relational cultural theory, solution-focused, motivational interviewing, and cognitive behavioral frameworks into her approach. She believes in the power of challenging students to increase self-awareness, while at the same time maintaining an unconditional positive regard for their experiences with empathy, understanding and genuineness (authenticity) for each person that she is fortunate to work with. Professional Interests Her professional interests include, but are in no way limited to, optimal psychosocial well-being of African-Americans, exploring areas/issues related to college students, family of origin concerns, sports psychological concerns, life adjustments and self-esteem work. Additionally, her clinical interests include women's issues and empowerment, anxiety, depression, spirituality, grief and loss, multiculturalism, and a harm reduction focused lens of managing maladaptive coping strategies. Personal Interests In her free time she enjoys building upon all things related to art and creativity including but not limited to painting, sculpting, glassblowing, theatrical performances, building upon my colorful wardrobe, or photography. In the interim of the aforementioned activities you can find me spending time with family, watching college football, or making a dent in an ever increasing list of television shows. Mike Andorka Licensed Psychologist; Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialist Education PhD, Counseling Psychology, University of Akron Pronouns He/Him Approach Sometimes, life can be difficult. The way we interface with our negative thoughts, feelings, and beliefs may cause us significantly more suffering. This interface takes us far from our values and goals. Dr. Andorka wants to help you change your relationship with yourself, and aid you in acting in ways congruent with your values in spite of negativity. He considers his work honest, direct, compassionate, and transparent. Professional Interests Dr. Andorka works from a multicultural, person-centered framework. He is passionate about working with students from multiethnic and multiracial backgrounds as he identifies as Puerto Rican and White. Clinical areas of interest include body image, depression, anxiety, social confidence and working with masculinity and masculine-identifying clients. He also enjoying working within his LGBTQIA+ community. Personal Interests In his spare time, he enjoys going to the gym, playing video games, and trying new experiences Stephanie Dodoo Associate Director of DEI Initiatives, Health Equity, and Diversity, Counseling & Outreach Services Education Master’s Degree in Social Services Administration, University of Chicago (Chicago/Illinois) Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Oversees the DCOS program which specializes in promoting equity and access to our UT students with historically underrepresented and marginalized identities. She truly loves working with our campus partners, staff and students. She also provides individual, group, and crisis counseling plus consultation to staff and prevention services. Relationships and collaborations are important aspects of her clinical work. Professional Interests Favorite parts of her work includes providing identity affirming services and effecting healing and change on the margins, with the students who need us most. She is passionate about advocacy, liberation, diversity, equity, inclusion and especially reducing disparities in healthcare and mental health. Stephanie believes we each play a part in helping disrupt systems of oppression. We can all make a difference in the lives and institutions with which we come in contact. Personal Interests She loves to cook (improvising!), play and watch tennis, travel (outside of her home), now dreaming about future travels, spending time with family and friends, indulging in Ghanaian and other cultures, watching films and gardening. Fostering relationships is important to her daily life. And, likes to surround herself with kind and diverse people, and gets many laughs and stories from parenting. Arna Erega Diversity Counselor and Outreach Specialist for International Students Education Doctor of Philosophy, Counselor Education and Supervision, University of North Carolina at Charlotte Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Dr. Erega has been an international student and a student-athlete herself, which helps her relate to the many challenges, obstacles, and pressures these particular populations experience. She does not believe in the one shoe fits all theory, nor does she have a magic wand, however, she does have an abundance of patience, positive regard, and understanding. Dr. Erega takes pride in getting to know each person individually and then tailoring her therapeutic approach accordingly. She practices from CBT and a solution-focused standpoint, which allows her to help her clients map their way through fears and anxieties and work on their personal journey of growth and development. Professional Interests Dr. Erega's professional interests include working with international students and athletic populations. She is also interested in the implementation of self-care practices among international students, identity development, and the use of multicultural approaches in clinical settings. Personal Interests In her spare time, she enjoys reading, painting, working out, or doing various DIY projects. Joanna Menendez Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialist Education Ph.D., Counseling Psychology, Georgia State University Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Dr. Menendez practices from an integrative approach drawing on elements of cognitive-behavioral therapy, psychodynamic, relational-cultural, and multicultural orientation, which is designed to fit the particular needs of the students. She believes n providing a therapeutic relationship where the student feels unconditionally supported, understood, and free of inhibition. Dr. Menendez also adopts a strength-based approach and works collaboratively to empower individuals towards their process of change. She strives to understand the unique experience of each person, and works collaboratively to create and work towards goals that best fit each person's needs. Professional Interests Dr. Menendez is passionate about working with students who self-identify as Latinx/e. As a bilingual Latinx/e female and a first-generation college student, she draws from her own experiences to be sensitive to issues of discrimination and multiple intersecting identities. Her professional interests include trauma, multicultural diversity, interpersonal relationships, life transitions, and/or first generation college students. Dr. Menendez values diversity and the multiple roles that individuals must navigate in their academic, social, and family life, and she often encourages the exploration and understanding of these areas in therapy. Personal Interests Dr. Menendez enjoys spending time with family and friends, hiking, camping, documentaries, and exploring new places. Amy Tao-Foster Diversity Counseling & Outreach Specialist Education Master of Community Counseling, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Amy anchors her clinical approach with the mindset that clients ultimately need to feel seen, heard, and understood. She often help clients explore the effects of family experiences on interpersonal beliefs. In both group and individual therapy , she utilizes the frameworks of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT). Both of these frameworks help clients examine the content and relationship with their thoughts. She also practice from a Multicultural Counseling and Therapy (MCT) perspective and incorporate concepts from Critical Race Theory. Professional Interests Amy's professional interests include examining the impact of intergenerational trauma on students of color, exploring the Asian/Asian American identity, and increasing awareness and reducing stigma around mental health treatment for people of color. She advocates for the use of culturally informed clinical interventions and practice, and thinks that is important to examine psychotherapy through a lens of equity and inclusion. She is also am interested in looking at how every-day use of technology and consumption of multi-media and social media intersect with mental health and well-being. Personal Interests In her free time, she enjoys cooking (especially Vietnamese food) hiking, baking, reading, listening to music (via both Spotify *and* vinyl) and spending time with her 3 dogs and 1 husband. She especially enjoys hyper-focusing on film, television shows, and podcasts, all things pop/nerd culture. Amelia Zique Diversity Counseling & Outreach Specialist for LGBTQIA+ Students Education Master of Arts, University of Mary Hardin-Baylor Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Amelia's approach is person-centered, strength-focused, and cognitive-behavioral. She honors each client's autonomy, and affirms each client's identity as understood and expressed by them. She respects each client's capacity to be the author and expert of their own life, and assists them based on their strengths and their expressed desires for living their best life. Professional Interests Amelia's professional interests include identity development, gender therapy, resilience, relationships, and community building. She assists clients with stressors and symptoms related to discrimination, marginalization, anxiety, depression, shame, anger, and loss. She is happy to work with anyone to make a positive change in their behaviors or relationships, and is particularly keen to work with her siblings in the LGBTQIA+ community. Personal Interests In her free time, Amelia reads about LGBTQIA+ history, grows flowers, walks in nature, cooks, and spends time with her family that includes a diversity of humans and her cats Winston & Gary. She daydreams of a solarpunk world with liberty, equality, and community for all. Her Legend of Zelda headcanon is that Link and Zelda are nonbinary. Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) View the staff bios on the CARE page. Longhorn Wellness Center View the staff bios on the Longhorn Wellness Center site. Back to Top Integrated Health Ayesha Akbar Social Work Fellow Education Master of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Ayesha works to offer culturally affirming and client-centered individual and group therapy to students. Her approach is rooted in the integration of mindfulness, somatic practices, and interpersonal neurobiology in wellness and healing. Ayesha strives to bring transparency, warmth, and compassion to her work with clients. She centers client empowerment and is committed to anti-racist and anti-oppressive therapeutic practice. Professional Interests Ayesha’s professional interests include complex trauma, suicide prevention, anxiety and depression, LGBTQIA issues, mental health stigma in BIPOC communities, and race-based stress. She particularly enjoys working with clients around religious and sexual identity exploration, family of origin concerns, and trauma healing. Personal Interests In her free time, Ayesha enjoys yoga, weightlifting, reading, cuddling her two dogs, and being in community. Elana Bizer Assistant Director, Integrated Health Education Masters of Science in Social Work, University of Texas at Austin Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Texas Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Elana is interested in the inter-relationship between emotional and physical health and enjoys working with individuals to facilitate wellness on both levels. She believes that fostering a compassionate, non-judgmental relationship with oneself can give us access to our full range of possibilities. As such, she utilizes a student-centered, mindfulness-based style of counseling which incorporates relational and cognitive-behavioral approaches. Professional Interests Elana directs the Integrated Health Program, which provides behavioral health services within University Health Services. She also manages the Thrive at UT mobile app and MindBody Labs on campus. Elana believes in empowering individuals to discover strategies that work for them by learning and experimenting with new behaviors. Elana enjoys working with students from diverse backgrounds. Interests include working with students with chronic illnesses and helping individuals manage anxiety in all of the varied way it can show up in our lives. Personal Interests Elana enjoys spending time outdoors with her family and loves to travel overseas every chance she gets. She also enjoys reading and all things food-related. Kate Czar Group Services Coordinator and Integrated Health Counselor Education Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology at The University of Southern Mississippi Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Dr. Kate Czar considers it an honor to support individuals in their journey toward improved mood, sense of self, active self-nourishment, and overall wellness and psychological sturdiness. She approaches emotional health concerns from a strength-based and holistic lens with an understanding of the mind-body connection. Common interventions employed are derived from mindfulness, cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), and acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT). Additionally, Kate deeply values diversity consciousness, strives to create an inclusive therapeutic space, and attends to aspects of identity in clients' presenting concerns. Her style is warm, collaborative, and down-to-earth with a blend of professionalism and humor. Kate helps clients to establish therapy goals and offers concrete concepts/skills to assist in reaching those goals. Professional Interests Kate values being a generalist and having a chance to provide support for clients around a variety of topics. She particularly enjoys working with clients around areas such as anxiety management, substance-related issues, grief and loss, and identity exploration. Her professional interests also include mindfulness, self-compassion, social justice, supervision and training, group therapy, and coordinating CMHC's group and workshop services. Personal Interests Kate is passionate about stories, music, animals, the environment, new learning, and new experiences. Some of her hobbies include spending time with nature, travel, playing sports, watching TV/movies, leisure reading, and attempting to learn new instruments and languages. Geeti Shirazi Mahajan Integrated Health Counselor Education Joint Master of Social Work & Master of Public Health, Washington University in St. Louis Certified Yoga Therapist (C-IAYT) Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Texas Pronouns she/her/hers Approach Geeti is a cisgender, heterosexual, biracial woman of Indian and Iranian descent. She works to offer culturally-affirming psychotherapy and yoga therapy through the Integrated Health program. Geeti’s approach is rooted in mindfulness based modalities, emphasizing the body and being connection through somatic practices drawn from yoga traditions. Geeti provides individual and group therapy, as well as clinical supervision to trainees. Professional Interests Geeti enjoys working with highly sensitive people from multicultural backgrounds. Some of her specialty areas include relationship issues, love addiction, co-dependency, living with complex medical conditions, women's issues, and healing from trauma. Personal Interests Geeti loves spending time with family and friends, being in nature, and creating art of any kind. Back to Top Administrative Staff Mia Drago Administrative Associate Education BA., Human Development and Family Sciences, University of Connecticut Pronouns she/her/hers Job Description Mia provides administrative and event support to the Counseling and Mental Health Center. Personal Interests Mia enjoys exploring running trails, cooking for friends and family, and listening to deep dive podcasts. Dylan Garsee Administrative Associate Pronouns They/Them Hannah L. Harkey Administrative Associate Education Bachelor of Arts, The Evergreen State College Pronouns she/her/hers Job Description Hannah returned to the University of Texas team in 2022. She provides administrative and event support to the Counseling and Mental Health Center including scheduling calendars & meetings, coordinating events & room reservations and providing back up support for the team. Prior to join CMHC, Hannah served as an administrative assistant on UT's Occupational Health Team. Professional Interests In her career, Hannah strives to promote inclusion and accessibility. And cultivating positive relationships with clients and colleagues is key. She enjoys finding creative solutions to problems, supporting the needs of her team, and implementing efficiency strategies. Personal Interests A voracious reader, Hannah enjoys language, learning, and broadening her horizons. She loves hikes with her family, board games with friends, and meeting new people when she travels. Mitzi Henry FDRO Office Manager / Senior Administrative Associate Pronouns She/her Job Description Mitzi is the Records Release Coordinator. She releases records to students, providers and hospitals and creates treatment letters. She schedules appointments, works with clinician schedules and enters information about cancellations. Personal Interests Mitzi enjoys music and spending time with her family. Michelle E. Rivera Senior Administrative Associate Education Bachelor of Arts, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns She/her Job Description Schedules calendars & meetings, coordinates events & room reservations and maintains staff directories & supplies. Professional Interests Enjoys assisting people, problem-solving situations and collaborating with colleagues to make things happen that will help the center, the university and students. Personal Interests Michelle loves helping animals, food, history, classic & horror films, documentaries and the Beatles. Ana Robledo Administrative Associate Pronouns she/her Job Description Ana works at the front desk office. She helps greet students and check them into their appointments as well as ensure they are given access to their paperwork. She helps answer student calls to the center and get them connected to the department or person who can best help them. At the end of every semester she also help assist the Medical Withdrawal Coordinator. Personal Interests Away from the counseling center she enjoys reading and puzzling to relax her mind. She also enjoys spending time with family and friends. Amber Serra Assistant to Associate Vice President for Student Affairs Education Bachelor's in Business Administration, University of Houston-Clear Lake Pronouns she/her/hers Job Description Amber joined CMHC in 2018. She provides administrative support to the associate vice president and director of CMHC, Dr. Chris Brownson. Prior to joining CMHC and UT-Austin, she worked as a senior paralegal and office manager in Southern California. Professional Interests She is a first-generation college graduate and obtained her bachelor’s in Business Administration from the University of Houston-Clear Lake. She is thrilled to be on staff at CMHC where she can collaborate with other lifelong learners and compassionate individuals every day. Personal Interests Outside of work, Amber’s interests include traveling, making things, tacos, reading, writing letters, Bill Murray, live music, rock climbing, tiny living, Wes Anderson films, volunteering, winning at dominoes, and spending time with family and friends. Marissa Uballe Gonzalez FDRO Administrative Associate Pronouns she/her/hers Job Description Marissa works at the front desk as the first point of contact checking students in and answering phone calls for the department. Personal Interests My personal interest include spending time with my family, watching my kids play sports on the weekends, crafting, and Baking cakes. Back to Top Business Services Tracy Brzozowski Senior Human Resources Coodinator Education Bachelor of Business Administration, Management, The University of Texas at Austin Job Description Tracy has been providing human resources support for University Health Services (UHS) since 2006 and also provides back-up HR support for Counseling and Mental Health Center (CMHC), UHS/CMHC joint areas (Billing/Insurance, Materials Management, Finance, Longhorn Wellness Center, Human Resources), Center for Students in Recovery (CSR), and SHIFT. As Senior Human Resources Coordinator, she manages every aspect of the employee life cycle. This includes, but not limited to, recruiting, onboarding, offboarding, training, ensuring compliance with labor law and employment standards, compensation, and benefits. Professional Interests Tracy enjoys discovering innovative ways of using technology to make HR processes more efficient. She loves attending HR conferences to connect and learn about unique challenges the profession offers in the ever-changing world of HR. She is a member of Austin Human Resource Management Association (AHRMA) as well as the Society of Human Resource Management (SHRM). Tracy has been a member of the university’s multi-cultural group Asian Asian-American Faculty and Staff Association (AAAFSA) since 2014 and served as Staff Co-chair from 2016-2018. Personal Interests A few of Tracy’s interests include traveling, food (especially Korean and Dr. Pepper/Flamin’ Hot Cheetos combo), daily prayer, and spending time with her furbaby Beebee, family and friends. Cathy Glazener Financial Analyst Education BBA, Baylor University Pronouns she/her Job Description Cathy monitors transactions and balances in the University's accounting system, prepares budgets and financial reports, performs financial analysis on data in both the accounting system and the medical insurance claims system, and maintains our third-party contracts. Professional Interests Cathy enjoys maximizing use of our available tools and systems and improving the efficiency and accuracy of our processes. Personal Interests Cathy enjoys anything outdoors - hiking, cycling, sailing, yardwork, a good cup of coffee and a newspaper! She's also a hobbyist beekeeper. Jessica Guerrero Billing and Insurance Specialist Pronouns she/her Job Description Jessica serves as the department’s billing, payment posting, and insurance assistant with a moderate knowledge and application of various aspects of insurance claims filing for services provided at University Health services (UHS). Professional Interests Jessica really enjoys working with billing and insurance and wants to expand her knowledge in coding. Personal Interests Jessica enjoys traveling, hosting family gatherings and watching her son play baseball. Kevin Jones Stores Keeper Pronouns He/Him Job Description Kevin is a Stores Keeper for CMHC/UHS and helps run the inter-department Material Management. He provides medical and administrative logistic supplies for both CMHC/UHS. Personal Interests In his free time Keving enjoys fishing and gardening. Ben Lara Material Management Manager Pronouns He/Him/His Job Description Ben plans, administers, and directs the Materiel Management Department and supports organizational requirements. Professional Interests Ben likes to build and manage large teams, especially enjoying the mentorship involved in team-building. Personal Interests Ben likes outdoor activities, such as golf and barbecuing and spending time with his family. Marvin Mackey Senior Mail Clerk Monica McBroom Senior Human Resource Coordinator Education Bachelor of Science, Texas Tech University Job Description As a Senior Human Resource Coordinator, Monica provides local expertise in all areas of Human Resource functions for the Counseling and Mental Health Center, University Health Services, Longhorn Wellness Center, CMHC/UHS Business Services, the Center for Students in Recovery, SHIFT, and Well-Being in Learning Environments. These functions include Payroll, Benefits, Leave Management, Hiring, Recruiting, Employee Management, Performance Management, Federal and State regulatory guidelines and compliance just to name a few. There are many functions that are processed at the University level, but as the departmental HR representative, she serves as one of the first points of contact. Professional Interests Monica enjoys delving into the statistics of HR to identify ways to better the company. She also finds immense satisfaction in helping employees through whatever situation they find themselves in, whether that be planning for a new addition to their family and all that entails or finding the common ground when they and a co-worker are at odds. Personal Interests When not at work, you'll find Monica jetting off to a beach someplace for some amazing scuba diving, reading a good book with a cocktail or glass of wine, or simply enjoying the great outdoors with family. Carsen Meriwether Patient Account Representative Pronouns she/her Job Description Carsen assists patients with inquiries relating to billing and insurance, such as benefits and plan limitations, out-of-pocket expenses, and payments; supports Billing and Coding initiatives; and assists with eligibility and special programs. Personal Interests Carsen enjoys traveling and photography, along with exploring all the food options that Austin has to offer. Debbie Morgan Insurance Verification Coordinator Job Description Debbie supports the Billing and Insurance office as the primary Insurance Verification Coordinator. She is responsible for verifying benefits, obtaining precertification for all UHS Procedures and Specialty services, and then relaying benefits information to the patient such as deductible, coinsurance, cost sharing and self-pay options. Professional Interests Debbie enjoys answering students’ questions and helping them navigate the world of insurance, so that that they better understand the information regarding their benefits. Personal Interests In her free time, Debbie enjoys spending time with family, loves hiking, she also enjoys DIY and home renovation projects. Nicolette Page Billing and Insurance Manager Education Bachelor of Arts Healthcare Administration, Concordia University Texas Pronouns she/her Job Description Nicolette oversees our business operations for Billing/Insurance and Authorization department for University Health Services. She is responsible for managing our revenue cycle functions for UHS along with planning, staffing, and facilitating insurance credentialing for CMHC/UHS joint services. Nicolette provides complex administrative support for the Billing/Insurance department. Professional Interests Nicolette has been in the healthcare industry for 21 years, and has a passion for helping others. She hopes to continue making a positive impact in the healthcare industry and to those who paths she has crossed over the past several years. Personal Interests Nicolette is an original Austinite and enjoys spending time with her family, friends, and two dogs in her free time. Ashley Riojas Assistant Billing and Insurance Specialist Pronouns she/her Job Description I work in the Billing and Insurance office helping process patients claims. Personal Interests I love to travel, read, and listen to True Crime podcasts. I love to cook and be with family. Football is my favorite season. Brianna Rohrich Accountant Education Bachelor of Science, Management, North Dakota State University Pronouns she/her Job Description Brianna supports UHS, CMHC, CSR, and SHIFT with budgeting, forecasting, and other financial reports. Personal Interests In her free time, Brianna likes volunteering with my trained therapy dog, Izzy, traveling, trying new restaurants, and spending time with family and friends. Ronnie Ruiz Procurement Officer Education High School Diplomat / Las Vegas High Pronouns he/him Job Description Ronnie procures medical and office supplies for UHS and CMHC. Personal Interests In his free time, Ronnie enjoys cooking, and spending time with his wife Jennifer Russell Billing and Insurance Specialist Job Description Jennifer has worked in the insurance department since 2016. When she is not doing Credentialing and Privileging, her day consistd of patient billing, insurance entry, and follow up with insurance plans. Personal Interests She enjoys traveling, cooking, and spending time with family and friends. Lee Warren Administrative Associate Education Bachelor of Fine Arts, Southern Methodist University Pronouns He/him Job Description Lee manages purchasing, travel, and facilities for UHS and CMHC. Ashley Whitworth Billing and Insurance Assistant Manager Pronouns she/her Job Description Ashley provides managerial support to the Billing & Insurance department. In addition, she reviews medical documentation for medical coding compliance and assists with coding education. She has worked for UHS and CMHC since 2013. Professional Interests Ashley enjoys helping develop processes that improve the efficiency of the Billing/Insurance team, as well as growing the coding education and support for UHS and CMHC. Personal Interests In her free time, Ashley enjoys the company of her dog, Ringo, and two cats. She also loves hiking, gardening, and traveling. Her favorite travel location so far has been to Malaysia, but loves visiting her family in Germany as well. Melony Zellous Credentialing Coordinator Education Bachelor of Professional Studies, University of Memphis Pronouns she/her/hers Job Description In my role as the Credentialing Coordinator, I ensure that all providers and medical staff that carry any certifications and or licensures have successfully provided the most current and valid documentation to complete the HR vetting process. As the SR. Administration Associate I provide administrative support to the Associate Director of Business Services and assist SR. HR Coordinators with onboarding, separations, payroll, benefits, employee evaluations and NEO trainings Professional Interests Professionally my interests consist of proactively providing the best training, development, recruiting/onboarding experience for all potential /qualified new candidates. Personal Interests In my spare time I really enjoy being outside along with traveling, photography, crafting, decorating, cooking and reading. Back to Top Information Technology, Data and Research Brittany Boyer Manager, Research and Clinical Data Informatics Education Ph.D., Psychological Sciences, The University of Texas at Dallas Pronouns she/her Job Description Brittany oversees research and data informatics for the Healthyhorns portfolio. She leads the Data Informatics Team in developing processes to mine, analyze, and gain insights from big data to improve service delivery, inform strategic planning, and empower clinicians to make data-informed decisions. She also co-directs the National Research Consortium of Counseling Centers in Higher Education with Dr. Chris Brownson. The Consortium conducts large-scale, national studies on college student mental health and using data informatics and predictive analytics to improve mental health treatment in college counseling centers. Professional Interests Brittany has a passion for making data accessible to a variety of audiences and developing interactive tools that encourage staff at all levels of the organization to engage with data in their day-to-day work. Her research interests include research-practice partnerships in mental health, emerging adulthood as a foundational period for lifelong health and well-being, and advanced quantitative methods. Personal Interests Brittany enjoys running, sand volleyball, sci-fi books and movies, and spending time with her cat, Mark. Paul Gentle Senior Software Engineer Luke Klima Data Engineer/Database Coordinator Education Bachelor of Business Administration, Texas A&M University Pronouns He/Him/His Job Description Luke works with the Healthyhorns Data Informatics Team on various aspects of clinical analytics and reporting. He also supports staff with various aspects of the health record system. Professional Interests Luke enjoys working with and interacting with smart people and loves learning about novel ideas from just about any discipline. He is a strong believer in the value of generalism. Personal Interests Luke enjoys reading (non-fiction and classic lit), really likes music (consuming and making), and loves his family. He is always proud when he is able to write a short bio in a straightforward way, without going out of his way to make it weird. Huylar Lee Desktop Support Specialist Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science, University of Texas at Austin Pronouns He/Him/His Job Description Provide IT support to the UHS and CMHC. Keep inventory data updated. Prepare devices for use by other staff members. Professional Interests I am looking to learn and grow a toolset that will help me and my fellow staff members throughout my career. Personal Interests I enjoy playing videogames, scuba diving, and mushroom cultivating. I also enjoy learning new things or reading a best selling non-fiction book. Samuel Pitasky Graduate Assistant for Research and Clinical Data Informatics Education Bachelor of Arts, The University of Pennsylvania Psychology Certificate, Columbia University Pronouns he/him/his Job Description Sam assists with efforts to evaluate programs in both CMHC and UHS. This assessment is done to ensure that programs are achieving their stated goals, to report on progress to the University community, and to share insights and best practices more broadly in field of college student health. Professional Interests Sam is a doctoral student in Counseling Psychology here at UT Austin. His professional interests focus on college student mental health and the factors that contribute to positive identity development and flourishing. He is interested in both clinical and community-level approaches to college mental health and is currently a counselor in a community mental health clinic in Austin. Personal Interests In his free time, Sam enjoys playing tennis, riding motorcycles, cooking, and spending time with friends, family, and pets. Tony Ramirez Senior Desktop Support Specialist Robert Reed Assistant Director for IT Education Bachelor of Science, UT Austin Bachelor of Arts, UT Austin Pronouns He/Him/His Job Description Robert manages the team providing IT support to CMHC and UHS. The team supports everything from the network to the hardware and software used by staff. In addition the team is responsible for ensuring the privacy and security of the information collected by clinicians. Professional Interests Robert is interested in Health Information Management and Technology. He keeps current on best information security practices. He also likes to dabble in data analysis and reporting. Personal Interests When not working, he enjoy spending time with his wife, Anna, and his kids. He likes being in nature and also enjoys partaking of the local bounty Austin has to offer. Debra Steinman Software Developer/Analyst Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, New Mexico State University Pronouns she/her/hers Job Description Deb assists staff with all their technology needs. She maintains the Electronic Medical Records (EMR) database. She also produces SQL data solutions from the EMR. Professional Interests Deb enjoys coding visualization dashboards from the EMR data. She also gets a lot of gratification from helping people. Personal Interests For relaxation, Deb dabbles in all kinds of visual art, logic puzzles/games and binge TV watching shows. Her favorite time is when her kids come visit her. Her ultimate thing to do would be lounging in the sun on a balcony overlooking the beach, feeling the sea breeze on her face. Back to Top Public Information Team Chris Griffault Web Manager Education Bachelor of Arts, The University of Virginia Pronouns he/him/his Job Description Chris is responsible for designing and coding various sites with a focus on usability. Personal Interests Chris enjoys collecting first edition books, explaining to his wife why he needs more books, practicing Krav Maga, paddle boarding, and spending time with family. Susan Hochman Associate Director, Assessment, Communication and Data Informatics Education Bachelor of Science Education, University of Kansas Master of Public Health, Emory University Pronouns She/Her Job Description Susan provides strategic leadership over communications, assessment, data informatics, and health information technology for the Counseling and Mental Health Center and University Health Services. She is also the co-executive leader of SHIFT and leads the UT Health Care Entities Group. Professional Interests Susan has been involved with the field of college health since she was an undergraduate student at the University of Kansas where she worked as a student assistant at Watkins Memorial Health Center and established the peer health educator program. Susan started her professional career in college health as a health promotion professional. In recent years, Susan has transitioned from health promotion to administration where she focuses on strategic planning, building a health promoting environment and ensuring that programs and services are accessible, student-centered, and linked to the mission of the institution. She is excited to use data to build new models for addressing students’ health and wellbeing. Susan often cites her involvement with the American College Health Association as a highlight of her job and she is grateful to work with colleagues across the country to institute change on a national level. Susan has served the association in numerous volunteer and elected leadership positions, including Vice President of the ACHA Board of Directors, member-at-large to the board, chair of the Health Promotion section, Annual Meeting Program Planning Chair in 2014, 2017, and 2020 and was a co-author of the Framework for a Comprehensive College Health Program. Susan is currently the co-chair of the Benchmarking Advisory Committee and also a contributing member of the NCHA Advisory Committee where she helped developed the NCHA III. She also serves on the Leadership Institute Committee, Education Planning Committee, and leadership team for the Connected College Health Network. She is honored to be an ACHA Fellow. Personal Interests Susan enjoys watching Jeopardy, racing to complete the crossword puzzle, fitness, and spending time with her family. She also loves playing Scrabble and is undefeated at Bananagrams. Laura Kinch Assistant Director of Communication and Marketing Education Bachelor of Science, Journalism, The University of Kansas Bachelor of the Arts, Spanish Language and Literature, The University of Kansas Master of the Arts, Communication, The University of Texas at Arlington Pronouns She/her Job Description Laura assists the public information team with writing, project management, marketing and communication planning and implementation, staff supervision, media relations, serving as one of the liaisons between PIT and the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs, and reviewing and approving marketing and communication collateral. Personal Interests She enjoys the outdoors, exercising, spending time with her dog, cooking, music, and exploring the city of Austin. Andrew Mendoza Art Director Job Description Andrew is a passionate creative who focuses on being a mentor to students and staff. He serves as the founding member of the UT Creatives (resource groups of creative professionals at UT Austin). He strives in strategically creating an artistic vision come to life in communications from concept to execution for the organizations. Personal Interests Andrew cares deeply for everyone in the family (including pets), enjoys cooking dinner for the family, fixes whatever needs to fixed, handles whatever needs to be handled, and simply enjoys relaxing after another long day. Tanya S. Schmidt Program Coordinator Education Bachelor of Science, Interdisciplinary Studies, University of Central Florida Pronouns She/her Job Description Tanya provides administrative and event support to the Counseling and Mental Health Center. Professional Interests Tanya has always enjoyed art and design and integrates it into her work. She thrives in a creative team environment where she can put her design knowledge to use. Personal Interests She enjoys the outdoors, spending time with her 2 dogs, creating art, reading, and being a plant mom. Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet