Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved How to use telehealth services The Counseling and Mental Health Center offers services by video and phone, often referred to as “telehealth.” It might be tempting to put your mental health on hold right now, but it’s as important as ever to connect with mental health services. All you need is an Internet connection, a private location, and a device (any phone, tablet, or a computer with a camera). Telehealth services are confidential, effective, and participatory. You’ll receive the same individualized care as you would in person. If you are meeting with an off-campus mental health provider, you can reserve a private office in the CMHC for your telehealth session. Scroll to Step Two to learn more about the reservation process. Step One: Call Call us at 512-471-3515 and select “Option 3” to have a 10-15 minute conversation with one of our counselors. This initial phone call is not a counseling appointment, rather it’s a brief assessment of what’s going on in your life and how we can help. After this initial phone call, you’ll receive a recommendation for services. Step Two: Before your appointment Before you log in for your session, consider a few things: Privacy: If possible, find a private place to meet with your counselor where you won’t be interrupted or overheard. CMHC provides private offices for students with telehealth appointments. To reserve a private space for an appointment with a CMHC counselor, please speak with our staff when booking your appointment. You can also reserve the space for your scheduled appointment through your MyCMHC portal. Once you are in the portal, click on Appointments, Schedule an Appointment, Student Room Reservation at CMHC. You can also reserve a private space for an appointment with an off-campus counselor through your MyCMHC portal. Once you are in the portal, click on Appointments, Schedule an Appointment, Student Room Reservation at CMHC. Technology: Decide if you’ll be using a computer, phone or tablet and whether you’ll be using the device’s built-in speakers and microphone or using headphones with a microphone. Disruptions We know disruptions happen—a family member walks in, the fire alarm goes off, the Internet cuts out. We’ll talk with you about how to manage your situation so that disruptions aren’t a barrier. Step Three: Log in Individual appointments: Before your scheduled appointment, log in to the MyCMHC web portal and look for a secure message with directions for how to get started. View instructions about how to start your video telehealth appointment. Groups: Joining groups is a little different, but simple. Learn more about groups offered. Step Four: Online paperwork The secure message will direct you to log in to the MyCMHC web portal where you’ll be prompted to fill out some online paperwork. Give yourself about 15-30 minutes before your appointment to complete this. Step Five: After your session You’re done until next time. Your counselor might give you some tasks to work on between sessions. Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet