UT University Health Services https://wwww.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ APPOINTMENTS MyUHS SERVICES ABOUT UHS LOCATION CONTACT Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment Coronavirus updates COVID Positive: What To do Medical emergencies and what to do when UHS is closed Nurse Advice Line Charges and Insurance Immunizations and medical clearance requirements Medical and immunization record requests Search a health topic Meet the staff Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Affordable UT Student Health Insurance Plan Your feedback Incoming students International students LGBTQIA+ inclusive healthcare Longhorn Wellness Center Emergency HIV risk reduction Pharmacy Resources Sexual Assault Forensic Exams Volunteering FOLLOW US (512) 471-4955 Email UHS LOCATION 100 West Dean Keaton Student Services Building (SSB) https://www.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ Appointments MyUHS Services About UHS Location Contact UHS Longhorn Wellness Peer Educators The goal of the Longhorn Wellness Peer Educator program is to actively engage students in building necessary skills to be effective health promotion leaders on campus. Longhorn Wellness Peer Educators work to empower fellow UT students to make well-informed decisions about their wellbeing and positively influence a healthy campus culture. Meet the 2021-2022 Longhorn Wellness Peer Educators. REQUEST WORKSHOPS Become a Longhorn Wellness Peer Educator! There are many benefits of being a Longhorn Wellness Peer Educator, including: Earning academic credit for public health experience Gaining knowledge on a variety of health topics relevant to college students, which may include mental health, sleep, substance use, healthy sexuality and more! Positively influencing your peers and UT campus Helping students connect mental and physical well-being Building public speaking and group facilitation skills Advocating for a healthier campus and creating change in a meaningful way Talking to fellow students about sensitive health and wellness topics Developing leadership skills and engaging in professional development Becoming part of a supportive team Engaging in opportunities to practice self-care Service Hours In addition to academic learning, peer educators are required to complete service hours that include outreach, workshop facilitation, tabling, planning wellness programs, mentorship, participation in UT’s Wellness Network, and other support for the Longhorn Wellness Center. Program Outline and Requirements Peer educators must commit to three consecutive long semesters (fall-spring-fall). There are no academic prerequisites for the Longhorn Wellness Peer Educator program. Semester Course Credit Service Hours Course Code Course Description 1 (fall) 3 hours 10 HED 378I Prepare to be a peer educator through discussions, lectures, readings, assignments, shadowing of senior peer educators and interactive exercises. Start the planning of a campus health initiative and learn about a variety of health topics. 2 (spring) 1 hour 20 HED 178G Take the lead on conducting campus outreach through facilitating workshops, tabling and other events while continuing to develop your own campus health initiative. Learn about different resources and services available to students. 3 (fall) 1 hour 30 HED 178J Continue to conduct campus outreach through facilitating workshops, tabling and other events as a senior peer educator while serving as a mentor to incoming peer educators. Complete the development of your campus health initiative and learn about community health resources and services. *For those in the Bridging Disciplines Program, the first semester class (HED 378I) meets the requirement for credit in Ethics and Leadership (under the Ethics of Health Care strand); Social Inequality, Health, and Policy (under Public Health as well as Family, Fertility, and the Life Course); and Social Entrepreneurship and Non-Profits (under the Health and Health Care strand). Questions? Contact us at (512) 475-8252 or email longhornwellnesscenter@austin.utexas.edu. INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement STI Testing Sexual assault forensic exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and Immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations or gender identities/expression. SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations, or gender identities/expression. INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement Get yourself tested Sexual assault exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff Home l ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin l UT Emergency Information l Accessibility l Privacy l Finding Credible Health Information Online l Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination l Staff Intranet