Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved CMHC Service Extension Fee Business Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm Appointment-Scheduling hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00am-12:00pm & 1:00pm-4:00pm Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor Currently enrolled UT students can use the Counseling and Mental Health Center because these services are funded, in part, by tuition. Current students do not need to sign up or pay a separate fee. Other qualified individuals, such as UT students who are taking a semester off but were registered for both the previous semester and are registered or intend to register for the following semester, are eligible for CMHC services after paying the service extension fee. Counseling and Mental Health Center services are subject to limitations on duration and frequency of services. Payment of the subscription fee does not override these limitations. Who should pay the CMHC Service Extension Fee? Students between Semesters For continuity of care, students who attended UT last semester, aren't currently taking classes here, and plan to return next semester may pay the fee for access during the gap semester. Typically, these are students taking a summer semester away from UT to work or study elsewhere. Post-Doctoral Fellows and University/Visiting Scholars Post-docs and visiting scholars who are not officially registered for classes at UT Austin can pay the access fee. Specific documentation from the program with which they are affiliated is required. Future Students Individuals registered at UT for a future semester and not the current one can pay the fee for access during the semester immediately before their first semester at UT. Cost and Coverage The CMHC Service Extension Fee is $25 per semester The service extension fee is an access fee, not health insurance. After a student pays the fee, the individual can use CMHC services through the end of that semester. The fee is non-refundable and cannot be prorated, meaning it costs the same even after the semester begins. After students pay the service extension fee, they are charged the same amount for services as they would pay during any regular semester that they are enrolled. Individual counseling appointments are $10 but fully subsidized by the university, meaning that students do not pay the charge. Psychiatry appointments are $15 and are subsidized partially; students are responsible for covering $10 of their psychiatry appointment charge. To learn more about charges at CMHC, click here. We never want charges to be a barrier to service. If you’re unable to pay a CMHC charge, you can apply for the Student Emergency Services Fund. This fund provides limited emergency financial support to currently enrolled students who are unable to meet essential expenses due to a temporary or unexpected hardship. Simply visit Student Emergency Services in the Office of the Dean of Students (located only one floor below the Counseling and Mental Health Center in the same building) after your service to find out more or apply online. Signing up for the CMHC Extension Fee Students should call CMHC at (512) 471-3515 to speak with one of our Brief Assessment and Referral (BART) counselors to inquire about making an appointment. Students who are eligible to access CMHC services and who need to pay the $25 Service Extension Fee will be billed at this time. Payment can be made through the student's "What I Owe" page. CMHC makes every effort to work with students to set up flexible payment options. Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet