About VAV Contact Home About VAV Get Involved Bring VAV to You Quick Escape Contact About VAV Calendar Survivor Services Theatre for Dialogue Bring VAV to You Issues Get Involved Contact VAV Healthy Relationships The 7 C’s of Healthy Relationships Conflict resolution – The ability to find a peaceful solution to a disagreement. Conflict resolution does not mean one person always gets their way - no one should feel pressured to compromise their values or boundaries. Conflict resolution also does not mean that conflicts are "bottled up" or not addressed. For more information about navigating conflict resolution, visit fighting fair. Checking In – Paying attention to each other’s needs and taking each other into account when making decisions that affect both of you. It is also important to check in with yourself and assess if you feel safe, comfortable and respected in your relationship. Consent – An enthusiastic, mutual agreement that can be revoked at any time for any reason and is necessary in all sexual interactions. Consent is also important in contexts other than sexual activity, including other kinds of physical intimacy (like hugs) and for virtual activity like sharing sexual texts or images. For more, visit Consent. Courage – Choosing to address difficult topics and hear feedback and being open and being open and honest about your feelings and needs. Courage can also include being an ally for partners and friends who are experiencing bias incidents or other incidents of harm – to read more about bystander intervention, visit BeVocal. Practicing courage does not mean putting yourself in situations where you feel unsafe or might experience harm. Compassion – Thoughtfulness and sensitivity toward others and a desire to reduce distress and provide support. Practicing compassion does not require fixing others’ problems or always agreeing with others. Celebration – Appreciation for each other and your relationship. Celebration includes excitement about each other’s hopes, dreams, and accomplishments and appreciation of each person’s uniqueness. Take time to learn how each partner prefers to celebrate and be celebrated. Communication – Expressing needs, wants and feelings and listening for the purpose of understanding. Beginning A Relationship Build a foundation of appreciation and respect. Practice celebrating each other and your relationship by noticing even small opportunities to say "thank you." Explore each other's interests and try new things together. Establish a pattern of mutual respect and accountability. As Your Relationship Grows Remember that Relationships Grow and Change. Navigating change may be confusing or difficult, but you can work together to maintain open and respectful communication and welcome change as an opportunity to enhance your relationship. Check in Periodically. Set aside time to check in with each other about changing expectations and goals. Additionally, check in with yourself about what you want and need. Maintain Individual Identity. Your partner will not be able to meet all your needs. Some of these needs will have to be met outside of the relationship. Do not demand that a partner change to meet all your expectations and respect each other’s unique interests, priorities, and goals. Ending Relationships Communicate Directly and Respectfully. Unless you are concerned about your physical or emotional safety, tell your partner directly that you have decided to end the relationship. Take Care of Yourself. Break-ups can be difficult. Spend time with supportive friends or family, practice self-compassion, and engage in activities that bring you joy. Relationship Issues and Counseling If you have questions or concerns about your relationship or how you are feeling, counseling may help. Counseling can also help you identify and address patterns in your relationships. UT students can contact the UT Counseling and Mental Health Center at 512-471-3515 or call the CMHC Crisis Line at 512-471-CALL (2255) for help or information about local counseling services. Voices Against Violence Healthy Relationships Tips Tip 1 Tip 2 Tip 3 Tip 4 Crisis Line Short-Term Individual Counseling Group Counseling Advocacy Safety Planning Reporting Options Referrals (on & off campus) Survivor's Emergency Fund Make a gift to the Survivor's Emergency Fund Prevention Consent Healthy Relationships Dating and Relationship Violence Sexual Violence Stalking How to Support a Survivor How to Obtain a Protective Order (PDF) Calendar of Events Get Sexy, Get Consent VAV Workshops and Training VAV Student Organization VAV Support Campaign BeVocal Get Academic Credit VAV Home About VAV Get Involved Make a Gift Contact Survivor Services Crisis Line Brief Individual Counseling Group Counseling Advocacy Safety Planning Immediate Medical Options Reporting Options Referrals (on & off campus) Survivor's Emergency Fund Make a gift to the Survivor's Emergency Fund Issues Prevention Consent Healthy Relationships Dating And Relationship Violence Sexual Violence Stalking How to Help a Survivor Get Involved Get Sexy, Get Consent VAV Student Organization VAV Support Campign BeVocal Get Academic Credit ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Reoport a Bias Incident Make a Gift Intranet Home About VAV Get Involved Contact VAV SURVIVOR SERVICES Crisis Line Individual Counseling Group Counseling Advocacy Safety Planning Immediate Medical Options Reporting Options Referrals (on & off campus) ISSUES Prevention Consent Healthy Relationships Dating and Relationship Violence Sexual Violence Stalking How to Help a Survivor GET INVOLVED Theatre for Dialogue Get Sexy, Get Consent VAV Student Organization VAV Support Campaign Be Vocal Get Academic Credit Report a Bias Incident