Contact MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC About CMHC Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Self-Care Self care activities Virtual mindfulness and stress reduction activities Student mental health resources Wellness App: Thrive at UT Self-paced Learning: MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Counseling & Medication Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. Groups & classes Short-term individual counseling Medication and psychiatric services Wellness workshops and events Questions and answers Off-campus counseling / mental health resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Prevention & Outreach About Prevention & Outreach Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Virtual offerings for groups Request a presentation Request materials VAV student involvement Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Peer education Get involved Due to weather conditions and the delayed start of The University of Texas at Austin on 1/16/2018, the UT Counseling and Mental Health Center will open at 10am. More Information CMHC Crisis Line is available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Virtual Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Groups available this semester Wellness Workshops & Events Wellness Workshops and Events The Counseling and Mental Health Center offers a wide variety of services and programs to meet students’ mental health needs. The services listed below are free workshops and events intended to provide valuable life skills. While these wellness workshops and events are often led by a licensed mental health professional, and students may certainly find them to be therapeutic, they are not considered formal therapy. Any student can attend the programs listed below regardless of whether they are receiving other services at CMHC. Some options are one-time events, some are drop-in based, and others are brief series requiring prior enrollment. We hope to expand these offerings over time and are interested in student feedback about what kinds of topics or events would be of most interest. Please click here to submit your suggestions for wellness events or series you would like to see offered. Wellness Workshops and Events Finding a Counselor 101 Wednesdays, 5 to 6 p.m. CST 6/8 - 8/10 Louis Haling Virtual In this one-session workshop, CMHC staff will guide you through the process of finding a counselor outside of UT. If you are considering therapy but are unsure whether it’s for you, don’t know how to pay for counseling or are wondering how to find the right counselor, this workshop can help. Participants will learn the basics of accessing mental health care in the community, including: Why people see counselors How to use your insurance for mental health care Low-cost counseling options Searching for, selecting, and contacting counselors This is not a therapy group, and you do not have to be a CMHC client to enroll. Please sign up at least one day in advance. The workshop facilitators will email you instructions for Zoom before the workshop. Sign up for this Workshop Life Skills: How to be a Successful College Student Tuesdays, 2 to 3:30 p.m. CST 6/7 - 8/2 Arna Erega CMHC (5th floor SSB) This four-session workshop series is designed to help students learn about themselves and how to manage stress and anxiety to live a healthy, successful and independent life in college. Each session is focused on a different aspect of life management that has historically been found to cause distress among the collegiate student population. The coping tools and skills taught in these workshops are derived from cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) approaches, which are evidence-based and known to support alleviation of stress, anxiety and depressive symptoms. Session topics include: How to deal with stress, uncertainty and anxiety Organizational and management skills Identifying and setting culturally appropriate boundaries Management of our own and other people’s expectations Each session has a lecture and discussion component as well as an interactive exercise or activity. Participants can expect to learn coping skills and tools they will be able to implement immediately to assist them in better managing their personal and academic lives. Participants are asked to attend all four workshop sessions. The modules can be completed in any order, so students can start the workshops at any time of the semester. This is not a therapy group, and you do not have to be a CMHC client to enroll. Sign up for this Workshop Mindfulness Meditation Group View details on our groups and classes page. Yoga for Trauma and Healing Workshop Wednesdays, 2 to 3:15 p.m. CST Series 1: 6/8 - 6/29 Series 2: 7/6 - 7/27 (students can enroll mid-section and attend multiple sections) Kristen Pearson and Ayesha Akbar Virtual This workshop series is for students who have experienced trauma and are looking for support with their own healing experience. Trauma-informed yoga focuses on themes of grounding, choice, connection with one's body, trauma/stress response, and regulation. Through the practice, participants will also learn mindfulness skills to practice being in the present moment with intention. This is a virtual workshop, and participants are required to keep their video on during sessions to ensure they are practicing yoga safely. No prior yoga experience is necessary. Open to all fitness and ability levels. This is not a traditional therapy group, and you do not need to be a CMHC client to enroll. Please sign up at least one day in advance. The workshop facilitators will email you instructions for Zoom before the workshop. Sign up for this Workshop Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet