Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC The Counseling and Mental Health Center is closed on Monday, May 30 in observance of Memorial Day. If you are in crisis, call the 24/7 Crisis Line at 512-471-2255 (CALL). You can also access counseling services 24/7 through the My SSP app and website. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Counseling Services for All UT Students – Anytime, Anywhere Access 24/7 confidential virtual counseling (single session or short term and immediate or scheduled) available via phone and chat, and more through My SSP. More About My SSP How may we help you? The Counseling and Mental Health Center (CMHC) provides counseling, psychiatric, consultation, and prevention services that facilitate students' academic and life goals and enhance their personal growth and well-being. Crisis I am having a crisis and need to talk to someone now. Get Started Get Started: Connect to Counseling Services Discover which services are right for me including immediate support. Get Started Well-Being Resources Learn about the MindBody Labs, THRIVE app, and more. Get Started Groups and Workshops Groups At CMHC, we offer a wide variety of therapy groups that address a range of student needs. Join a Group Wellness Workshops Learn valuable coping skills for tackling life’s challenges and maximizing your well-being. Join a Workshop Voices Against Violence Voices Against Violence (VAV) offers comprehensive violence prevention and response programs. We address issues of interpersonal violence, such as sexual violence, dating violence, and stalking. More Details Be That One. Suicide Prevention Program Suicide is believed to be the second leading cause of death for college students. Visit the Be that One site to support students struggling with thoughts of suicide, to stay informed about suicide prevention, and to find ways you can get involved in suicide prevention at UT-Austin. More Details Thrive Thrive at UT is a free app designed to enhance UT student well-being and help students navigate through challenging times. Thrive helps you make small changes in your routine that have powerful long-term impacts. More Details Mental Health Conversations Mental Health Conversations is a simulation platform that allows faculty, staff and students to practice having important and life-saving conversations with students who are experiencing distress and/or suicidal ideation. The platform also teaches participants when and how to make a referral to campus mental health resources. More Details UPDATES COVID-19 Self-Test Kits All students, faculty and staff can pick up free COVID-19 self-test kits at various distribution sites around campus. More Information New Summer 2022 Counseling Groups Group counseling offers a unique setting in which peer interactions facilitate self-improvement and provide a sense of community. More Information Common Student Concerns We have a put together resources which explore common student concerns. Some common concerns: Anxiety Anger Depresssion Sleep Time Managemnt Perfectionism Grief and Loss Fighting Fair Healthy Relationships Loneliness Self-Esteem Racial Trauma View All Concerns We're here for you. We recognize that many UT students are being impacted by historical and recent events. The CMHC holds firm to the university’s values and commitment to diversity and inclusion. Our staff are here to help students navigate through these times. Resources Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet