Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Information for Parents and Families Business Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Appointment-Scheduling hours are Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. - noon & 1 p.m. - 4 p.m. Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor The Counseling & Mental Health Center (CMHC) is available to assist students with many of their personal concerns so that they can meet the daily challenges of student life. Counseling services are provided by psychologists, psychiatrists, social workers, and other mental health professionals. Note: There is a $25 fee if students do not attend a scheduled appointment and do not cancel by noon the day before the appointment. More Information on Fees Helpful Links Parents FAQ Contact Us Texas One Stop – Withdraw from the University Welcome Message to Parents The Counseling and Mental Health Center welcomes you and your student to The University of Texas at Austin! The transition to college can be exciting, and stressful for families. Parents may be unsure what to expect for their student and what the transition means for their family. To find out what you and your student may experience, please take a few minutes to watch this video. Important Things to Remember as Your Child Transitions to College Remember that your son or daughter's transition to college is a transition for you as well The transition to college can be a stressful experience for parents, especially if your son or daughter hasn't lived away from home before. During this important time of transition for the family, many parents put their own feelings and reactions "on hold" while helping their child prepare for university life. However, attending to your own emotional needs will go a long way toward helping everyone feel comfortable with the challenges that college presents. Recognize that feelings of ambivalence, anxiety, and excitement about your child's leaving home are normal You may feel a variety of emotions as your son or daughter prepares to leave for home for the first time. You may feel ambivalent and anxious as your son or daughter prepares to leave home for the first time. While ambivalence and anxiety are common during this period of transition, it is also normal to look forward to the relative peace and quiet of having your active older adolescent out of the house. You may be excited to have the place to yourself, or to have more time to spend with your spouse and/or younger children. Remember that coming to the University is a tremendously important developmental step toward full adulthood It represents the culmination of 18 years or so of learning, much of which has been geared toward assuming a productive place in the world. This is the time when your hard work as a parent will show itself as your son or daughter begins to make independent choices. Many parents find that it helps to focus on the fact that providing their son or daughter with this opportunity is a priceless gift. Be proud of yourself! What Can I Do to Help My Child from a Distance? Of course, you are still a parent to your son or daughter, and s/he still needs your support and guidance during the college years. Here are some ways you can express your caring and enhance his or her experience at UT. Stay in touch Even though your son or daughter is experimenting with independent choices, s/he still needs to know that you're there and available to discuss both normal events and difficult issues. Make arrangements to write, email, or call on a regular basis. It may be helpful to have a conversation about how often s/he would like you to check-in. Allow your son or daughter to set the agenda for some of your conversations If s/he needs help or support, the subject is more likely to come up if you aren't asking pointedly about what time s/he came in last night! Be realistic about financial matters Students should come to school with a fairly detailed plan about who will pay for tuition, fees, books, and room and board, and what the family's expectations are about spending money. Being specific at the outset may help avoid misunderstandings later. Don't forget about the costs of social activities, which are an important part of the college experience. Be realistic about academic achievement and grades The University attracts bright students from all over the world, and not every student who excelled academically in high school will be a straight-A student at UT. Developing or refining the capacity to work independently and consistently, and to demonstrate mastery, can be as important as grades, as long as the student meets the basic academic requirements set out by the University. Again, these are choices that each individual student makes, though certainly it is appropriate to help your child set his or her own long-term goals. What should I do if my student is withdrawing from UT? Reasons for choosing to withdraw from the university are many and varied. To find supportive resources for your student as their going through the process, visit the Student Emergency Services website. As this website says, we hope the links on this website will help you in identifying campus and community resources that may be helpful during and after your student's withdrawal and upon re-admittance. Please be aware that this is not an exhaustive list, and the community resources listed are not affiliated with The University of Texas at Austin. If your son or daughter experiences difficulties at UT, encourage him or her to take advantage of the wealth of resources available to students For academic issues, talking with the professor, teaching assistant, or academic advisor is probably the first step, but the Learning Skills Center and Career Exploration Center are also available to help. In addition, the Office of the Dean of Students can assist with a variety of concerns. Any health concerns should be directed to the University Health Services. If your son or daughter could benefit from counseling, the Counseling and Mental Health Center is located on campus and can be accessed by: 512-471-3515 (M-F, 8 a.m. - 4 p.m.) or 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) (24 hours/day, 7 days/week). UT is a big place, but you can help your son or daughter by reminding him or her of the many resources available here. Sanger Learning and Career Center Office of the Dean of Students University Health Services Helpful Coping Strategies for Parents Allow yourself to have emotions There is little benefit in pretending that you don't feel sad, guilty, relieved, apprehensive, worried, etc. about the transition to UT. A healthier approach is to discuss your feelings with your family, friends, clergy, or whoever is a source of support for you. Talking with other parents of college-bound students can be particularly helpful. Make "overall wellness" a goal for yourself During stressful times, it helps to get enough sleep, eat healthy meals regularly, and get adequate exercise. Spending time doing the things you like is another step toward wellness. If you are feeling good, you are more likely to have the energy to help your son or daughter to be a good role model. Find a new creative outlet for yourself Many parents find that taking on a new challenge is an excellent way to manage and channel their energy and feelings. Have you ever wanted to travel? Volunteer in your community? Assume a new project or responsibility at work? Write a book? Learn to fly-fish? Make a quilt? Get your own bicycle and ride all over town? Make a list of all the things you intended to do while your child was growing up, but never had the time to do. Now is your chance! Be patient with the transition It is important to recognize that it will take some time to develop the right balance between your son or daughter's developing need for independence and their simultaneous need for support and guidance. Every student is different in this regard and has different needs, and these needs will almost certainly change over time. In addition, students don't always know how much independence they can handle or how much support they will actually need. So, be patient, and understand that it will likely take some time for everyone to figure this out. Consider joining Texas Parents , a resource dedicated to helping parents help their students. Don’t hesitate to call Texas Parents at 512-471-2353 with questions. Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet