Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Questions and Answers Business Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm Appointment-Scheduling hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00am-12:00pm & 1:00pm-4:00pm Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor How do I log in for my video telehealth appointment? View instructions for how to log in for your video telehealth appointment. Where are you located? CMHC is located on the 5th floor of the Student Services Building. Campus Map How do you make an appointment? Appointments can be made in person by coming to CMHC or by calling 512-471-3515. About Individual Counseling Can I request a particular counselor based on gender identity, cultural identity/background, sexual identity, specialty area, etc.? Yes, please let the counselor know if you have particular counselor preferences when you call or come by CMHC to make an appointment. We have counselors from many different backgrounds, cultures, identities and specialty areas. Students are free to request individuals that they might be more comfortable meeting with. Diversity Statement Are services available in any language other than English? We have counselors who speak Spanish. At times, we have other counselors who speak other languages. Feel free to call and ask. How long is each appointment? Counseling appointments are generally 45 minutes long. The total time period required for the initial consultation or intake appointment is approximately 90 minutes, so be sure to keep this in mind when scheduling your appointment. Psychiatric Appointments are usually one hour for the first appointment (more time might be needed if additional paperwork is required) and 30 minutes for follow-up appointments. Do you provide after-hours emergency mental health services? Yes. If a problem arises after business hours or on the weekends, call our CMHC Crisis Line line at 512-471-2255. A counselor is available to talk with you about your concerns 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. In the case of a life-threatening emergency, please call 911 immediately. Crisis Services - I Need to Talk to Someone Now What if I'm concerned about another person's behavior? Call the Behavioral Concerns Advice Line (BCAL) at 512-232-5050 if you are concerned about the behavior of a UT student, faculty, or staff member. Trained staff will assist you in exploring available strategies, and will also provide appropriate guidance and resource referrals. Behavior Concerns Advice Line If you have concerns regarding an individual's behavior who is not at UT, or even your own behavior, call our CMHC Crisis Line at 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only). Do many students use CMHC? Yes. In fact, it is quite common for students to come for a talk with a counselor. Being in college or graduate school entails many changes and challenges: leaving home, choosing majors, negotiating intimate relationships, and moving on when graduation approaches. It is natural for people to want to talk with someone about these complex developmental issues. And, of course, other students may have additional concerns such as depression, anxiety, eating concerns, self-esteem issues, sexuality, family illnesses, and so on. The CMHC staff is sensitive to the broad range of concerns that students have. What if I can't make a scheduled appointment? Call the front desk at 512-471-3515 as soon as possible after you become aware that you cannot come to your appointment. You can leave a message on the voicemail if you are calling outside of business hours. Please try to call at least 24 hours before your scheduled meeting. There is a $25 fee for appointments that are not cancelled by noon the day before the appointment. Will my privacy be protected? CMHC takes student privacy and confidentiality very seriously. Our records are separate from your academic records and cannot be released without your permission. See our confidentiality policy for more detailed information. Confidentiality and Notice of Privacy Practices What can I expect in the first appointment at CMHC? Getting Started What resources are available if I have Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder? ADHD Resources at U.T. Austin What if I am not happy with the counselor I am assigned, or with my experience at CMHC? Generally, it is possible to change counselors if you do not feel you are well-matched with the person you are seeing. If you have difficulties with any aspect of your service at CMHC, call 512-471-3515 and ask to speak with Dr. Marla Craig, Assistant Director for Clinical Services. You can also submit an electronic feedback form. CMHC Online Feedback Form I am doing a class project and need to interview someone at CMHC. How can I do this? Please contact Katy Redd at kredd@austin.utexas.edu or Sherry Bell at s.bell@uhs.utexas.edu. Does CMHC or UHS provide letters of support for Emotional Support Animals? The Counseling and Mental Health Center and University Health Services do not make recommendations or offer letters of support for Emotional Support Animals (ESAs). Research regarding the use of ESAs remains inconclusive; however, if a student is interested in an ESA, we recommend seeking a mental health provider who has an interest in this field. CMHC is committed to providing UT students with excellent services, so any feedback is always welcomed. Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet