Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Racial Trauma CMHC Business Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor What is racial trauma? Racial trauma is the experience of encountering racism and/or negative or harmful racial encounters as a person of color. This can happen either directly or indirectly by witnessing or hearing about racist acts that involve loved ones, those in your community, or individuals whose identity closely aligns to yours. Racial trauma is sometimes also described as race-based stress, race-related distress, or racial injury. What does racial trauma look or feel like? Symptoms related to distress manifest differently for individuals based on their unique experiences. As a result, members of marginalized racial groups will have their own nuanced experience of racial trauma. However, research indicates that negative or dangerous racial experiences can lead to symptoms such as: Depression Anger Physical symptoms such as stomach aches, headaches, and fatigue Avoidance Hypervigilance Intrusive thoughts Low self esteem These symptoms can impact the interpersonal, professional, and academic aspects of an individual’s life. Racial discrimination negatively impacts life satisfaction. If you are a student of color experiencing negative, uncomfortable, or dangerous racial encounters that are causing distress or are struggling to process your experience of racist acts know that we are here for you. How do I cope with racial trauma? Understand your experience Having the words to understand and articulate your experiences is powerful. Confusion related to your internal experience may increase feelings of distress, helplessness, and hopelessness. Find books, articles, podcasts, etc. related to defining, validating, and understanding racial trauma to increase your sense of awareness. Engage in self-care that is empowering and protective Understanding your own experience of racial trauma will also help you be intentional about your self-care practices. Engaging in self-care can range from limiting your social media use in an effort to avoid racial trauma triggers to engaging in activities that will increase feelings of empowerment. Whatever you choose, remember to be mindful of the function that it serves and be kind and compassionate towards yourself as you figure out what you need. Reach out for support and help When experiencing distress, there is a tendency to turn inwards and isolate from others for fear of being judged. Instead, consider connecting with friends and family to talk about those feelings, join in coping activities, and/or increase your sense of belongingness. Engaging in therapy if you choose is a helpful way to get support and understanding around your trauma experience. Find places where your experiences are heard and validated One symptom of racial trauma is feeling as if your racial identity or experiences will not be accepted. It is important to find places that challenge this notion. Find time to spend with individuals or join organizations that serve as safe and affirming places where you can share your experiences, process your thoughts, learn from others, or engage in joyful moments that increase your sense of belongingness and community. Resources CMHC resources Identity-based groups and workshops Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists UT Austin resources Resources on Equity and Anti-Racism Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Buffering Against the Impact of Racial Trauma LatinXperts Podcast La Tiendita The Center for Asian American Studies John L. Warfield Center for African and African American Studies Teresa Lozano Long Institute of Latin American Studies Native American Indigenous Studies Multicultural Engagement Center Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet