Contact MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC About CMHC Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Self-Care Self care activities Virtual mindfulness and stress reduction activities Student mental health resources Wellness App: Thrive at UT Self-paced Learning: MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Counseling & Medication Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. Groups & classes Short-term individual counseling Medication and psychiatric services Wellness workshops and events Questions and answers Off-campus counseling / mental health resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Prevention & Outreach About Prevention & Outreach Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Virtual offerings for groups Request a presentation Request materials VAV student involvement Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Peer education Get involved Due to weather conditions and the delayed start of The University of Texas at Austin on 1/16/2018, the UT Counseling and Mental Health Center will open at 10am. More Information CMHC Crisis Line is available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Virtual Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Groups and Classes Business Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm CST Appointment-scheduling hours are Monday through Friday, 8am to 5pm CST Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor All groups are free and confidential. Jump to list of this semester’s groups Wellness Workshops & Events Group Information College students often face overwhelming emotions, difficult relationships and adjustments, and academic problems for which a group may be the best support option – often being more beneficial than one-on-one counseling. Groups offer a unique setting in which peer interactions facilitate self-improvement and the alleviation of suffering. Participants often feel less alone in their struggles, with the group providing a sense of community. CMHC offers therapy groups, therapeutic classes, and skill-building workshops that address a range of student needs. Some students are initially hesitant to participate in a group, but those who join consistently find them to be a beneficial and positive experience. New groups start each semester. Most therapy and support groups have five to ten members. Classes and workshops, which are more educational and skill building in nature, may be larger. The number of sessions per group varies, concluding before finals. Usually, students meet in advance with the facilitator(s) to discuss their interest. Students can attend others on a drop-in basis. If you are interested in a group that is full, can call (512) 471-3515 or come by CMHC Monday through Friday between 8am and 5pm to discuss your needs. If you don’t see a group that's relevant or helpful to you, Submit a suggestion or request to the CMHC Group Coordinator for other groups you’d like to see CMHC offer. For questions about CMHC groups, contact Dr. Kate Czar at (512) 471-3515. Read more about groups Benefits of Group Counseling Group Q&A Testimonials Groups and Classes Drop-In Discussion Groups See other categories on this page for additional drop-in group options. DROP-IN Black Voices: A Supportive Group for Black Students Mondays, 2:30 to 4:00 p.m. CST 6/6 - 8/1 (not meeting on 7/4) Tina Alexander Virtual Please note that discussion groups are not therapy groups. All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This weekly discussion group is open to Black-identified students, regardless of nationality or racial/ethnic background. The group engages in safe, engaging and authentic discussion around students' experiences as Black and African American students on the UT campus. From race relations to career development and from cultural appropriation to sexuality and dating in the Black community, students are welcome to discuss any topic that is relevant to their experiences. Topics may include, but are not limited to, the current sociopolitical climate, the psychosocial impact of racial injustice, systemic issues that historically and currently marginalize and oppress the Black community, religious and spiritual development and identity development in the Black community. Registration – Follow the link below to enter your email address by the evening prior to the group session. This allows the facilitator to provide you with the Zoom link through which you can access the group. For questions or more information - Contact Tina Alexander. Request Zoom Link DROP-IN CPT, OPT, H1B: Discussion Group for International Students Figuring Out Their Next Steps Fridays, 2 to 3:30 p.m. CST 6/3 - 8/5 Arna Erega Virtual Please note that discussion groups are not therapy groups. All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This discussion group is for international students who are preparing for the transition from their roles as full-time students to professional environments such as internships, externships, or part- or full-time employment. The purpose of the group is to create a safe environment where international students can discuss their successes and challenges with these transitions and job searches. Participants will have the opportunity to talk about their experiences, process stress, frustration, anxiety, receive peer support and learn skills to better cope along the way. This group is drop-in based, and students can attend one, some or all sessions. Registration – Follow the link below to enter your email address by the evening prior to the group session. This allows the facilitator to provide you with the Zoom link through which you can access the group. For questions or more information - Contact Arna Erega. Request Zoom Link DROP-IN Drop-in Family Dynamics Support Circle Thursdays, 1 to 2 p.m. CST 6/16 - 8/4 Kimberly Bird Virtual Please note that discussion groups are not therapy groups. All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This semi-structured drop-in group is for students who want to reflect on family concerns, understand one's family structure from a culturally informed perspective and learn skills to navigate healthy interactions with family members. Educational information will be provided each week on a specific topic that relates to family experiences (e.g., self-esteem, family dynamics, interpersonal conflict, familial pressure and/or lack of a support system at home). Participants will also have the opportunity to share and receive support around their own personal family experiences if desired. Registration – Follow the link below to enter your email address by the evening prior to the group session. This allows the facilitator to provide you with the Zoom link through which you can access the group. For questions or more information - Contact Kimberly Bird . Request Zoom Link DROP-IN The Juggling Act: Drop-in Support for Students Who Are Parents/Caregivers Wednesdays, 1 to 2 p.m. CST 6/8 - 8/3 Bryce Moffett and Alexandra Okeke-Banks Virtual Please note that discussion groups are not therapy groups. All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This drop-in group is for students who are parents or caregivers. Being a caregiver and a student can lead to juggling many challenging responsibilities while running on little to no sleep. This group is designed to provide a safe, confidential atmosphere and the opportunity to receive support and feedback from peers. Topics discussed may include finding balance, self-care as a caregiver, mindful parenting, asking for and accepting support, letting go of “parent guilt,” and any other topics that feel relevant to participants. This group is drop-in based, and students can attend one, some or all sessions. Feel free to schedule an appointment with group facilitators to explore whether the group may be a good fit for you. Registration – Follow the link below to enter your email address by the evening prior to the group session. This allows the facilitator to provide you with the Zoom link through which you can access the group. For questions or more information - Contact Bryce Moffett or Alexandra Banks. Request Zoom Link DROP-IN Latinx Voices: A Supportive Space for Latinx Students Tuesdays, 10 to 11:30 a.m. 6/14 - 7/26 Joanna Menendez GWB 1.138 (Seminar Room) Please note that discussion groups are not therapy groups. All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This weekly discussion group is open to all Latin- identified students, regardless of identities, nationality, or racial/ethnic background and/or immigration status. A willingness to engage in respectful conversation and honor group members' privacy is the only other requirement to attend. The group provides a safe and supportive atmosphere in which participants can engage in inviting and authentic discussion around students' experiences as Latinx students on the UT campus. Any and all topics that are relevant to students' experiences can be discussed such as sociopolitical issues, immigration status or conditions, intersecting identities, academics, and more. Students' privacy will be respected. Registration - Not necessary. Participants are not required to participate each week and can drop in for one, some or all group sessions. Click the link below to receive reminder emails about the group. For questions or more information - Contact Joanna Menendez. Request Reminder Email DROP-IN LGBTQIA2+ Voices Group Wednesdays, time TBD 6/8 - 8/10 Amelia Zique WCP 2.112 (GSC Conference Room) Please note that discussion groups are not therapy groups. All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This weekly discussion group is a supportive summertime drop-in space for queer folk. The group provides a safe and supportive atmosphere in which participants can engage in authentic discussions around their experiences as queer students on the UT campus and in the world. All topics that are relevant to students’ experiences can be discussed, and privacy will be respected. Registration - Not necessary. Participants are not required to participate each week and can drop in for one, some or all group sessions. Click the link below to receive reminder emails about the group. For questions or more information - Contact Amelia Zique. Request Reminder Email DROP-IN Mindfulness Meditation Group Tuesdays, 11:45 a.m. to 12:20 p.m. CST 6/7 - 8/9 (not meeting on 7/5) Geeti Mahajan Virtual Join us for this virtual mindful meditation group, which begins with gentle, mindful movement, followed by guided meditation, and ends with discussion to process the experience and offer support. The group is open to students, faculty and staff with any level of meditation experience. Participants can join the session at any time as late arrivals or early departures are accommodated. Please note, this is not a traditional therapy group, and you do not need to be a CMHC client to enroll. Participants can join at any time during the semester. The facilitator will email you instructions for the Zoom prior to the upcoming session. Be sure to sign up in advance. Registration - Please follow the link below to enter your email address. This will allow the group facilitator to provide you with the Zoom link through which you can access the virtual group at the scheduled day and time. For questions or more information - Contact Geeti Mahajan. Request Zoom Link from Facilitator DROP-IN Drop-in Yoga Group for Members of the UT Community Who Are Black, Indigenous and People of Color (BIPOC) Tuesdays, 2:30 to 4:00 p.m. CST 6/7 - 8/9 Alexandra Okeke-Banks, RYT TBD Please note that discussion groups are not therapy groups. All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This drop-in group is open to all BIPOC students, faculty and staff at UT Austin. Join us in this welcoming space where BIPOC individuals can feel comfortable taking up space while celebrating diversity, building community, and prioritizing their health and wellness through a gentle yoga practice. Registration - Not necessary. Participants are not required to participate each week and can drop in for one, some or all group sessions. Click the link below to receive reminder emails about the group. For questions or more information - Contact Alexandra Okeke-Banks. Request Reminder Email Voices Against Violence (VAV) Groups OPEN Holding Space: A Support Group for Survivors of Interpersonal Trauma Tuesdays, 12:30 to 2 p.m. Hannah Yeo Garza and Joanna Menendez Virtual All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This gender-inclusive group is for all students who identify as survivors of interpersonal trauma, such as sexual assault/abuse, dating/relationship violence, or abuse within their family of origin, and who are seeking connection and support in recovering from trauma. The group will offer ongoing support, facilitate healing, and create a safe and understanding atmosphere to explore the impact of these experiences as students move forward in their own healing. To register or for more information - Interested students are asked to meet with a group facilitator to determine whether a particular group is a good fit for them. To set up a pre-group interview or to get more information, please call CMHC at (512) 471-3515. DROP-IN VAV Support Hour for Survivors of Interpersonal Trauma Mondays, noon to 1 p.m. CST 6/6 - 7/25 Kristen Pearson and Hannah Nazir Virtual Please note that this group is not a formal therapy group. All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This weekly, drop-in, gender identity-inclusive support group is open to all students who identify as survivors of interpersonal trauma. Experiences of interpersonal trauma may include sexual assault, dating/domestic violence, family of origin violence, etc. The group will provide an opportunity for participants to engage in safe and confidential discussions that pertain to their experiences as survivors. Registration - Follow the link below to enter your email address by the evening prior to the group session. This allows the facilitator to provide you with the Zoom link through which you can access the group. For questions or more information - Contact Kristen Pearson or Hannah Nazir Request Zoom Link DROP-IN Yoga for Trauma and Healing Workshop View details on our Wellness Workshops and Events page. Mindful Eating Groups DROP-IN Mindful Eating Support Hour for Students in Eating Disorder Recovery Wednesdays, 1 to 2 p.m. CST 6/8 - 7/27 Joan Long and Hannah Yeo Garza Virtual All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This weekly group is open to all students seeking a supportive recovery community, including those who are currently in treatment, in recovery or have not yet sought treatment for an eating disorder. The group provides a nonjudgmental and confidential environment to explore how eating disorder thoughts and behaviors may impact relationships, coping, academics, etc. Registration - Follow the link below to enter your email address by the evening prior to the group session. This allows the facilitator to provide you with the Zoom link through which you can access the group. For questions or more information - Contact Joan Long or Hannah Yeo Garza. Request Zoom Link Alcohol and Other Drug (AOD) Groups DROP-IN Drop-in Discussion Group for Students with Substance Use Concerns Tuesdays, 3 to 4 p.m. CST 6/7 - 8/2 Tina Alexander Virtual All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This weekly drop-in group is open to all students seeking a supportive recovery community. Students at any stage of the recovery process are welcome to participate, including those with concerns regarding emerging substance misuse, moderation, relapse and maintaining long-term recovery. The group is grounded in harm reduction and provides a non-judgmental and confidential environment to explore how substance use as well as sex, gambling, and/or screen technology may be impacting relationships, coping, academics, and more. We acknowledge that different goals work for different people. Please note this group is drop-in based, and students can attend one, some or all sessions. Feel free to schedule an appointment with the group facilitator to explore whether this group may be a good fit for you. Registration - Follow the link below to enter your email address by the evening prior to the group session. This allows the facilitator to provide you with the Zoom link through which you can access the group. For questions or more information - Contact Tina Alexander. Request Zoom Link Group Services for Graduate and Professional Students DROP-IN Dissertating While Black: Drop-in Support for Black Master’s, Doctoral and Professional Students Thursdays, 3 to 4 p.m. CST 6/9 - 8/11 Danielle Sirles, PhD and Cam Davis, M.S., M.S. Virtual Please note that discussion groups are not therapy groups. All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This drop-in group is for Black graduate students (any level of a master’s, doctoral or professional program) navigating the demands of graduate or professional school while coping with race-related stress. This group is designed to provide a safe, supportive, affirming and confidential environment to discuss experiences and receive support. Topics may include microaggressions, loneliness, burnout, racial battle fatigue, perfectionism, imposter syndrome and intentional self-care among other topics that feel relevant for participants. Active work on a thesis, dissertation or other professional writing is NOT required for participation. Registration – Follow the link below to enter your email address by the evening prior to the group session. This allows the facilitator to provide you with the Zoom link through which you can access the group. For questions or more information - Contact Danielle Sirles. Request Zoom Link OPEN Dissertation Support Group Tuesdays, 2:30 to 4 p.m. CST Mark Zentner and Trevor Waagen Virtual All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This group is for doctoral students who are experiencing difficulties in the dissertation process. Topics that are commonly discussed include work-life balance, interactions with advisors and faculty, job/career decision-making, and motivation/strategies for making concrete progress on their dissertations and other professional activities. The group provides a place for mutual support, accountability, and goal-setting to move through internal and external barriers and move forward with their lives and careers. To register or for more information - Interested students are asked to meet with a group facilitator to determine whether a particular group is a good fit for them. To set up a pre-group interview or to get more information, please call CMHC at (512) 471-3515. DROP-IN In Confidence: A Summer Support Space for Students in the School of Law Thursdays, 1 to 2 p.m. CST 6/9 - 8/11 Maria Timm Virtual Please note that discussion groups are not therapy groups. All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This is an opportunity to process the stresses and triumphs of the past semester and to develop skills, strategies and resilience for the Fall. Feel free to schedule an appointment with Dr. Timm to explore whether the group may be a good fit. This group is drop-in based, and students can attend one, some or all sessions. Registration - Follow the link below to enter your email address by the evening prior to the group session. This allows the facilitator to provide you with the Zoom link through which you can access the group. For questions or more information - Contact Maria Timm. Request Zoom Link Understanding Self and Others Groups OPEN Real Talk: A Processing Space for Women and Non-Binary Students of Color Wednesdays, 1:30 to 3 p.m. CST Renissa Arnold and Kathy Melo Li Virtual All CMHC groups are free and confidential. Real Talk is open to students of color who identify as women or non-binary. This group offers a safe and empowering environment in which members can give and receive supportive feedback while reflecting on the intersection of race and gender. Real Talk also encourages members to courageously practice new, more effective ways of relating to each other and to themselves. Common concerns discussed will include personal growth and self-care, relationships, mental health concerns such as depression and anxiety, culturally specific pressures and expectations, and other concerns that feel relevant to participants. To register or for more information - Interested students are asked to meet with a group facilitator to determine whether a particular group is a good fit for them. To set up a pre-group interview or to get more information, please call CMHC at (512) 471-3515. OPEN Understanding Self and Others: BIPOC Edition (for Students Who Are Black, Indigenous and People of Color) Mondays, 10 to 11:30 a.m. CST Tina Alexander and Joanna Menendez Virtual All CMHC groups are free and confidential. This group offers a safe and empowering environment in which students of color can explore personal concerns and give and receive supportive feedback. Participants are encouraged to courageously practice new, more effective ways of relating to each other and to themselves. Common concerns discussed may include personal growth, self-care, relationships, mental health concerns such as anxiety and depression, culturally specific pressures and expectations, first-generation college student experience and any other topics that feel relevant. To register or for more information - Interested students are asked to meet with a group facilitator to determine whether a particular group is a good fit for them. To set up a pre-group interview or to get more information, please call CMHC at (512) 471-3515. If you don’t see a group that's relevant or helpful to you, submit a suggestion or request to the CMHC Group Coordinator for other groups you’d like to see CMHC offer. Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet