Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Student Mental Health Resources The following is a list of on and off campus mental health resources for UT students. Program Description Available Virtually Counseling and Mental Health Center Serves UT’s diverse campus community by providing high quality, innovative and culturally informed mental health programs and services that enhance and support students’ well-being, academic and life goals. Yes Counseling and Mental Health Center Crisis Line for students Provides telephone crisis support for UT students. Telephone 512-471-CALL (2255) Counseling and Mental Health Center groups and workshops, including COVID-specific support groups Groups and workshops facilitated by licensed mental health professionals. Yes BCCAL – Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line Contact the Behavioral Concerns Advice Line (BCAL) at 512-232-5050 to express concerns about UT faculty, staff, students, and visitors. BCAL is available 24/7 and callers can choose to be anonymous. Telephone or report online BASICS/CASICS (Brief Alcohol Screening and Intervention for College Students & Cannabis Screening and Intervention for College Students) Intervention tool for students who want to examine their drinking or cannabis behavior. Yes Be That One suicide prevention and mental health promotion program Offers workshops and events to promote mental health and teach sucide prevention best practices. Yes BeVocal Provides trainings to faculty, staff and students to encourage intervention in potentially high-risk situations including students in distress. Yes Center for Students in Recovery supportive virtual groups and activities Ongoing supportive meetings and groups for students in recovery. Yes Crisis Text Line Crisis Text Line is free, 24/7 support for those in crisis. Text 741741 from anywhere in the US to text with a trained Crisis Counselor. Crisis Text Line trains volunteers to support people in crisis. Yes Online Resilience Program Consists of four modules presented in audio form, accompanied by Flash animation and short interactive quizzes to promote learning. At the end of each session, participants can print a PDF file that includes a short assignment, reading materials that summarize the module, and a list of suggested books to read. The program is free. Yes Healthyhorns text program 13,000+ subscribers; send health and wellness messages via text. Yes NAMI Central Texas Provides free mental health classes, support groups and resources for individuals living with a mental health condition and for the family, spouses, parents, siblings, and friends who love and support them. Yes National Suicide Prevention Lifeline The Lifeline provides 24/7, free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources for you or your loved ones, and best practices for professionals. Tel. 800-273-8255 No Operation Naloxone (ON) ON is an interprofessional collaboration from faculty and students at The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy, Steve Hicks School of Social Work, and Texas Overdose Naloxone Initiative. Provides overdose prevention and response education to health professionals and the public to combat the opioid crisis using harm reduction strategies. Yes Recovery Ally Trainings This training is designed to reduce stigma toward people with substance use disorders or who are in recovery, and to increase awareness about the millions of individuals living in healthy recovery across the country. You can help make campus a more recovery-friendly place. Yes Recreational Sports Recreational Sports continues to offer ways for the campus community to stay physcially active through a variety of activities, programs and services. Virtual offerings also available. Yes Resources for mental health and COVID-19 compiled by the Hogg Foundation for Mental Health This is a webpage maintained by the Hogg Foundation with links to various mental health resources. Categories include General, Children and Youth, Older Adults, Caregivers, Immediate Response, Clinicians, Webinars & Events. Many of the resources are available virtually. SHIFT Resources during COVID-19 Regardless of if a student is drinking or using substances more or less than before, the resources and articles featured here might aim to assist re: substance use adjustments or coping. Yes Student Emergency Services Helps students and their families during difficult or emergency situations. Assistance includes outreach, advocacy, intervention, support, and referrals to relevant campus and community resources. Check website Student Ombuds Assists students in navigating interpersonal and group conflicts, communication coaching, and university related concerns. Yes Thrive at UT Free phone app to support student mental health. Yes Trans Lifeline Trans Lifeline is a grassroots hotline offering direct emotional and financial support to trans people in crisis - for the trans community, by the trans community. Yes Trevor Project & Lifeline The Trevor Project is the leading national organization providing crisis intervention and suicide prevention services to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer & questioning youth. Yes University Health Services UHS provides medical care and patient education to students at The University of Texas at Austin. Yes UT Outpost Provides food assistance to UT Austin students. Check website for current services. Voices Against Violence prevention programs Offers workshops and discussions about healthy relationships and consent. Yes Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet