Skip to content Location Contact About CMHC MyCMHC Crisis Line 512-471-2255 512-471-3515 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 512-471-3515 Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Campus Location MyCMHC CMHC will be closed for the Memorial Day Holiday on Monday, May 31 and will reopen on June 1 at 8 a.m. The CMHC Crisis Line is always available 24/7 at 512-471-2255. Toggle navigation Help with A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to Someone Now Help a Friend in Distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide Warning Signs Services CMHC’s Brief Assessment and Referral Team (BART) will talk with the student and determine which of these services is the best fit. Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Telehealth Services and Private Telehealth Room Reservations 24/7 Real Time Chat and Phone Support and Virtual Counseling My SSP Psychiatric Services Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Well-Being Resources Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Thrive App Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Confidentiality Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Clearinghouse Abstracts Media and Class Interviews Longhorn Wellness Center Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved Help With A Crisis 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (2255) (UT Students Only) Crisis Services - Talk to someone now Help a friend in distress Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program Suicide warning signs Services Getting Started, Read about the first steps to accessing services at CMHC. My SSP Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Groups and Classes Counselors in Academic Residence Program (CARE) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Services for Survivors of Sexual Assault (VAV program) Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Wellness Workshops and Events Groups Contacts for Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources Thrive App Psychiatric Services and Medication Management Prevention & Self-Care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence - UT's Interpersonal Violence Prevention Program Be That One - UT's Suicide Prevention Program BeVocal - UT's Bystander Intervention Program VAV Theatre for Dialogue Well-Being in Learning Environments Project UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns About CMHC About CMHC Mission and Values Diversity Statement Meet The Staff Charges Service Extension Fee Forms Questions and Answers Medical Withdrawals and Course Load Reductions Media and Class Interviews Virtual Offerings for Groups Request a Presentation Request Materials Peer Education Get Involved The Alcohol and other Drugs Counseling Program CMHC Business Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm Phone: (512) 471-3515 - Student Services Building 5th Floor The Alcohol and Other Drug Counseling Program is a program for students who have questions about their own or someone else’s substance use. We are a multidisciplinary team of professionals dedicated to your physical and emotional well-being. Whether you are just beginning to explore making changes in your use, ready to start making changes, or wanting to continue with changes you have already made, we are here to support you. Our primary purpose is to provide a comprehensive assessment and give you open and honest feedback on your use. Call 512-471-3515. to set up an assessment. What The Alcohol and Other Drug Counseling Program is all about... Assessment & Referral Individual and Group Substance Specific Harm Reduction Treatment Education, Guidance, & Support Outreach & Prevention Assessment & Referral Each student who calls the Counseling Center will be assisted in scheduling an assessment with an AOD clinician. The assessment includes an in-depth look at current and past substance use and an opportunity for the student and AOD clinician to collaborate on how to best meet the needs of the student in a non-judgmental and caring environment. A strength-based approach underlies all the services in the AOD counseling program. Referrals for on-campus and off-campus services could be provided at any time during the assessment process. To begin the assessment process with The Alcohol and Other Drug Counseling program you can make an appointment for within 2 weeks of the first day of classes and at any time during the semester by calling the Counseling and Mental Health Center at 512-471-3515. Individual and Group Substance Specific Harm Reduction Treatment Based on your AOD assessment, you’ll discuss with the AOD clinician potential services that could be a good fit based on your use. You will get personalized treatment recommendations which could include individual harm reduction counseling, group counseling, psychiatric services, and/or an off-campus referral. Should the student participate in the AOD counseling program it is the expectation that each student will have an opportunity to gain critical coping skills, achieve a more positive self-concept, and establish a more healthy relationship with alcohol or drugs which will allow for them to feel more capable of reaching their academic and personal goals. The Motivated to Moderate, Quitters Tobacco Cessation Program and the Creative and Expressive (A.R.T.S.) group are all examples of groups currently offered in the AOD counseling program. Education, Guidance, & Support Each student will be offered an opportunity to gain awareness around the potential harm being caused by their use. Students will also gain support on reducing the potential risks associated with their use. When clinically appropriate, we provide support and guidance to the student and their family to find the most effective treatment options. Your treatment goals are evaluated and revised by the AOD team throughout the semester so treatment recommendations may change at any time. The AOD team also can offer supportive services to students who may have a loved one who is experiencing struggles related to substances. Off-Campus Treatment The Alcohol and Other Drug Counseling Program isn't the best fit for everyone. If, after your assessment, we recognize the need for medical supervision, or that intensive and long-term treatment is the best option for you, we will refer you off-campus for this treatment. We give detailed referrals and offer support for students transitioning to off-campus services. Whether you are joining the Alcohol and Other Drug Counseling Program or you are being referred off-campus, we are here to support you. We'll provide guidance through the assessment and referral processes so that you know exactly what kind of treatment options are available to you and how to access them. Outreach & Prevention The Alcohol and Other Drug Counseling Program provides trainings and presentations about substance use, abuse, and dependence, as well as related topics for the UT community. If you would like to discuss scheduling a training or presentation, please call 512-471-3515. The Longhorn Wellness Center also offers programming around substance use, including BASICS and CASICS. These programs are open to any UT Austin student who is thinking about their substance use and how it might be affecting their personal well-being or academics. There is no prerequisite to sign up. Student Services Bulding (SSB - 0980) 100 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 512-471-3515 Mon - Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. NEED IMMEDIATE HELP? Call 512-471-CALL (2255) ABOUT CMHC About CMHC Meet the Staff Diversity Statement Questions and Answers Charges Get Involved Confidentiality Service Extension Fee Mission and Values Forms Integrated Health Well-being in UT Learning Environments Research Consortium Graduate Training Programs Media Interviews Medical Widthdrawals & Course Load Reductions Austin Travis County Integral Care (56 East Avenue) Clearinghouse Abstracts Make a Gift Crisis Services Talk to Someone Now Helping a Friend in Distress Be That One Suicide Warning Signs Concerned About a Student Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Friends Resources for Parents Prevention and Self-care Longhorn Wellness Center Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Voices Against Violence Be That One Be Vocal Well-Being in Learning UT Body Project Self-Care Activities Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities Student Mental Health Resources Thrive at UT MindBody Labs Common Student Concerns Services 24/7 real time text and chat support Single Session or Short-Term Counseling Psychiatric Services and Medication Management CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence Program) Alcohol and Other Drug Program Mindful Eating Program Voices Against Violence Diversity Counseling and Outreach Specialists Program Integrated Health Program Workshops Groups MindBody Labs Off-Campus Counseling and Mental Health Resources ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin UT Emergency Information Accessibility Privacy Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination Staff Intranet