Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU CMS - Sunflower CMS Guide myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Instructions Select to follow link A - Z Administration Select to follow link Broken Links During Development Footer Google Analytics Login Menus/Navigation Meta Tags for Social Media Organizing Your Site Revert to Previous Version Roles and Workflow Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Site Maintenance Site Settings Social Media URL Redirects User Management Content Types Select to follow link Content Type Overview Content Page Image Collection Image Collection Item Kitchen Sink Landing Page News Person Profile Creating Content Select to follow link Creating Content Overview Accessibility Accordions Blocks Buttons Calendars Captions Contact Page Degrees Fonts Headings and Sub-Headings Hero Images Homepages Links Profile Directories Publishing Pages Sidebars Tables Tabs Unpublish Content URLs Webforms WYSIWYG Editor Developer Select to follow link Bootstrap Custom CSS and Javascript Custom Content Types Modules Views Files and Media Select to follow link Bulk Uploads Documents File Browser Images Videos Sections Select to follow link Sections Overview Section Gallery Select to follow link Section Gallery Overview Body 1 – General Content Body 1 – General Content, pt 2 Body 1 – General Content, pt 3 Body 2 – Headline & Text Body 3 – Pull Quote Body 4 – Card Group Body 5 – Statistic Card Collection Body 6 – Statistic Collection Body 7 – Image/Video Side-by-Side Body 9 - Table Body 10 - Divider Body 11 – Contact Info Body 12 - Accordion Body 13 - Profile Directory Body 14 - Buttons Body 15 – Button Grid Body 16 - Insert Block Body 17 - Insert View Body 18 - News Card Group Body 19 - News and Events Body 20 - Prominent News Body 21 - Wide General Content Body 22 - Headline & Free Text CTA 1 – 1 Button CTA 2 – 1 to 3 Buttons CTA 3 – 1 to 3 Card Carousel CTA 4 – Overlay Image w/Button CTA 5 – 1-2 Buttons w/Link List CTA 6 – Social Media Events 1 – Three Column Events 2 – Three-Column w/Images Events 3 – Two-Column Header - Default Header 1 – Hero Image w/Text Box Header 2 – Headline w/1-2 Images Header 3 – Callout Text Header 4 – Headline & Text Header 5 - Headline w/Image/Video Header 7 – Two-Column Header 8 – Large Image & Intro Header 9 – Hero Image w/Notch Intro Header 10 – News Header Images 1 – Basic Images 2 – Image w/Text Box & Stripe Images 3 – Vertical Image & Text Images 4 – Shadow Image & Text Images 5 – Image Collection Images 6 - Video Images 7 – 2 Images w/Text & Stripe Image 8 - Vertical Image & Free Text List 1 – Link List List 2 – Item List w/Button List 3 – Two-column List List 4 – Image w/List List 5 – Associated Link List List 6 – Alternating Image + Text List List 7 – Thumbnail List List 8 – Image w/Two Lists Header Sections Select to follow link Header Sections Overview Header – Default Header 1 – Hero Image w/Text Box Header 2 – Headline w/1-2 Images Header 3 – Callout Text Header 4 – Headline & Text Header 5 - Headline w/Image/Video Header 7 – Two-Column Header 8 – Large Image & Intro Header 9 – Hero Image w/Notch Intro Header 10 – News Header Body Sections Select to follow link Body Sections Overview Body 1 – General Content Body 2 – Headline & Text Body 3 – Pull Quote Body 4 – Card Group Body 5 – Statistic Card Collection Body 6 – Statistic Collection Body 7 – Image/Video Side-by-Side Body 8 – Qualtrics Form Body 9 - Table Body 10 - Divider Body 11 – Contact Info Body 12 - Accordion Body 13 - Profile Directory Body 14 - Buttons Body 15 – Button Grid Body 16 - Insert Block Body 17 - Insert View Body 18 - News Card Group Body 19 - News and Events Body 20 - Prominent News Body 21 - Wide General Content Body 22 - Headline & Free Text CTA Sections Select to follow link CTA Sections Overview CTA 1 – 1 Button CTA 2 – 1 to 3 Buttons CTA 3 – 1 to 3 Card Carousel CTA 4 – Overlay Image w/Button CTA 5 – 1-2 Buttons w/Link List CTA 6 – Social Media Event Sections Select to follow link Event Sections Overview Events 1 – Three Column Events 2 – Three-Column w/Images Events 3 – Two-Column Image Sections Select to follow link Image Sections Overview Images 1 – Basic Images 2 – Image w/Text Box & Stripe Images 3 – Vertical Image & Text Images 4 – Shadow Image & Text Images 5 – Image Collection Images 6 - Video Images 7 – 2 Images w/Text & Stripe Images 8 - Vertical Image & Free Text List Sections Select to follow link List Sections Overview List 1 – Link List List 2 – Item List w/Button List 3 – Two-column List List 4 – Image w/List List 5 – Associated Link List List 6 – Alternating Image + Text List List 7 – Thumbnail List List 8 – Image w/Two Lists Site Migration Select to follow link Getting Started Timelines Step One: Your Team, Expectations and Timelines Step Two: Purpose and Audience Analysis Step Three: Google Analytics + Site Metrics Step Four: Mapping Your Site Step Five: Learn CMS Sunflower and Planning Your Pages Step Six: Site Content Analysis and Revision Step Seven: Content Review and Approval Step Eight: Building Your New Site Step Nine: Site Reviews, Approval and Launch Templates Select to follow link Templates Overview Template Gallery Select to follow link Template Gallery Overview About Template Gallery Basic Content Template Gallery Basic Content + Template Gallery Contact Template Gallery Lists Template Gallery Marketing Template Gallery News Template Gallery Start About Template Basic Content Template Basic Content+ Template Contact Template Lists Template Marketing Template News Template Start Template Writing for Web Select to follow link Web Writing Web Writing Checklist New Sites Accessibility Select to follow link Ally for Web Resources Select to follow link Web Writing Checklist Common Errors CMS Tips CMS Site Checking Tools Site Approval Recommendations Site Approval Requirements FAQs Policies Select to follow link Video Background Headers within the KU CMS Workshops Help Info for Current KU CMS Sites (Drupal 7) myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU CMS - Sunflower CMS Guide Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Instructions Administration Links Links On This Page Select to show menu items Description How To's Do Not Use Absolute URLs for Internal Pages URLs as Link Titles Broken Links Email Links Phone Numbers File Type Not in Document Link Titles Links to Drupal 7 Non-Descriptive Link Titles Links Open in Same Window Link Titles Link Checking Resources Accessibility Specified Non-Descriptive Link Titles Allowed on Select Sections Support Description Links (a.k.a, Hyperlinks) take users from their current page to another page, site or file (PDF, Word, Excel, etc.). Many of the KU CMS Sections include options for single links and/or lists of links. Links can also be added to pages via the WYSIWYG Editor within Body 1 - General Content > General Content. How To's Adding Links in Sections Links in sections are added within the content form and include two fields: Link URL and Link Text. See the documentation for a specific section for detailed instructions. Adding Links in WYSIWYG Sections Highlight the text you wish to link Select the Link icon in the WYSIWYG toolbar In the Link field start typing to link to another page on your site or paste in a URL or node number NOTE: Do not paste in the full URL of a page on your site To link to an email enter mailto:email@ku.edu To link to a phone number enter tel:+1-XXX-XXX-XXXX To link to a PDF or document select the Open IMCE file browser link. See IMCE File Browser for information and instructions. Leave the ID field blank unless you are setting up an anchor link Leave the Relationship field blank Only if linking to a URL outside of KU select the Open in new window checkbox (see Accessibility below) Enter a title if you want the link to display a title when a user hovers over the link Save Do Not Use Absolute URLs for Internal Pages IMPORTANT: Absolute URLs on a Sunflower development site will break with the site launches Create links using relative URLs for internal pages Relative URLs: /yourpagename or /node/# Absolute URLs will break when the site goes live. Absolute URLs: https://yoursitename.cms-dev.ku.edu/yourpagename Absolute URLs are necessary for external links, but should not be used for internal links. How to Create Relative URLs? Type the page title in the link field and the page will appear in a dropdown menu. Once you select the page from the dropdown menu, Drupal puts in the relative path for you. If you know the specific path (e.g., /yourpagename) or node number (e.g., /node/427) for your page, you can type either of those in manually. URLs as Link Titles Exposed URLs as link titles are not allowed in Sunflower Text must be used for the link title instead Link titles must be descriptive and tell the user succinctly what resource they will find if they follow the link. Exception: Bibliographic Citations Screen readers read the entire URL letter-by-letter. URLs are often quite long and contain information that may be confusing or irrelevant to the user, which is both unpleasant and time consuming. Broken Links Broken Links should not exist on KU websites Broken links damage the user experience and tell users that the information on your site may not be reliable. Your site’s credibility relies on all the information on your site being accurate and up-to-date. Email Links Email links in text should expose the email address bigjay@ku.edu Link URL formatting: mailto:bigjay@ku.edu Buttons that link to email must indicate that the button is an email link In Text In text, email links should be the email address, not the person or department's name. Good Email Link Title: "Contact Big Jay at bigjay@ku.edu." Bad Email Link Title: "Contact our mascot Big Jay." In Buttons and Button-Style Links Recommended link titles for emails in buttons and button-style links: Email Us Email [dept/org name] – Example: Email CMS Guide Email [individual name] – Example: Email Big Jay Email [dept/org title] – Example: Email Program Director Email [individual name, title] – Example: Email Big Jay, Program Director Phone Numbers Phone numbers in Sunflower must be links Phone URL formatting: tel:+1-XXX-XXX-XXXX Add Phone Number Links: Highlight the phone number Copy the phone number to your clipboard Select the link icon in the WYSIWYG options Type "tel:" Paste the number so your link URL reads: "tel:+1-XXX-XXX-XXXX" Add the “+1” in front of the number so the URL path looks like: "tel:+1-XXX-XXX-XXXX" The “+1” is the international dialing format. This ensures that no matter where they are calling from, a user will dial the correct number. Save Support: Google Web Fundamentals: Click to Call File Type Not in Document Link Titles Links to PDFs, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Video or Audio files must include the file type in parenthesis Example PDF document title (pdf) Example PowerPoint document title (.ppt) Example Word document title (.docx) Example video file title (.mov) Example audio file title (.mp3) Reason: If a link does anything other than go to another web page, such as linking to a PDF file or launching an audio or video player, email message, or another application, make sure the link explicitly indicates what will happen. Links to Drupal 7 All pages, images, and documents on your Drupal 7 site must be moved to Sunflower. Once the site goes live the links will break. To avoid broken links and missing content, be sure to manually migrate all image and document resources to your new site. Non-Descriptive Link Titles Link titles must be descriptive - meaning the link title tells users what they will find if they follow the link. Common Examples of Non-descriptive Links Titles Click here Here Read more More info Learn more Visit website Explore Watch on YouTube Incorrect: For more information, click here. Correct: For more information, see KU CMS Guide. Incorrect: See KU Admissions website for more information. Correct: See KU Admissions for more information. Incorrect: Learn more Correct:Our Research Specified Non-Descriptive Link Titles Allowed on Select Sections A feature has been added that makes it possible to use a specified list of approved non-descriptive link titles on select KU Sunflower sections. See Specified Non-Descriptive Link Titles Allowed on Select Sections for details. Links Open in Same Window Links should open in the same window. Strongly Not Recommended: Links to sites outside the ku.edu domain may be set to open in a new window but the behavior must be consistent site-wide. It is a standard user experience (UX) best practice for links to open in the same window to ensure that the user is not confused by unexpected browser behavior. Link Titles Title links so users can scan link text quickly to navigate to the page they're looking for Link titles should allow users accessing your site via a screen reader to navigate your site effectively. Begin links with the information-carrying word, because users often scan through the first word or two of links to compare them. Effective link titles allow search engines to index links and their landing pages correctly, thus improving search engine results (a.k.a., your SEO). Link Checking Resources Because of the large number of links found on most sites, it is time consuming to check them page-by-page. Here are some online tools to help you check the status of links across your website: Link Checkers for Live Sites W3C Link Checker (web-based, nothing to install) LinkChecker (download to desktop, easy to use) Link Checkers for Sites in Development Google Chrome Extension: Broken Link Checker (web-based, you need to add the extension to your Chrome browser - Recommend checking one page at a time with this extension) Accessibility Links should make sense out of context. Phrases such as "Click here," "More," "Click for details," and so on are ambiguous when read out of context. Users must be able to navigate to and select each link using the keyboard alone. Most screen readers say "link" before each link so links do not need to include "link" in the link text, because all users already know that the link is a link. Do not say "link" or "link to" in alt text. Place the distinguishing information of links at the beginning of a link. Links should never be empty. An empty link can be navigated to, but if it does not present any content it can be very confusing for keyboard and screen reader users. Linking to Inaccessible Content on KU Sites All KU CMS sites will be required to address all inaccessible content (PDFs/documents, videos, etc.) during the migration to KU Sunflower. If you discover you are providing a link to inaccessible content on a KU website, including Drupal 7 sites, please reach out to the site owner and kindly request they remediate the document or webpage. Doing so will help the site owner prioritize inaccessible documents and pages that others in the KU community are pointing to. Linking to Inaccessible Content on External Sites KU CMS sites are responsible for the journeys they provide their users. That includes linking to inaccessible PDFs/documents and webpage content on external websites (i.e., outside the ku.edu domain). As a site admin, you should do your due diligence to review any PDFs/documents or webpages you are linking out to for accessibility issues that could impact your users. If you discover you are linking to inaccessible content on a KU website, see “Linking to Inaccessible Content on KU Sites” above. If you discover you are linking to inaccessible content on an external site (i.e., not in the ku.edu domain), here are our recommendations: Unless the linked content is mission-critical, remove all links to inaccessible PDFs/websites. See CMS Guide: Documents for instructions on how to check the accessibility of PDFs. If the linked content is mission-critical, we strongly recommend working to find accessible alternative materials that serve the same purposes and link to those instead. If you have no other options and must continue to host the links to inaccessible PDFs/websites, we strongly encourage you to reach out to the external content owner and ask that they update their PDFs/websites for accessibility. Specified Non-Descriptive Link Titles Allowed on Select Sections A feature has been added that makes it possible to use a specified list of approved non-descriptive link titles on select KU Sunflower sections. See Specified Non-Descriptive Link Titles Allowed on Select Sections for details. Support Links and Hypertext (WebAim) Better Link Labels: 4Ss for Encouraging Clicks (Nielsen/Norman Group) W3C Link Checker (W3C) LinkChecker Opening Links in New Browser Windows and Tabs Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 webservices@ku.edu Accessible KU Information Technology Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.