Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU CMS - Sunflower CMS Guide myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Instructions Select to follow link A - Z Administration Select to follow link Broken Links During Development Footer Google Analytics Login Menus/Navigation Meta Tags for Social Media Organizing Your Site Revert to Previous Version Roles and Workflow Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Site Maintenance Site Settings Social Media URL Redirects User Management Content Types Select to follow link Content Type Overview Content Page Image Collection Image Collection Item Kitchen Sink Landing Page News Person Profile Creating Content Select to follow link Creating Content Overview Accessibility Accordions Blocks Buttons Calendars Captions Contact Page Degrees Fonts Headings and Sub-Headings Hero Images Homepages Links Profile Directories Publishing Pages Sidebars Tables Tabs Unpublish Content URLs Webforms WYSIWYG Editor Developer Select to follow link Bootstrap Custom CSS and Javascript Custom Content Types Modules Views Files and Media Select to follow link Bulk Uploads Documents File Browser Images Videos Sections Select to follow link Sections Overview Section Gallery Select to follow link Section Gallery Overview Body 1 – General Content Body 1 – General Content, pt 2 Body 1 – General Content, pt 3 Body 2 – Headline & Text Body 3 – Pull Quote Body 4 – Card Group Body 5 – Statistic Card Collection Body 6 – Statistic Collection Body 7 – Image/Video Side-by-Side Body 9 - Table Body 10 - Divider Body 11 – Contact Info Body 12 - Accordion Body 13 - Profile Directory Body 14 - Buttons Body 15 – Button Grid Body 16 - Insert Block Body 17 - Insert View Body 18 - News Card Group Body 19 - News and Events Body 20 - Prominent News Body 21 - Wide General Content Body 22 - Headline & Free Text CTA 1 – 1 Button CTA 2 – 1 to 3 Buttons CTA 3 – 1 to 3 Card Carousel CTA 4 – Overlay Image w/Button CTA 5 – 1-2 Buttons w/Link List CTA 6 – Social Media Events 1 – Three Column Events 2 – Three-Column w/Images Events 3 – Two-Column Header - Default Header 1 – Hero Image w/Text Box Header 2 – Headline w/1-2 Images Header 3 – Callout Text Header 4 – Headline & Text Header 5 - Headline w/Image/Video Header 7 – Two-Column Header 8 – Large Image & Intro Header 9 – Hero Image w/Notch Intro Header 10 – News Header Images 1 – Basic Images 2 – Image w/Text Box & Stripe Images 3 – Vertical Image & Text Images 4 – Shadow Image & Text Images 5 – Image Collection Images 6 - Video Images 7 – 2 Images w/Text & Stripe Image 8 - Vertical Image & Free Text List 1 – Link List List 2 – Item List w/Button List 3 – Two-column List List 4 – Image w/List List 5 – Associated Link List List 6 – Alternating Image + Text List List 7 – Thumbnail List List 8 – Image w/Two Lists Header Sections Select to follow link Header Sections Overview Header – Default Header 1 – Hero Image w/Text Box Header 2 – Headline w/1-2 Images Header 3 – Callout Text Header 4 – Headline & Text Header 5 - Headline w/Image/Video Header 7 – Two-Column Header 8 – Large Image & Intro Header 9 – Hero Image w/Notch Intro Header 10 – News Header Body Sections Select to follow link Body Sections Overview Body 1 – General Content Body 2 – Headline & Text Body 3 – Pull Quote Body 4 – Card Group Body 5 – Statistic Card Collection Body 6 – Statistic Collection Body 7 – Image/Video Side-by-Side Body 8 – Qualtrics Form Body 9 - Table Body 10 - Divider Body 11 – Contact Info Body 12 - Accordion Body 13 - Profile Directory Body 14 - Buttons Body 15 – Button Grid Body 16 - Insert Block Body 17 - Insert View Body 18 - News Card Group Body 19 - News and Events Body 20 - Prominent News Body 21 - Wide General Content Body 22 - Headline & Free Text CTA Sections Select to follow link CTA Sections Overview CTA 1 – 1 Button CTA 2 – 1 to 3 Buttons CTA 3 – 1 to 3 Card Carousel CTA 4 – Overlay Image w/Button CTA 5 – 1-2 Buttons w/Link List CTA 6 – Social Media Event Sections Select to follow link Event Sections Overview Events 1 – Three Column Events 2 – Three-Column w/Images Events 3 – Two-Column Image Sections Select to follow link Image Sections Overview Images 1 – Basic Images 2 – Image w/Text Box & Stripe Images 3 – Vertical Image & Text Images 4 – Shadow Image & Text Images 5 – Image Collection Images 6 - Video Images 7 – 2 Images w/Text & Stripe Images 8 - Vertical Image & Free Text List Sections Select to follow link List Sections Overview List 1 – Link List List 2 – Item List w/Button List 3 – Two-column List List 4 – Image w/List List 5 – Associated Link List List 6 – Alternating Image + Text List List 7 – Thumbnail List List 8 – Image w/Two Lists Site Migration Select to follow link Getting Started Timelines Step One: Your Team, Expectations and Timelines Step Two: Purpose and Audience Analysis Step Three: Google Analytics + Site Metrics Step Four: Mapping Your Site Step Five: Learn CMS Sunflower and Planning Your Pages Step Six: Site Content Analysis and Revision Step Seven: Content Review and Approval Step Eight: Building Your New Site Step Nine: Site Reviews, Approval and Launch Templates Select to follow link Templates Overview Template Gallery Select to follow link Template Gallery Overview About Template Gallery Basic Content Template Gallery Basic Content + Template Gallery Contact Template Gallery Lists Template Gallery Marketing Template Gallery News Template Gallery Start About Template Basic Content Template Basic Content+ Template Contact Template Lists Template Marketing Template News Template Start Template Writing for Web Select to follow link Web Writing Web Writing Checklist New Sites Accessibility Select to follow link Ally for Web Resources Select to follow link Web Writing Checklist Common Errors CMS Tips CMS Site Checking Tools Site Approval Recommendations Site Approval Requirements FAQs Policies Select to follow link Video Background Headers within the KU CMS Workshops Help Info for Current KU CMS Sites (Drupal 7) myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU CMS - Sunflower CMS Guide Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Instructions Creating Content Webforms Webforms On This Page Select to show menu items Description Webforms Are Using an Approved Form Service Webforms Collecting Critical Data Collaborators How To's Guidelines and Best Practices Accessibility E-Commerce Forms Other Supported Forms Support Description Webforms are an easy way to collect data and conduct surveys. KU uses the third-party service Qualtrics to integrate webforms into KU CMS websites. Use of Qualtrics Online Surveys via KU licenses is limited to University of Kansas faculty, staff and students for academic and research use only. See KU IT: Qualtrics for information, including guidelines for use. Accessing Qualtrics To access Qualtrics, got to KU Qualtrics and log in with your KU Online ID and password. Webforms Are Using an Approved Form Service Webforms collecting KU data must use Qualtrics, KU qForms, or other approved solution -or- have received an official exception from KU IT Security Office. Webforms Collecting Critical Data Webforms collecting "Critical" data per KU policy have been approved by the KU IT Security Office Please note that Qualtrics webforms cannot be used to collect data classified as "Critical" per KU Data Governance: Data Classifications. For common examples, see the list of commonly inquired about "Critical" data types that cannot be collected via Qualtrics below. Please contact KU web services if you need to collect Critical data per the KU Data Governance: Data Classifications. Commonly Inquired About Critical Data Types That Cannot Be Collected Via Qualtrics: The following is not a comprehensive list, but a small set of examples of data classified as “Critical” commonly requested for data collection. Contact KU web services to inquire about the collection of any data classified as Critical per KU Data Governance: Data Classifications. Social security number (SSN) Grades, grade point average, exams, rosters, financial aid and scholarships info (FERPA-protected) Unofficial transcripts (FERPA-protected) Health information (HIPAA-protected) Credit card/E-commerce data (PCI) Driver’s license number, national ID number, passport/visa numbers (PII) Financial/tax information Collaborators Because Qualtrics forms are created by individuals on their own KU Qualtrics accounts, it is important when you create a new form that you add at least one Qualtrics “collaborator.” In Qualtrics collaborators are others who can make changes and view data. By adding collaborators, you give KU colleagues the ability to work with the form and its data, and you ensure that should you leave the university that form and its data remain accessible and in the control of other responsible parties. We recommend adding at least one collaborator immediately after creating and saving the form for the first time. Request Qualtrics Project Ownership Transfer The individual who created the form is the only one who can add collaborators. In some cases, ownership of an existing Qualtrics project (i.e., form, survey) may need to be transferred from the original owner to another KU employee. To request a Qualtrics survey ownership transfer, complete the KU Qualtrics Support Request Form. Qualtrics User Groups In some instances, it is sufficient to add several collaborators to each form. However, it is also possible to create a Qualtrics User Group that can be added as a collaborator. If your team/department has a lot of forms that need to be accessible to the same set of individuals, you can request a Qualtrics User Group be created. Once a Qualtrics User Group is established, you can simply make the group a collaborator rather than adding individual collaborators. Request a Qualtrics User Group Qualtrics User Groups must be updated by request. They cannot be managed via groups.ku.edu. To request the creation of a Qualtrics User Group, complete the KU Qualtrics Support Request Form. Adding Collaborators Log in to Qualtrics at survey.ku.edu From the All Projects page, locate your form and select the horizontal ellipsis on the far-right column below the gear column header. From the dropdown menu, select Collaborate Type the name of individuals or a Qualtrics User Group into the search field Select that individual or Qualtrics User Group from the dropdown menu Select Add Complete the Collaborate with email notification form to notify the collaborator(s) Select the appropriate permissions from the available columns Save How To's Before adding the embed code for your form to your site, you will need to first create a Qualtrics form. Create a Qualtrics Form Log in to survey.ku.edu On the All Projects page, select Create new project in the upper right Select Create your own > Survey or select from Qualtrics templates Save Add Collaborators, so the form can be accessed by someone other than yourself (see "Collaborators" above) See Qualtrics Creating a Project for information about creating Qualtrics forms. See Qualtrics Support for support information. Embed a Qualtrics Form on a Page After your form is created and finalized, log in to Qualtrics at https://survey.ku.edu. Select Distributions> Anonymous Link. Copy the link. Return to the page on your site where you want to embed the form, in the Body section select Add Body Section, then select Body 8 – Qualtrics Form Embed. Under “Qualtrics Form URL” paste the link from step 2. Select the Style Options tab and select the height of the form that you’d like. (“Medium” is the recommended size, but if your form is long, you might need a larger selection.) Guidelines and Best Practices Use of Qualtrics Online Surveys via KU licenses is limited to University of Kansas faculty, staff and students for academic and research use only. Users must follow all Guidelines for Use. See KU Information Technology's Qualtrics for information, including guidelines for use. Accessibility All webforms hosted on KU CMS sites must be accessible. At this time, only Qualtrics forms can be embedded on your KU CMS Sunflower site. Qualtrics forms have basic accessibility built in. In addition to the built-in accessibility features of Qualtrics forms, we encourage you to use the Qualtrics Accessibility Checker. See Check Survey Accessibility to learn about Qualtrics’ Check Survey Accessibility feature. E-Commerce Forms Qualtrics cannot be used for forms that collect money. See KU E-Commerce for detailed information about collecting money via e-commerce webforms at KU. Other Supported Forms When possible, Qualtrics is the preferred form system. However, there are two additional KU-supported form systems currently approved for use: 1) Microsoft Forms, and 2) KU qForms. Microsoft Forms Like Qualtrics, Microsoft Forms cannot be used to collect data classified as "Critical" per KU Data Governance: Data Classifications. Please contact KU web services if you need to collect “Critical” data per the KU Data Governance: Data Classifications. Microsoft Forms can only be used to collect KU data if they are on the KU tenet, meaning that the form and data were created from a KU Team SharePoint site or from a KU OneDrive account. Microsoft Forms created outside the KU tenet cannot be used to collect KU data. We strongly recommend not creating Microsoft Forms on a personal OneDrive account to avoid complications should that employee go on extended leave or leave the university. Especially if you intend to embed a webform on your KU CMS website, we strongly encourage use of Qualtrics over Microsoft Forms. The KU Sunflower system has been designed to integrate Qualtrics forms, including custom styling for Qualtrics forms so they fit in the KU Sunflower design system. Although Microsoft Forms can be embedded, they will require custom development work to appear integrated on your KU Sunflower site. KU qForms Use of KU qForms requires an account and advanced training. In some cases, KU qForms be used to collect “Critical” data, including e-commerce and PCI data. See KU E-Commerce for detailed information about collecting money via e-commerce webforms at KU. Please contact KU web services if you need to collect “Critical” data per the KU Data Governance: Data Classifications. Support KU Qualtrics Support Request Form Creating a Qualtrics Project (i.e., form/survey) Qualtrics Support Qualtrics XM Basecamp Training Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 webservices@ku.edu Accessible KU Information Technology Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.