Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU CMS - Sunflower CMS Guide myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Instructions Select to follow link A - Z Administration Select to follow link Broken Links During Development Footer Google Analytics Login Menus/Navigation Meta Tags for Social Media Organizing Your Site Revert to Previous Version Roles and Workflow Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Site Maintenance Site Settings Social Media URL Redirects User Management Content Types Select to follow link Content Type Overview Content Page Image Collection Image Collection Item Kitchen Sink Landing Page News Person Profile Creating Content Select to follow link Creating Content Overview Accessibility Accordions Blocks Buttons Calendars Captions Contact Page Degrees Fonts Headings and Sub-Headings Hero Images Homepages Links Profile Directories Publishing Pages Sidebars Tables Tabs Unpublish Content URLs Webforms WYSIWYG Editor Developer Select to follow link Bootstrap Custom CSS and Javascript Custom Content Types Modules Views Files and Media Select to follow link Bulk Uploads Documents File Browser Images Videos Sections Select to follow link Sections Overview Section Gallery Select to follow link Section Gallery Overview Body 1 – General Content Body 1 – General Content, pt 2 Body 1 – General Content, pt 3 Body 2 – Headline & Text Body 3 – Pull Quote Body 4 – Card Group Body 5 – Statistic Card Collection Body 6 – Statistic Collection Body 7 – Image/Video Side-by-Side Body 9 - Table Body 10 - Divider Body 11 – Contact Info Body 12 - Accordion Body 13 - Profile Directory Body 14 - Buttons Body 15 – Button Grid Body 16 - Insert Block Body 17 - Insert View Body 18 - News Card Group Body 19 - News and Events Body 20 - Prominent News Body 21 - Wide General Content Body 22 - Headline & Free Text CTA 1 – 1 Button CTA 2 – 1 to 3 Buttons CTA 3 – 1 to 3 Card Carousel CTA 4 – Overlay Image w/Button CTA 5 – 1-2 Buttons w/Link List CTA 6 – Social Media Events 1 – Three Column Events 2 – Three-Column w/Images Events 3 – Two-Column Header - Default Header 1 – Hero Image w/Text Box Header 2 – Headline w/1-2 Images Header 3 – Callout Text Header 4 – Headline & Text Header 5 - Headline w/Image/Video Header 7 – Two-Column Header 8 – Large Image & Intro Header 9 – Hero Image w/Notch Intro Header 10 – News Header Images 1 – Basic Images 2 – Image w/Text Box & Stripe Images 3 – Vertical Image & Text Images 4 – Shadow Image & Text Images 5 – Image Collection Images 6 - Video Images 7 – 2 Images w/Text & Stripe Image 8 - Vertical Image & Free Text List 1 – Link List List 2 – Item List w/Button List 3 – Two-column List List 4 – Image w/List List 5 – Associated Link List List 6 – Alternating Image + Text List List 7 – Thumbnail List List 8 – Image w/Two Lists Header Sections Select to follow link Header Sections Overview Header – Default Header 1 – Hero Image w/Text Box Header 2 – Headline w/1-2 Images Header 3 – Callout Text Header 4 – Headline & Text Header 5 - Headline w/Image/Video Header 7 – Two-Column Header 8 – Large Image & Intro Header 9 – Hero Image w/Notch Intro Header 10 – News Header Body Sections Select to follow link Body Sections Overview Body 1 – General Content Body 2 – Headline & Text Body 3 – Pull Quote Body 4 – Card Group Body 5 – Statistic Card Collection Body 6 – Statistic Collection Body 7 – Image/Video Side-by-Side Body 8 – Qualtrics Form Body 9 - Table Body 10 - Divider Body 11 – Contact Info Body 12 - Accordion Body 13 - Profile Directory Body 14 - Buttons Body 15 – Button Grid Body 16 - Insert Block Body 17 - Insert View Body 18 - News Card Group Body 19 - News and Events Body 20 - Prominent News Body 21 - Wide General Content Body 22 - Headline & Free Text CTA Sections Select to follow link CTA Sections Overview CTA 1 – 1 Button CTA 2 – 1 to 3 Buttons CTA 3 – 1 to 3 Card Carousel CTA 4 – Overlay Image w/Button CTA 5 – 1-2 Buttons w/Link List CTA 6 – Social Media Event Sections Select to follow link Event Sections Overview Events 1 – Three Column Events 2 – Three-Column w/Images Events 3 – Two-Column Image Sections Select to follow link Image Sections Overview Images 1 – Basic Images 2 – Image w/Text Box & Stripe Images 3 – Vertical Image & Text Images 4 – Shadow Image & Text Images 5 – Image Collection Images 6 - Video Images 7 – 2 Images w/Text & Stripe Images 8 - Vertical Image & Free Text List Sections Select to follow link List Sections Overview List 1 – Link List List 2 – Item List w/Button List 3 – Two-column List List 4 – Image w/List List 5 – Associated Link List List 6 – Alternating Image + Text List List 7 – Thumbnail List List 8 – Image w/Two Lists Site Migration Select to follow link Getting Started Timelines Step One: Your Team, Expectations and Timelines Step Two: Purpose and Audience Analysis Step Three: Google Analytics + Site Metrics Step Four: Mapping Your Site Step Five: Learn CMS Sunflower and Planning Your Pages Step Six: Site Content Analysis and Revision Step Seven: Content Review and Approval Step Eight: Building Your New Site Step Nine: Site Reviews, Approval and Launch Templates Select to follow link Templates Overview Template Gallery Select to follow link Template Gallery Overview About Template Gallery Basic Content Template Gallery Basic Content + Template Gallery Contact Template Gallery Lists Template Gallery Marketing Template Gallery News Template Gallery Start About Template Basic Content Template Basic Content+ Template Contact Template Lists Template Marketing Template News Template Start Template Writing for Web Select to follow link Web Writing Web Writing Checklist New Sites Accessibility Select to follow link Ally for Web Resources Select to follow link Web Writing Checklist Common Errors CMS Tips CMS Site Checking Tools Site Approval Recommendations Site Approval Requirements FAQs Policies Select to follow link Video Background Headers within the KU CMS Workshops Help Info for Current KU CMS Sites (Drupal 7) myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU CMS - Sunflower CMS Guide Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Accessibility Accessibility On This Page Select to show menu items Introduction Alt Text for Images Correct Use of Header Classes Links Tables Focus Lists Color Contrast Color Considerations Accessible Images and Video Accessible Documents and Webforms Linking to Inaccessible Content on KU Sites Linking to Inaccessible Content on External Sites Third-Party Widgets Creating Accessible Content: Remediating PDFs for Web & Communications Specified Non-Descriptive Link Titles Allowed on Select Sections Introduction Web Accessibility As a public institution in the State of Kansas, all KU websites are required to comply with the State of Kansas Web Accessibility Requirements. Please review these guidelines for a complete set of requirements, which include: Compliance with the W3C Web Accessibility Initiative, Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 (priority 1 and 2 checkpoints) Federal Section 508 Guidelines (Subpart B - 1194.22) KU website administrators should ensure that every page on their sites meet the guidelines. If you have questions or concerns, please contact KU Web Services at webservices@ku.edu to request a review of your site. Information and Validators WAVE accessibility check Nielson Norman articles on accessibility All KU Websites must be accessible. Please follow the following guidelines for making your KU CMS website accessible. Alt Text for Images Alt tags provide text to describe images on your web page. When a user of screen reader technology encounters an image, the alt text is what they will hear so it is important to provide an alt tag for all images. Make sure to convey any meaning in the alt tag that the picture would provide for a sighted user. Also avoid redundant wording such as “Picture of” or "Image of” in your alt tags as the screen reader technology will handle that for you. If the image contains text, include that in the alt attribute so the screen reader technology can access and convey it. If your image is a link, do not describe the image but instead use the alt text to describe what will happen when the user clicks the link. See Alternative Text for information, including guidelines and best practices. Correct Use of Header Classes Headings should be used properly to assist screen readers as well as sighted users. There should only be one H1 per page and the rest of the headers ordered logically. Header classes (<h1><h2> etc) should not be used for aesthetics. Header tags are essential for organization and tell users, screen readers and search engines the order of importance of the information on the page. Header classes should be used instead of style elements like font size and bolding. If you want to change the appearance of the headers, use CSS to modify while retaining the header elements themselves. See Headers and Sub-Headers for information, including guidelines and best practices. Links Links should accessible for all users who are not using a mouse so make sure you can both navigate to and activate a link on your page using only the tab and enter keys. When creating your links, it is best to use words that convey briefly but in a meaningful way what the person will get if they click the link. “Click here” or “more” are not terribly meaningful. Also do not use the url as the link text. Screen reader technology will read the entire link if you do this and that can be very annoying depending on the length of your link. Also know that screen reader technology will announce to the user that they are on a link so you do not need to say “link to…” in your link text. If you are using an image as a link, the alternative text for that image should not describe the image but should instead describe what will happen if the person clicks it. See Links for more information, including guidelines and best practices. Tables Tables that are used to present data in a column and row format must be appropriately marked up in the html. Include a caption and column headers when you create your table as shown below. Without the appropriate markup, a screen reader would read the resulting table from left to right and line by line which would not make much sense, particularly in a large data table. With the markup, users of screen readers will hear the information presented in a logical way. If you are using a table strictly for layout purposes and not to present tabular data, do not use the caption, table header, and scope markup described above but do know that the screen reader software will read it as people read a book, left to right and top down. Be aware that your layout might not make sense and consider using CSS rather than table html. See Tables for more information, including guidelines and best practices. Focus Users of screen readers cannot use a mouse to access links and other interactive elements on a web page. Likewise, users with mobility issues may use keyboard commands alone to access those interactive elements. You should ensure that, without using your mouse, you can successfully navigate your webpage and perform all functions including selecting all links. To do this, use only the tab and shift-tab keys to move around the screen and the enter or space bar to activate a link or button. If you are using a Mac, use Safari and enable this preference first: Safari > Preferences > Advanced > Check "Press Tab to highlight each item on a webpage". If you cannot tell what link you are on when you test like this, the focus indicator has probably been deactivated, most likely with CSS. You may need to remove the code that deactivates it or use CSS to provide focus in a more creative way using a:focus. Lists HTML list elements - numbers and bullets - should be used when creating lists on your webpage to assist people using screen reader technology. When creating lists manually, use the bulleted or numbered list feature in the WYSIWYG editor to ensure proper list formatting for screen readers. Color Contrast All elements on your page must have sufficient color contrast to pass WCAG 2.0 guidelines at a level AA. Check color choices by using the WebAIM Color Contrast Checker or another accessibility color checker. Color Considerations Communicate Meaning with More Than Just Color Take into consideration people with colorblindness when choosing images and colors on your website. Make sure that color is not the only means of conveying something (such as “choose the green button to go to the next page”). Accessible Images and Video Accessible Images When adding images and graphics to your site, you must account for users who will be interacting with those assets via screen readers. Alternative text Alternative text (alt text) is required for all images on KU CMS sites. Captions - Use captions to add additional context for screen reader users to understand the value of the image in relation to the content on the page. Image choices - Select high-quality images that allow all users the best opportunity to perceive the content. Accessible Videos Videos hosted on your KU CMS site must meet accessibility standards. See Accessibility KU's Accessible Video for more information, including how to make your video content accessible. Accessible Documents and Webforms Accessible Documents All documents hosted on KU CMS sites must be accessible. This includes PDFs, scanned documents, and Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint files. Accessibile KU provides information and resources to make your online content accessible. To be considered accessible for KU CMS sites, PDFs must have no issues via Adobe Acrobat’s Accessibility Checker tools. This includes issues that are automatically identified by Adobe (e.g., alternative text, tagging, tables, etc.) and the two issues that must be checked manually: 1) Logical reading order; and 2) Color contrast. IMPORTANT: See Documents for extensive information about PDFs/documents on KU CMS sites including instructions for managing and remediating inaccessible PDFs/documents, recommended strategies for common use cases and more. Accessible Webforms All webforms hosted on KU CMS sites must be accessible. Only Qualtrics forms can be embedded on your KU CMS Sunflower site. Qualtrics forms have basic accessibility built in. In addition to the built-in accessibility features of Qualtrics forms, we encourage you to use the Qualtrics Accessibility Checker. See Check Survey Accessibility to learn about Qualtrics’ Check Survey Accessibility feature. Linking to Inaccessible Content on KU Sites All KU CMS sites will be required to address all inaccessible content (PDFs/documents, videos, etc.) during the migration to KU Sunflower. If you discover you are providing a link to inaccessible content on a KU website, including Drupal 7 sites, please reach out to the site owner and kindly request they remediate the document or webpage. Doing so will help the site owner prioritize inaccessible documents and pages that others in the KU community are pointing to. KU CMS Sunflower sites will not be allowed to launch if they provide links to inaccessible content on other KU CMS Sunflower sites. Links to inaccessible content on Drupal 7 sites will not prevent your KU CMS Sunflower site from launching. Linking to Inaccessible Content on External Sites KU CMS sites are responsible for the journeys they provide their users. That includes linking to inaccessible PDFs/documents and webpage content on external websites (i.e., outside the ku.edu domain). As a site admin, you should do your due diligence to review any PDFs/documents or webpages you are linking out to for accessibility issues that could impact your users. If you discover you are linking to inaccessible content on a KU website, see “Linking to Inaccessible Content on KU Sites” above. If you discover you are linking to inaccessible content on an external site (i.e., not in the ku.edu domain), here are our recommendations: Unless the linked content is mission-critical, remove all links to inaccessible PDFs/websites. See CMS Guide: Documents for instructions on how to check the accessibility of PDFs. If the linked content is mission-critical, we strongly recommend working to find accessible alternative materials that serve the same purposes and link to those instead. If you have no other options and must continue to host the links to inaccessible PDFs/websites, we strongly encourage you to reach out to the external content owner and ask that they update their PDFs/websites for accessibility. Third-Party Widgets Third-party widgets of any kind on KU CMS Sunflower sites must first be pass KU IT accessibility testing. This goes for third-party widgets that were previously on Drupal 7 sites as well as any new widgets. Most PDF publishing and flipbook services (e.g., ISSUU) are not accessible for screen readers. To host a document on the KU CMS it must be accessible. The use of inaccessible publishing/flipbook services is not allowed on the KU CMS. You must be able to demonstrate your third-party service meets accessibility requirements before posting a link on your site. IMPORTANT: Social Media Third-Party widgets are not allowed in KU CMS Sunflower. See Social Media for details. Creating Accessible Content: Remediating PDFs for Web & Communications Session recording: You can find the recording for this session and all other past sessions at howto.ku.edu/create-accessible-content. Additional resources and links: CMS Guide Resources: Documents Common Errors Color Contrast Tools: Colour Contrast Analyzer (CCA) Videos: Microsoft: Empower Every Person – Reimagining Accessibility Trailer Contact: uiux@ku.edu LinkedIn Learning Courses: Acrobat DC: Creating Accessible PDFs (2015) Creating Accessible PDFs Advanced Accessible PDFs (2015) Cheatsheets by Application: NCADA Cheatsheets Conferences: InDesign + Accessibility Summit Peer Groups - Troubleshooting/Crowdsourcing: Sunflower Teams Channel PDF Accessibility Facebook Group Specified Non-Descriptive Link Titles Allowed on Select Sections A feature has been added that makes it possible to use a specified list of approved non-descriptive link titles on select KU Sunflower sections. See Specified Non-Descriptive Link Titles Allowed on Select Sections for details. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 webservices@ku.edu Accessible KU Information Technology Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.