Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Process of Care Behavioral Intervention Case Management Victim Support Short-Term Accommodations Give to Newcomb-Tulane Staff Home Process of Care Behavioral Intervention Case Management Crisis & After Hours Support Hospitalization and Post-Hospitalization Support Medical Withdrawal, Leave, & Return Student Privacy and Confidentiality Community Resources Victim Support Sexual Assault Domestic & Dating Violence Stalking Hazing Other Crimes Community Resources Short-Term Accommodations Give to Newcomb-Tulane Staff Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... CASE MANAGEMENT & VICTIM SUPPORT SERVICES - DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS Case Management & Victim Support Services Wherever you are, we are here to help. Case Management and Victim Support Services (CMVSS) is a single resource for any Tulane students in need of support. CMVSS is a great resource to turn to if you have no idea where else to go. No matter how difficult or unique your situation and no matter where you are - We are here to help! Watch this video to learn more about our office. Case Management and Victim Support Services offer problem resolution services, case management services, victim support services, referral services, coordination and follow-up during and after hospitalization and/or medical leave of absence, and crisis management and resolution. Use this link if you suspect you are infected with COVID-19 or have come in contact with someone who is infected. COVID-19 Reporting Form Summer 2022 Walk-in appointments available 9am to 4:30pm Mondays through Fridays. Student Affairs Emergency Aid Request Form Select a CategoryQuick Links Services A-Z Forms A-Z Forms By Office Tulane Resources Community Resources Connect with CMVSS Services Case Management Crisis / After Hours Support Hospitalization / Post-Hospitalization Support Medical Withdrawal & Return Student Privacy / Confidentiality Frequently Asked Questions Victim Support Sexual Assault Domestic Violence Stalking Hazing Other Crimes Resources and FAQ Tulane Resources Community Resources Frequently Asked Questions Forms By Office Student Resources If you have a concern about yourself or any other member of our Tulane community, you can complete a concern report. You may provide your contact information or submit anonymously. Select the link below to submit. Submit a Concern Report Important Note: This submission system is designed to solicit the concerns of members of the Tulane Community, and all reports will be appropriately addressed. It is not designed to address imminent emergencies. If you have an emergency to report, please call Tulane University Police at (504) 865-5911 (Uptown), or (504) 988-5555 (Downtown) or 911. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Case Management and Victim Support Services Phone: (504) 314-2160 Email: srss@tulane.edu Report a Concern: tulane.edu/concerns News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University