Skip to main content College of Natural Resources Menu Close About Directory Contact Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Plan 2021-2026 Reports and Publications Forests and Facilities International History Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online and Continuing Education Hands-On Learning Student Resources Clubs and Organizations Research Centers and Cooperatives Admissions Scholarships Visit Us Request Info Extension and Outreach Professional Services Professional Development Publications Giving What Your Gifts Do Ways to Give Foundation Make a Gift Alumni Update Your Information About About Directory Contact Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Plan 2021-2026 Reports and Publications Forests and Facilities International History Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online and Continuing Education Hands-On Learning Student Resources Clubs and Organizations Research Research Centers and Cooperatives Admissions Admissions Scholarships Visit Us Request Info Extension and Outreach Extension and Outreach Professional Services Professional Development Publications Giving Giving What Your Gifts Do Ways to Give Foundation Make a Gift Alumni Alumni Update Your Information Online and Continuing Education Life is fast-paced and constantly changing. That’s why the College of Natural Resources offers higher education for working professionals through distance education. Take your natural resources career to the next level with flexible graduate courses that fit your schedule. Graduate Certificates We offer four graduate certificates for professionals who want to further their educations. Graduate Certificate in Environmental Assessment Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Science Graduate Certificate in Renewable Energy Assessment and Development Graduate Certificate in Sport and Entertainment Venue Management Master’s Degrees We offer four graduate-level distance education degree programs across our three departments. Professional Master of Parks, Recreation, Tourism and Sport Management Master of Geospatial Information Science and Technology Master of Forest Biomaterials Master of Environmental Assessment For a full listing of current online courses for both undergraduate and graduate students, visit the NC State Online Education website. Undergraduate Certificate We offer a 12-credit-hour certificate that provides students the opportunity to assess and implement renewable energy technologies. Undergraduate Certificate in Renewable Energy Assessment Continuing Education The college’s extension and outreach provides educational opportunities for all students — from grade-school children to retired adults to working professionals. Learn more about their short courses, educational events and other opportunities. NC State Online Education As a leader in experiential education, we provide authentic opportunities for students to put learning into practice and develop personal and career-ready skills. Learn More Online and Continuing Education news NC State Now Offering Online Graduate Certificate in Renewable Energy Development The program consists of four online courses that are designed to give individuals a comprehensive understanding of the clean energy market. Graduation to Vocation: Online Masters Crucial to Career in Tourism Marketing Taira Landavere will use her online masters in her role as director of marketing for a tourism organization. College of Natural Resources Home 2820 Faucette Drive Campus Box 8001 Raleigh, NC 27695 Academic & Student Services: 919.515.6191 General Inquiries: 919.515.2883 Campus Map Apply Give Contact Visit Directory News Events Faculty and Staff Resources About the Site Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.