Skip to main content College of Natural Resources Menu Close About Directory Contact Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Plan 2021-2026 Reports and Publications Forests and Facilities International History Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online and Continuing Education Hands-On Learning Student Resources Clubs and Organizations Research Centers and Cooperatives Admissions Scholarships Visit Us Request Info Extension and Outreach Professional Services Professional Development Publications Giving What Your Gifts Do Ways to Give Foundation Make a Gift Alumni Update Your Information About About Directory Contact Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Plan 2021-2026 Reports and Publications Forests and Facilities International History Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online and Continuing Education Hands-On Learning Student Resources Clubs and Organizations Research Research Centers and Cooperatives Admissions Admissions Scholarships Visit Us Request Info Extension and Outreach Extension and Outreach Professional Services Professional Development Publications Giving Giving What Your Gifts Do Ways to Give Foundation Make a Gift Alumni Alumni Update Your Information Graduation to Vocation Our students are ready to provide real-world solutions to real-world problems. Check out their stories Undergraduate Programs If you have a passion for sustainability and the environment, we have an academic major to match. Learn More Graduate Programs Take your career to the next level as a researcher or manager in higher education, business, industry and government. Learn More Visit Us We offer a variety of virtual and in-person opportunities for you to connect with us and learn more about our college. Learn More #1 Public School in North Carolina for studying natural resources and conservation College Factual #1 Best Value NC State is the best public university for your money in North Carolina Money Magazine Meet the Dean Dr. Myron F. Floyd Dr. Floyd previously served as Department Head of Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management and brings over 35 years of academic experience to the college. Read more Departments Forestry and Environmental Resources Pursue your passion for the environment Learn more Forest Biomaterials Create sustainable products Read more Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management Make our communities stronger Learn more Center for geospatial analytics Visualizing Our World We’re using data-driven spatial modeling and cutting-edge visualization to pioneer solutions to environmental and societal changes. Explore the Center Trailblazer Magazine A bi-annual publication celebrating the latest innovations, scholarships and research at the NC State College of Natural Resources. Read the Latest Issue read our Latest news More News COVID-19 Deepened the Political Divide on Conservation, Study Finds American voters are growing further apart in their attitudes and opinions surrounding conservation, thanks in part to the COVID-19 pandemic. Why Some Fabrics Shed More Microfibers Than Others NC State researchers studied how treating fabrics with dyes, softeners and other chemicals impacts both the production and degradation of cotton microfibers. Study Finds Offshore Wind Could Drive Down Energy Costs in New England An NC State study found offshore wind power could help lower average wholesale electricity prices in New England. Upcoming Events All Events Jun 08 Wednesday8:00 AM Maymester – Last Day of Classes Jun 27 Monday8:00 AM Summer Session 2 – First Day of Classes Jul 29 Friday8:00 AM Summer Session 1 – Last Day of Classes ncstatecnr Recently, more than a dozen NC State students traveled to Austria, the Czech Republic and Germany over a period of 10 ... Open From the @ncstateprtm Ph.D. program to @seagrant_noaa's John A. Knauss Marine Policy Fellowship, recent alumna ... Open Meet #NCState20 graduate Alyssa Stroker. 👋 Alyssa graduated from the college in May 2020 with a bachelor’s degree ... Open Congratulations to Dr. Erin Seekamp, an @ncexttourism specialist and professor in #NCStateCNR, who is the first woman in... Open Our graduates strive to protect nature, whether it be through conservation or in Katie Kolcusky's case, geospatial ... Open We hosted an open house this afternoon for #NCStateCNR’s renovated Natural Resources Library, located on the first ... Open Meet Austin Cross, a new @ncstateprtm graduate and a soon-to-be parks and greenways planning technician with the Town of... Open “A mother’s love is more beautiful than any fresh flower.” —Debasish Mridha Happy Mother's Day to ... Open Wishing all of our #NCState22 #NCStateCNR graduates best of luck in the bright future that lies ahead for each and every... Open Preserve and protect — it’s the motto of many who work in forestry and environmental resources. Asija Rice, a ... Open Brendan Tumpey is a soon-to-be #NCState22 paper science and engineering (@ncstatefb) graduate. After graduation, he is ... Open Meet Lauren McLaughlin, one of our #NCState22 graduates. 👋🎓 Lauren will be graduating this weekend with a... Open Load More College of Natural Resources Home 2820 Faucette Drive Campus Box 8001 Raleigh, NC 27695 Academic & Student Services: 919.515.6191 General Inquiries: 919.515.2883 Campus Map Apply Give Contact Visit Directory News Events Faculty and Staff Resources About the Site Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.