Skip to main content College of Natural Resources Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management Menu Close About People Contact Us Alumni and Giving News Undergraduate Degree Programs Scholarships How to Apply Internships Study Abroad Clubs and Organizations Student Resources Graduate Graduate Programs Online and Continuing Education Application Process Graduate Student Resources Research Areas of Research Faculty Experts Extension and Outreach Professional Development and Services Community Outreach About About People Contact Us Alumni and Giving News Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Scholarships How to Apply Internships Study Abroad Clubs and Organizations Student Resources Graduate Graduate Graduate Programs Online and Continuing Education Application Process Graduate Student Resources Research Research Areas of Research Faculty Experts Extension and Outreach Extension and Outreach Professional Development and Services Community Outreach Transforming Communities The Department of Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management prepares our students to be the next generation of leaders who make our communities stronger through recreation, sport, tourism, events and more. explore our department Undergraduate Our students enjoy close relationships with faculty as they earn a practical education that combines theory and classroom instruction with hands-on experiences and real-world research. Explore our programs Graduate Working side-by-side with world class faculty and industry leaders, our graduate students gain the knowledge to become faculty members, researchers, policymakers and professionals. Learn More Research From sport and society to protected landscapes and sustainable tourism, our research enhances the social, environmental and economic well-being of communities worldwide. Explore our research #1 University in the Nation for advancing sustainable industry, innovation and infrastructure, according to the 2021 Times Higher Education Impact Rankings. Learn More A Leader in Outdoor Recreation The Department of Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management received the National Recreation Resource Leadership Award from the Society of Outdoor Professionals in 2020. Learn More Join the Pack Visit Us Learn about our programs, meet our students, connect with faculty and learn more about your future home in the College of Natural Resources. Meet with our admission team or attend an event today! Connect With Us department News More News COVID-19 Deepened the Political Divide on Conservation, Study Finds American voters are growing further apart in their attitudes and opinions surrounding conservation, thanks in part to the COVID-19 pandemic. Graduation to Vocation: Massey Stichter is Promoting Outdoor Recreation Upon graduation, Stichter will work as an outdoor adventure guide for The Road Less Traveled. Homegrown 2022 Brings PRTM Community Together for Awards and Celebrations A cherished annual tradition, the Alumni & Friends Celebration for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (PRTM) was put on hold during the pandemic, so last week’s gathering… helpful links Meet Our Faculty and Staff Request Admissions Information Find Undergraduate Student Resources Search Jobs in Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management Upcoming Events All Events Jun 08 Wednesday8:00 AM Maymester – Last Day of Classes Jun 27 Monday8:00 AM Summer Session 2 – First Day of Classes Jul 29 Friday8:00 AM Summer Session 1 – Last Day of Classes College of Natural Resources Home 2820 Faucette Drive Campus Box 8001 Raleigh, NC 27695 Academic & Student Services: 919.515.6191 General Inquiries: 919.515.2883 Apply Give Contact Visit News Events Directory Faculty and Staff Resources Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.