Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. Dean’s Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Supporting our People Amplifying Austin & Texas Driving Transformative Experiences Advancing Educational Excellence Leading World-Changing Research Business Services Dean's Office Policies Procedures Departments Contact Us Policies Procedures Human Resources Communications & Events Office of Development Research & Facilities Research Restart Cohort Models Strategic Research Initiatives College Research Policies Research Funding Proposal Submission Resources Proposal Development Resources Research Administrator Resources Faculty Affairs Information Technology Graduate Education Undergraduate Education College Discussion Events Teaching Discovery Day CNS Connect CNS Cooks Recipe Share Lateral Communities Home Dean’s Office Strategic Plan The University of Texas at Austin has set forward its Change Starts Here plan, a 10-year strategy to become the world's highest-impact public research university. Bold leadership from the College of Natural Sciences community will help realize the university's aspiration. Building upon input from CNS students, staff, and faculty over the last months, our existing framework for action and our Committing to Equity plan, the college is ready to lead while fulfilling our mission and delivering on our core values. Inspired by our community, by a spirit of discovery and by a determination to have impact at scale, we will advance people, place and pursuits — through experiences, education and research — here in Texas Science. College of Natural Sciences Mission: To provide an excellent, research-oriented education in science, mathematics and computing that fosters the success of its students, to discover important new knowledge through research and to create an intellectually and scientifically enriched environment that advances a vibrant Texas and beyond. Our Values: Our values are: community, discovery and impact at scale. They are the foundation for our accomplishments today and serve as points of focus for our work moving forward. They shape our actions and how we work together. Along with our university values, they represent our Texas Science culture. For more about these values, please see the 2022 State of the College Address. "We have to get clear on some key values that underpin all of the work if we want to get big things done. ... We succeed when we have community... We stay inspired when we drive after discovery... And we are passionately focused on the impact we have at scale." — Dean David Vanden Bout, State of the College Address, March 2022 Our Plan at a Glance: The College of Natural Sciences — UT Austin’s largest college and home to more top-10 ranked programs than any college at UT Austin— is primed to continue and grow in its role as a transformative leader on campus, nationally and in the world. To develop the college strategic plan and aspirations, we conducted listening sessions, forums and open surveys with Natural Sciences students, faculty, staff and other stakeholders. The information we gathered informed this initial plan for how the college will implement the university's strategic aspiration. Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) priorities are interwoven throughout the college and university plans, and we are working in 2022 on further updating plans around actions and metrics in this area. In the months ahead, we will continue to update and add to the initiatives described here, ensuring we are supporting a new generation of leaders in pursuing answers to societal and scientific problems and bringing benefit to society through the education, research and service of the College of Natural Sciences. Become the world’s highest-impact public research university for science, mathematics and computing – unleashing knowledge, opportunity and innovation from the heart of Texas People An exceptional, diverse community of learners and scholars, leaders and trailblazers Attract and retain outstanding, high-potential students, faculty and staff, advancing our community through thoughtful professional and personal development of individuals that make up our college community. Cultivate a distinctive Texas Science culture of excellence, inclusivity, equity and innovation, prioritizing work to promote belonging and foster exchange. Learn more » Place ...amplifying the unmatched potential of Austin and Texas Embrace and enrich the growth and spirit of Austin and Texas, building symbiotic partnerships across our rapidly growing, tech-driven, capital city, as we work with others to pioneer new models. Throughout and across Texas, where College of Natural Sciences community members live, work and advance discovery, serve through science that enhances life, work, health and learning. Learn more » Pursuits ...and changing the world through transformative… Experiences Propel the individual passions and journeys of our community members, fostering an inclusive college climate, built around experiences of belonging and purpose, so that Longhorns, in this large college, look out for each other and have rich and equitable opportunities to dive deeply into learning and discovery. Deliver excellence in all we do, with outstanding personnel, operations and technology to support us in improving our organizational practices and deepening our understanding both existing strengths and opportunities for improvement. Learn more » Education Partner with learners on new and sustained efforts to catalyze teaching excellence in undergraduate and graduate education. Continue integrating instruction and experience, research and service, as we equip and inspire students for a lifetime of success, leadership and impact through education that responds to our changing world. Learn more » Research Advance ambitious basic research and scholarship, with attention to society's challenges in Energy & Environment, Health & Well-Being, and Technology & Society, as we leverage unique Texas Science strengths and interdisciplinary collaboration. As part of a larger plan to support best-in-class research, build state-of-the-art research infrastructure and support our researchers to foster first-class scientific discovery. Learn more » Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.