Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. News From the College of Natural Sciences Alumni Subscribe to this list via RSS Monday, 04 April 2022 Statistics Professor Layla Parast Aims to Improve Healthcare Using Biostatistics New faculty members in the College of Natural Sciences take on the important roles of mentor and researcher, always pushing the limits of science and inspiring their pupils. This academic year, we gained faculty members whose compelling character and work are worth learning about. Meet new statistics and data science professor, Layla Parast, whose work in biostatistics aims to improve medical treatments and trial outcomes. Tags: Statistics and Data Sciences health & medicine Alumni Faculty profile Monday, 07 March 2022 College & Campus Alumna Earns Top Honor Linked to Stable Isotope Research Marilyn Fogel, an alumna of The University of Texas at Austin, was selected for the Victor Moritz Goldschmidt Award, the highest honor in geochemistry given annually to one scientist by the Geochemical Society. Tags: Alumni Marine Science Botany Saturday, 26 February 2022 College & Campus Wildflower Center Executive Director Selected Lee Clippard at the Wildflower Center. Credit: John W. Clark Lee Clippard has been selected to serve as executive director of the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center, the official botanic garden and arboretum of Texas. Clippard has been interim director since May and previously worked for seven years in Center leadership, serving as deputy director and the head of communications and guest experience. Tags: Alumni Biodiversity Wednesday, 23 February 2022 In the News AI Bests Expert Human Players at Video Game A still from the video game Gran Turismo Sport. Credit: Jamie Wynder /Flickr (CC BY-NC 2.0). An artificial intelligence system made history recently by beating a human world champion in Sony's popular video racing game, Gran Turismo Sport. The technological feat, which made the cover of the journal Nature, involved an AI system designed in part by three University of Texas at Austin computer science Ph.D. alumni and professor Peter Stone. Tags: Artificial Intelligence Computer Science Alumni Wednesday, 23 February 2022 Mathematics Remembering and Celebrating UT Austin’s First Black Math Ph.D.s For decades, the number of Black students pursuing STEM degrees has been increasing nationally, but in the 1960s in UT Austin graduate programs, it was a different story. The small group of African Americans pursuing science and math doctoral degrees then were true trailblazers. This month, the College of Natural Sciences learned of the recent passing of one of them, doctoral mathematician Llayron Clarkson, who was 97. In addition to being an alumnus of The University of Texas at Austin's mathematics Ph.D. program, Clarkson was a former top academic leader at Texas Southern University. Tags: Alumni Mathematics Monday, 20 December 2021 In the News Longhorns Make the Forbes 30 Under 30 List in Science An astrophysicist writer, a new assistant professor and an entrepreneur seeking to address the challenges of aging are among the latest additions to the Forbes 30 Under 30 list with University of Texas at Austin ties. Tags: Physics astronomy Alumni Accolades Neuroscience Wednesday, 09 December 2020 Giving The Hearts and Minds Behind AI Austin tech entrepreneurs and devoted Longhorns Amir and Zaib Husain. Photo: Sloan Breeden “Zaib and I chose to make this gift because we believe artificial intelligence will one day help elevate the human condition.” — Amir Husain At the age of four Amir Husain fell in love with computers — in his words, he "became obsessed" with them. In his teens he began writing to his heroes, computer scientists like Niklaus Wirth, who created the Pascal programming language, and Nicholas Negroponte, a pioneer in the study of how humans interact with computers. They all wrote back. Amir left his home of Lahore, Pakistan to attend The University of Texas at Austin 8,000 miles away, drawn by the work of one of UT's computer science labs. While at UT, he found a kindred spirit in his wife Zaib, who was also from Lahore and a student at the McCombs School of Business. Tags: Computer Science Artificial Intelligence Alumni Wednesday, 09 September 2020 In the News Alumna Lisa Piccirillo Solves Famous 50-year-old Math Problem Image courtesy of Ian MacLellan. During her graduate studies at The University of Texas at Austin, Lisa Piccirillo solved a problem that had bedeviled mathematicians for five decades. Her discovery, published in the Annals of Mathematics, excited the math world and drew coverage from The Boston Globe, The Washington Post, Quanta, Popular Mechanics and more. Tags: Alumni Topology Mathematics Accolades Friday, 07 February 2020 Giving Alum Prem Mahendroo and the Research Bug Prem Mahendroo at home in Arlington. Photos on this page by: Vivian Abagiu, Sloan Breeden, Tara Trujillo-Smith As a young boy, Prem Mahendroo loved to fly kites near the Ganges River in his hometown of Haridwar, India. He has a vivid memory of climbing up the side of his house to free one that had been trapped. A fall could have been deadly, but he was determined to grasp what was just beyond reach. That moment provides a glimpse of Mahendroo's life and work. Throughout his career as a physicist, he reached beyond. He would become a pioneer in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) research and is admired by Nobel Prize winners in the field. Tags: Alumni Neuroscience Physics Tuesday, 14 January 2020 In the News Film Tells Incredible Story of Alum Jim Allison How does a poor kid from tiny Alice, Texas grow up, go to a top research university, patiently pursue a new treatment for cancer that all the experts call crazy, and end up leading a revolution in cancer therapeutics that has already saved countless lives? Oh, and somehow manage to play harmonica with Willie Nelson and win a Nobel Prize too? Tags: Alumni Biology molecular biology cancer Jump to first page Previous Jump to last page Next 1(Current Page) Go to page 2 Go to page 3 Go to page 4 Go to page 5 Go to page 6 Go to page 7 Go to page 8 Read It Now Read our publication, The Texas Scientist, a digest covering the people and groundbreaking discoveries that make the College of Natural Sciences one of the most amazing and significant places on Earth. Video Graduate Students Connect Subscribe Subscribe for E-News » RSS Feed In The News Biology Honors Senior Looks Forward to Practicing Compassionate Health Care in the Rio Grande Valley Biology Honors Senior Looks Forward to Practicing Compassionate Health Care in the Rio Grande Valley Read More Fixing Racial Bias in AI Fixing Racial Bias in AI Read More AI Bests Expert Human Players at Video Game AI Bests Expert Human Players at Video Game Read More Additional News » Explore News by Category » News by Topic » News By Dept Astronomy » Chemistry » Computer Science » Human Ecology » Integrative Biology » Marine Science » Mathematics » Molecular Biosciences » Neuroscience » Physics » Statistics » Contacts Christine Sinatra » Marc Airhart » Esther Robards-Forbes » Steve Franklin » Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.