Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. News From the College of Natural Sciences Class of 2022 Subscribe to this list via RSS Thursday, 19 May 2022 College & Campus Meet the Dean's Honored Graduates of 2022 Each year, the College of Natural Sciences bestows its highest honors for graduating seniors on a select group of students during graduation week. Students across the college are singled out for College of Natural Sciences Distinctions and celebrated at a special Graduates of Distinction event. Among the distinction winners is an even smaller group of students, known as Dean's Honored Graduates. Tags: Class of 2022 Undergraduates Human Ecology Physics Integrative Biology molecular biology Chemistry Nutritional Sciences Human Development & Family Sciences Textiles and Apparel Mathematics astronomy Neuroscience Wednesday, 18 May 2022 College & Campus Student Employee of the Year Helps Community Through Her Research Since her time as a freshman, biochemistry graduating senior Tanvi Ingle was focused on two activities that, at first, seemed unrelated: doing research and helping community members who were experiencing homelessness. When the pandemic caused the clinic where she was volunteering to close temporarily in 2020, she soon found a chance to do both at once. Tags: Undergraduates Class of 2022 Undergraduate Research Biology health & medicine Tuesday, 17 May 2022 In the News Biology Honors Senior Looks Forward to Practicing Compassionate Health Care in the Rio Grande Valley Biology honors senior Brian Chavez is one of a select few in the graduating Class of 2022 that The University of Texas at Austin chosen to highlight this year on UT News and this month's Texas Newsletter. The news team picked students who have made the most of their opportunities at UT and stand ready to create a brighter tomorrow. Tags: Class of 2022 Undergraduates Biology Thursday, 12 May 2022 College & Campus Organization Spearheaded by Graduating Seniors Seeks to Improve Access to Research Marissa Marquez and Samantha Jackson co-founded the new organization, BIPOC. Photo by Kevin Vu. Marissa Marquez and Samantha Jackson met in a neuroscience lab during their junior year, where they studied the neurophysiology of epilepsy and autism. Along the way, they also discovered friendship and passion for getting more students from underrepresented groups involved in STEM research. Tags: Neuroscience Undergraduates Class of 2022 Wednesday, 11 May 2022 College & Campus Graduating Senior David Sarabia Found Passion for Research in FRI David Sarabia served as lead peer mentor for the Supra Sensors stream of the Freshman Research Initiative. He is a 2022 Graduate of Distinction. A first-generation undergraduate student from Mexia, Texas, David Sarabia is among the seniors graduating this month. On his way to receiving his bachelor of science degree in chemistry, Sarabia participated in the Supra Sensors Research stream of the Freshman Research Initiative (FRI) and as an undergraduate researcher in Eric Anslyn's laboratory in the Department of Chemistry. Tags: Freshman Research Initiative Chemistry Undergraduates Undergraduate Research Class of 2022 Friday, 29 April 2022 College & Campus Senior Uses Passion for Health Communication to Create Popular Blog When she first arrived at The University of Texas at Austin, biology senior Tien Nguyen found herself taken aback by the size of the school. As a first-generation college student, she was uncertain about how best to navigate college life and find an outlet for her passions and energy. Tags: Undergraduates Class of 2022 Wednesday, 27 April 2022 College & Campus NSF Awards Graduate Research Fellowships to 22 CNS Students The National Science Foundation (NSF) awards a Graduate Research Fellowship to students who plan on pursuing a research-based master's or Ph.D. program in a STEM-related field. The fellowship is awarded to exceptional individuals and will support them in elevating their research with the goal of furthering advancements that will transform the future. Tags: Class of 2022 molecular biology astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Human Ecology Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Neuroscience Physics Statistics and Data Sciences Graduate Students Undergraduates Tuesday, 09 November 2021 College & Campus First-Gen Student Navigates Own Path, Helps Others Chart Theirs Guillermo Lezama is a physics major at UT Austin. For First-Generation College Celebration Week this week at UT Austin, Amanda Figueroa-Nieves spoke with the senior about his experiences in UTeach, the university's STEM teacher training program. Tags: Class of 2022 Teaching Physics Undergraduates STEM Education Monday, 30 August 2021 College & Campus Natural Sciences Researchers Win President’s Award for Global Learning Members of the "Case for Connections" team in the UT President's Award for Global Learning. Five teams with College of Natural Sciences students were honored this year with the President's Award for Global Learning, which aims to highlight innovative solutions to global problems and give interdisciplinary teams of faculty and students the opportunity to take those projects to international sites. Tags: Neuroscience Nutritional Sciences Human Ecology Human Development & Family Sciences Undergraduate Research Undergraduates Class of 2022 Tuesday, 13 April 2021 Chemistry Neuroscience Two Natural Sciences Undergraduates Selected as Goldwater Scholars Two University of Texas at Austin undergraduate students, Briana Syed and Teddy Hsieh, have earned the prestigious Goldwater Scholarship, which honors outstanding students in STEM majors. Tags: Class of 2022 Chemistry Neuroscience Jump to first page Previous Jump to last page Next 1(Current Page) Go to page 2 Read It Now Read our publication, The Texas Scientist, a digest covering the people and groundbreaking discoveries that make the College of Natural Sciences one of the most amazing and significant places on Earth. Video Graduate Students Connect Subscribe Subscribe for E-News » RSS Feed In The News Biology Honors Senior Looks Forward to Practicing Compassionate Health Care in the Rio Grande Valley Biology Honors Senior Looks Forward to Practicing Compassionate Health Care in the Rio Grande Valley Read More Fixing Racial Bias in AI Fixing Racial Bias in AI Read More AI Bests Expert Human Players at Video Game AI Bests Expert Human Players at Video Game Read More Additional News » Explore News by Category » News by Topic » News By Dept Astronomy » Chemistry » Computer Science » Human Ecology » Integrative Biology » Marine Science » Mathematics » Molecular Biosciences » Neuroscience » Physics » Statistics » Contacts Christine Sinatra » Marc Airhart » Esther Robards-Forbes » Steve Franklin » Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.