Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. About Dean's Office Departments Facts & Rankings Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Human Ecology Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Physics Statistics Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Excellence Awards Hall of Honor Current Recipients Past Recipients History Award Descriptions History Libraries & Collections Maps & Directions Contacts Places of the College Room Reservations Home About Libraries & Collections Libraries Mallet Chemistry Library : (closed for WEL renovation, and pending renovation plans) The Mallet Chemistry Library, located in Welch Hall, serves the chemical reference and research needs for the students, faculty and staff of the Departments of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering. The library's collections covers all areas of chemistry, chemical engineering, biochemistry and food science. The strong historical journal collection includes over 1,000 titles as far back as 1789. The Mallet Library is currently closed during Welch Hall renovations. Life Science Library A beautiful library located in the Main building (Tower), the Life Sciences Library covers the fields of biochemistry, biology, botany, ecology, microbiology, health sciences, pharmacy, pharmaceutics and pharmacology, and zoology. For botany and zoology, the geographical emphasis is on the Western Hemisphere and on tropical and arid areas. Marine Science Library The Marine Science Library is located at the Marine Science Institute in Port Aransas, Texas. It supports the undergraduate and graduate programs of the Department of Marine Science and the research programs of the Institute. The library is a primary source for marine-related information in the state and in the Gulf of Mexico. PMA Library The Kuehne Physics Mathematics Astronomy Library (PMA) serves the physics, mathematics and astronomy information needs of the entire university community. Collections Biodiversity CollectionS The Biodiversity Collections is home to more than 9 million specimens in the disciplines of biology, herpetology, ichthyology, entomology and more. It is also home to the Plant Resources Center, the largest herbarium in the southwestern United States and ranked among the top U.S. university herbaria in the nation. CULTURE COLLECTION OF ALGAE The Culture Collection of Algae includes approximately 3,000 different strains of living algae, representing most major algal taxa. The primary function of collection, named UTEX, is to provide algal cultures to a user community. Cultures in the collection are used for research, teaching, biotechnology development, and various other projects throughout the world. Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.