Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. Students Orientation College Readiness Materials Virtual Presentation & Resources FAQs Support Services CNS Student Services Summer 2022 Registration Info Spring 2022 Registration Info PCL STEM Study Center Non-Academic Advising Student Emergency Funding Mental Health Resources Student Well-Being Faculty-Staff Well-Being Events Future Students Our Philosophy Entering Freshmen Internal Transfers Courses Prior to Acceptance Acceptable Course Substitutions External Transfers Visit Us FAQs & Links Freshman Admission Transfer & CAP Admission Scholarships Honors Programs Applying to Computer Science General Questions about CNS Applying to CNS Admitted Students You've Been Admitted. Now What? CNS Cornerstones College Readiness Meet Your Mentor CNS Intensive Workshops Biology Student Handbook Graduate Students Degrees, Majors & Advising Degrees Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans Majors Advising University Core Curriculum Foreign Culture Requirement Transcripted Certificates Transcripted Minors Policies & Petitions Graduation Ceremony Graduating with Honors Candidate Services Commencement Speakers Honors & Scholarships Research & Experiential Learning Career Services Health Professions Student Communities CNS Cornerstones Working as a UGTA Contacts Student Services Main Desk 512-471-4536 WCH 1.106 Virtual hours, M-F, 8:30 – 4:30pm Click here to enter via Zoom Email Home Students Degrees, Majors & Advising Graduation Graduation Ceremonies The College of Natural Sciences holds commencement ceremonies each May to honor the graduates and candidates of the entire academic year (past Fall, current Spring, and future Summer). May 2022 participants included December 2021 graduates and May 2022 and August 2022 potential graduates. Attendance at the graduation ceremonies is optional. Ceremonies are organized by degree/major field of study: Undergraduate ceremonies: Date: Saturday, May 21, 2022 Location: Frank Erwin Center** ***Ceremonies were live-streamed on YouTube: https://youtu.be/KptQrXwV_0o *** 8 a.m.: Biochemistry, Biology, Environmental Science, Medical Laboratory Science, Neuroscience 12 p.m. (noon): Astronomy, Chemistry, Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics 3:30 p.m.: Human Development and Family Sciences, Human Ecology, Nutrition, Public Health, Textiles and Apparel Participation in a college ceremony is not mandatory. You do not need to inform us as to whether you plan to attend or not. Students earning multiple degrees from Natural Sciences will have each degree acknowledged at the ceremony they choose to attend. The college anticipates that the ceremony will last approximately 2 to 2.5 hours. Out of respect for all graduates, please plan to be present until the end of the ceremony. Do I Need a Ticket? The Frank Erwin Center is sufficiently large that graduation candidates and audience members do not need tickets to attend college ceremonies. Graduates may invite as many friends and family as they wish. If you plan to attend the 7:30 p.m. university-wide ceremony, learn more about ticketing on the UT event site. Procedures at the frank erwin center Doors will open at 6:45 am for the 8:00 am ceremony and one hour prior to the start of the noon and 3:30 pm ceremonies: There are lane closures and construction in the area, please allow plenty of time to park, and walk to the Frank Erwin Center. Graduation candidates may enter the Frank Erwin Center at the Red River Street entrance. Candidates must be checked in no later than 40 minutes prior to the start of the ceremony. Guests with mobility impairments may enter at the Arena C and D entrances, or at the Red River Street entrance. Arena C and D entrances are closest to the drop off location in Lot 118 (see Mobility impaired Drop Off for more information). Other guests may enter any arena-level entrance on the north and south sides of the Erwin Center. Students are lined up backstage by degree. However, neither the degrees, nor the candidates, are in alpha order. This is due to the variance in the number of students graduating by major and the need to seat graduation candidates in sections without running out of seats. The college appreciates your patience with this process. The university has safety procedures in place for all commencement ceremonies and venues. Backpacks, tote bags, or any bags larger than 12 inches in any dimension will not be allowed into the venue. In addition, all other bags, including purses, camerca cases, and diaper bags, may be searched by security officers before visitors are permitted to enter the venue. Walk-through metal detectors are now located at every arena entrance. In order to increase the efficiency of this process, guests should minimize the number of personal items they bring and remove any items that may trigger the alarm before walking through the detectors. If an alarm sounds, the guest will be subject to a secondary screening. We strongly urge all graduates and guests not to bring bags to any ceremony unless they are absolutely necessary. Those visitors bringing small bags should expect delays in order to enter the venue, and those with prohibited large bags will be turned away. Please plan accordingly. Do not bring any packages that cannot be opened or inspected. Bachelor Graduation Candidates (students who have not yet earned their diplomas) Approval of your graduation application consitutes approval to participate in the graduation ceremony. There is no need to apply to walk. If you have not yet applied to graduate, please do so now. Bachelor Walker Applicants (alumni who received their diplomas in Fall 2021 or students who expect to earn their diplomas in August 2022) August 2022 candidates are defined as students who will lack 15 hours or less after completing their spring coursework. Required Regalia and optional invitations Academic regalia is required for all ceremony participants. Bachelor regalia may be purchased from the University Co-op. The tassel color for BA and BS graduates in the College of Natural Sciences is gold/yellow. Bachelor's regalia should be ordered by the published deadline on the University Co-Op site. Formal invitations to send to family and friends may also be purchased from the University Co-op. what will be announced during the ceremony As participants walk across the stage, the college will announce student first and last names, additional degrees if earned from Natural Sciences, preliminary university honors, and preliminary departmental honors. Preliminary university honors announcements will be based upon grade point average ranges determined for the Spring 2022 graduating class, using grade point averages that do not include Spring 2022 grades. After the ceremony, the May 2022 university honors ranges will be recalculated and newly calculated grade point averages including Spring 2022 grades will be used to award university honors to students who are certified for graduation by the Dean's Office. University honors is included on official diplomas issued by the Office of the Registrar. In the interest of ensuring that the ceremonies average approximately 2 hours, the college does not announce certificates, minors, or degrees earned from other UT colleges. Parking For the latest updates to campus parking, please visit the university Commencement Weekend Parking page. Mobility impaired drop off and seating at ceremony Lot 118: Drop-off at the north end of the building near the flag poles, accessible from either the I-35 feeder road. Proceed to the Arena Entrance C (near the North Box Office). Mobility impaired candidates or guests who cannot walk comfortably more than 5 feet are advised to bring wheelchairs to the event. Local health supply rental companies can also provide rental wheelchairs. The Erwin Center has a very limited number of wheelchairs on hand at Arena entrances C and D, and the Red River entrance, to assist guests to seating. Red River is closed between Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. and 15th Street; alert traffic control officers that you are dropping off a mobility impaired guest for access to the Red River entrance. The Erwin Center staff requests that only a few family members accompany mobility impaired guests who are dropped off at the Red River entrance. This is the same entrance used by graduation candidates, and can get quite congested. Family members can meet with each other on the concourse level. Only graduation candidates and families of the Dean's Honored Graduates are seated on the arena floor. Mobility impaired seating is at the top of the first balcony and the bottom of the second balcony. There is seating for family members below on the first balcony and above on the second balcony. Most mobility impaired guests choose to sit at the top of the first balcony (off the concourse) rather than the highest level. accommodation at the ceremony Accomodation requests for graduates or their guests should be made at least five business days prior to commencement activities. While every effort will be made,we may be unable to fulfill last-minute requests. Please address accommodation requests to ns.student.records@austin.utexas.edu . Personal Items Graduates should not bring personal items such as purses or coats to the ceremony. There is no secure area in which to leave them. We recommend carrying cell phones and keys on wrist bands or in clothing with pockets. Professional Photographs The University coordinates professional photos of each graduation candidate as he or she walks across the stage to be congratulated during CNS ceremonies. Graduates and families have the option of purchasing photographs. There is no obligation to do so. Flash Photography provides free color proofs to each graduate. Proofs are mailed to the permanent address within two weeks of graduation. If you do not receive your proof, or if you wish to place your order by phone or email, please contact Flash Photography at 1-800-410-8070 or at http://www.flashphotography.com/. UNIVERSITy-wide ceremony information The University-wide ceremony will be held May 21, 2022 at 7:30 pm at Darrell K Royal-Texas Memorial Stadium. Procession tickets are required for degree candidates to participate and for guests attending the University wide ceremony. More information about tickets may be found here. The college graduation ceremonies provide an occasion for recognizing degree candidates individually as they cross the stage while their name is announced. The university-wide commencement ceremony takes place following the college ceremonies and is the culmination of Commencement weekend. Degree candidates from every college and school are eligible to participate. At this ceremony, students are recognized with others from their college as a group rather than individually. The ceremony includes a distinguished speaker, conferring of degrees by the president and the traditional lighting of the Tower in orange to honor graduates. The celebration concludes with a fireworks display. College of Natural Sciences graduates who wish to participate in the university-wide commencement ceremony must arrive no later than 6:45 p.m. and should enter the stadium through GATE 25: (located on the northeast corner of the stadium near the intersection of Deloss Dodds Way and Robert Dedman Drive). Sign up for Nixle texts to receive important updates about the University Commencement starting Thursday, May 19: Text UTGRAD22 to 888-777. Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.