Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. Staff Staff Directory Dean's Office Staff Staff Committee Staff Celebration & Nominations Staff Award Recipients Home Staff Staff Celebration & Nominations This year's Staff Celebration will be held on June 23, 2022. Staff Excellence Awards nominations are open through May 20, 2022. Staff Excellence Award Nominations CNS Staff excellence awards recognize members of our community who go above and beyond the day-to-day responsibilities of their job with outstanding dedication, competence, resourcefulness and customer service. Award recipients are selected based on: Significant Impact: Award recipients have made significant, positive impacts on the college community and/or the teaching, research and service missions of the university. Commitment to Excellence: Award recipients are considered leaders in their respective work domains based on exceptional, high-quality standards of their professional contributions to campus. Embodied College Values: Award recipients contribute to and uphold the college values of community, discovery and impact at scale. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: In alignment with the CNS Diversity Statement, award recipients help make campus a more equitable and inclusive place of learning and discovery for students, faculty and staff of all backgrounds. The staff excellence award nomination process will be open through May 20, 2022. Eligibility: All staff (including administrative, professional and classified) with at least two years of consecutive service in CNS (as of January 1, 2022) who have not received a CNS staff award in the past 5 years. Nomination Process Nominatons should be submitted online. To present the strongest nomination possible, we encourage: A single nomination per employee One page letters of support (max of 3) which can be emailed to this email address. Letters of support should be attached documents (not text in the body of an email). Attached files should be titled with both the last name of the nominee and the last name of the nominator (ex: Reyes nombinated by Lewis). Nominate staff for our awards » Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.