Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. Students Orientation College Readiness Materials Virtual Presentation & Resources FAQs Support Services CNS Student Services Summer 2022 Registration Info Spring 2022 Registration Info PCL STEM Study Center Non-Academic Advising Student Emergency Funding Mental Health Resources Student Well-Being Faculty-Staff Well-Being Events Future Students Our Philosophy Entering Freshmen Internal Transfers Courses Prior to Acceptance Acceptable Course Substitutions External Transfers Visit Us FAQs & Links Freshman Admission Transfer & CAP Admission Scholarships Honors Programs Applying to Computer Science General Questions about CNS Applying to CNS Admitted Students You've Been Admitted. Now What? CNS Cornerstones College Readiness Meet Your Mentor CNS Intensive Workshops Biology Student Handbook Graduate Students Degrees, Majors & Advising Degrees Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans Majors Advising University Core Curriculum Foreign Culture Requirement Transcripted Certificates Transcripted Minors Policies & Petitions Graduation Ceremony Graduating with Honors Candidate Services Commencement Speakers Honors & Scholarships Research & Experiential Learning Career Services Health Professions Student Communities CNS Cornerstones Working as a UGTA Contacts Student Services Main Desk 512-471-4536 WCH 1.106 Virtual hours, M-F, 8:30 – 4:30pm Click here to enter via Zoom Email Home Students Support Services Students Advising Support Services Within the College and throughout the University there are a number of supports to aid students in dealing with a variety of challenges they may be facing in their life here on campus. Personal Wellness Mental, physical and emotional wellness is of paramount importance for the health of your personal and academic lives. Counseling and Mental Health Center (CMHC) - provides counseling, psychiatric, consultation, and prevention services that facilitate students' academic and life goals and enhance their personal growth and well-being. CARE Counselors – Offer short-term counseling and mental health consultation, workshops and outreach, and assistance in connecting to resources on and off campus in an accessible academic setting. CNS has two CARE counselors you may contact with concerns or to schedule an appointment: Nic Dahlberg at (512) 232-9247 Damaris Rodriguez at (512) 471-7162 The CARE counselor office is W.C. Hogg 2.224 Non-Academic Counselors – Different from mental health counselors, the CNS Non-Academic Counselors help students navigate when life events and academics collide. Be sure to speak with them at the beginning of the crisis if possible to start the documentation trail if it's needed. Call the WCH Advising desk at (512) 471-4536 to set up an appointment, or talk to your academic advisor. CMHC Crisis Line is available 24/7 at 512-471-2255 CMHC Groups, Classes, & Workshops – Free groups, classes, and workshops that facilitate self-improvement and the alleviation of suffering. Topics: tobacco cessation, mindful eating, coping with anxiety, dissertation support and more. MindBody Labs – Learn how to improve your emotional and physical health with relaxation techniques, meditation, guided imagery and more. Safety and Emergency Support Behavior Concerns Advice Line (BCAL) - Worried about a student in your class, bothered that your roommate has been acting differently, or concerned about the behavior of a co-worker? Do you have concerns but are not sure what to do? Contact BCAL. Student Emergency Fund – Provides limited emergency financial support to currently enrolled students who are unable to meet essential expenses due to a temporary or unexpected hardship. Student Emergency Services – Helps students and their families during difficult or emergency situations. Assistance includes outreach, advocacy, intervention, support, and referrals to relevant campus and community resources. Voices Against Violence – Provides support and empowerment to survivors of interpersonal violence. Offers comprehensive violence prevention and response programs. ACADEMIC HELP PCL STEM Study Center – offers space, time, and support for meeting, studying and collaborating. Free tutoring is available. Sanger Learning Center – UT Austin’s main resource for academic support. Free tutoring, help with study skills, help with public speaking and more are available. University Writing Center – Provides one-on-one consultations for student writers. Calculus Lab - The Mathematics Department is offering students enrolled in calculus courses at UT the chance to receive help and work with classmates in a room that's open five days a week for the afternoon and evening. The lab will be staffed by current mathematics graduate students (including your calculus TA), as well as advanced undergraduate Learning Assistants. Diversity, Identity, Inclusivity, & Equity Diversity Coordinators – Clinicians who have specialized interests, training, knowledge, etc. for serving different populations. Provide outreach and mental health support for different communities on campus. Gender and Sexuality Center – Provides opportunities for all members of UT Austin to explore, organize, and promote learning around issues of gender and sexuality. Map and list of Gender Inclusive Restroom Locations Multicultural Engagement Center – Provides diverse educational opportunities and support services for students. Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) – Determines eligibility and helps implement reasonable accommodations for students with disabilities. Provides outreach across campus to create a more inclusive, accessible and welcoming environment. Voices Groups – Identity-based (Asian American, Black, International, Latinx, LGBTQ, Women of Color) drop-in discussion groups located on campus. Groups are free, confidential and no appointment is necessary. The Longhorn TIES (Transition, Inclusion, Empower, Success) initiative seeks to enhance the student experience for students who identify as being on the autism spectrum or who have other related conditions through advocacy, connections and training starting with the new student orientation process and continuing throughout the student’s academic career. Academic Integrity Issues and Grievances Academic Integrity issues: Assistant Dean Anneke Chy Ombudsperson – Staffed by students, this office assists students in resolving problems, complaints, and concerns. The office operates independently of administrative authorities. Incidents of sex discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual violence and sexual misconduct are to be reported to the Title IX office. New information about SB 212 and how it impacts students: https://titleix.utexas.edu/sb212. Dean of Students – Upholds the university's standards of student conduct and academic integrity through a fair and objective process For grievance questions, please always begin by working with your instructor, then the department chair, and Associate Dean David Vanden Bout. Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.