Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. Alumni & Friends Stay Connected Alumni Resources Get Involved Alumni & Friends Awards Support and Give Meet the Advisory Council Parent Connection Parents Connect Events Support and Give Helpful Links Get in Touch Office of Development College of Natural Sciences 120 Inner Campus Dr., Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712-1252 512-232-1041 Email Home Alumni & Friends TIDES Alumni and friends of the College of Natural Sciences form a global network of volunteers, donors and advocates numbering more than 65,000. Many of you have brought prestige and honor to the college through lasting contributions and successes. You inspire our students every day and serve as our best ambassadors to the world. We invite you to stay connected, wherever you may be, by reading up on college news, updating your contact information or making an investment in CNS. Here are five ways you can get the most of our alumni community: Stay connected by keeping your contact information current. Sign up to receive our monthly e-Newsletter. Join the conversation on Facebook and LinkedIn. Job search with career resources through RecruitUT. Don’t forget to wear burnt orange! Discovery is at the core of all that we do in the College of Natural Sciences and as alumni you continue to promote this ideal while pursuing your career and life goals. Please stay involved with the college and don’t forget to share your success and accomplishments with us! Subscribe for E-News » Alumni Stories Professor Layla Parast Aims to Improve Healthcare Using Biostatistics Professor Layla Parast Aims to Improve Healthcare Using Biostatistics Alumna Earns Top Honor Linked to Stable Isotope Research Alumna Earns Top Honor Linked to Stable Isotope Research Additional News » Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.