Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. Dean’s Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Supporting our People Amplifying Austin & Texas Driving Transformative Experiences Advancing Educational Excellence Leading World-Changing Research Business Services Dean's Office Policies Procedures Departments Contact Us Policies Procedures Human Resources Communications & Events Office of Development Research & Facilities Research Restart Cohort Models Strategic Research Initiatives College Research Policies Research Funding Proposal Submission Resources Proposal Development Resources Research Administrator Resources Faculty Affairs Information Technology Graduate Education Undergraduate Education College Discussion Events Teaching Discovery Day CNS Connect CNS Cooks Recipe Share Lateral Communities Home Dean’s Office Research & Facilities CNS Research Restart This page contains information for faculty and other researchers about UT's and CNS's multi-level approach to increasing research operations during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Office of the Vice President for Research announced the move to Research Level 0 on July 5, 2021. There are no workforce density limitations or restrictions on types of research conducted. Please keep a few things in mind as your labs and research spaces return to full occupancy: You must continue to maintain room and lab sign-in sheets, either digital or printed, for contact tracing purposes. Notify the Occupational Health Program (OHP) if you or someone on your team has symptoms of COVID-19 or is tested for COVID-19. Square footage social distancing is no longer required. Follow campus meeting and event guidelines. Domestic research travel no longer requires exceptions by deans or vice presidents. International travel is still prohibited unless exception is granted. Refer to campus travel guidelines for more information. Masks are optional inside university buildings and outdoors but are still recommended for those who are not fully vaccinated or who have weakened immune systems. As of Tuesday, June 1st, undergraduate researchers are no longer required to submit to proactive community testing (PCT) every two weeks as a condition of working in PIs’ research spaces. Protect Texas Together Protect Texas Together With the launch of the Protect Texas Together App for students, faculty and staff (available to download here), the CNS daily health attestation survey has been retired. The Protect Texas Together app is designed to help individuals track their symptoms each day and — based on those symptoms — indicate whether they are cleared to come to campus. While completely voluntary, use of the app is strongly encouraged for anyone coming to campus. Here’s some information about how the Protect Texas Together App works: Users can track their symptoms each day with the app, which can provide a daily campus pass for those without any major COVID-19 symptoms. If the app’s algorithm determines that an individual may have COVID-19 based on the symptoms that person selected, the app will decline to provide a pass and instead direct the user to contact either University Health Services or UT Health Austin for guidance or testing. Faculty and staff members can also go to the provider of their choice. Beyond daily symptom screening, the app allows users to easily and quickly log in and out of campus rooms (for contact tracing purposes), access local COVID-19 information and resources and connect their EID to a proactive community test ID, should they volunteer for asymptomatic testing. The Room Check-In and History function will be used for contact tracing purposes in case there is an outbreak in your building, and we urge you and your staff to use it throughout the day. This is especially important for the common spaces shared among different labs (core facilities, instrument rooms, stockrooms, etc.). For those without a smartphone, a phone-based survey application is also available by dialing 800-325-8903. This uses the same algorithm as the app to indicate whether a person is safe to come to campus, but works on any phone. The phone-based survey requires a unique access code, which is available here. Those without internet access or in need of further assistance should call the UT Service Desk at 512-475-9400 Campus visitors without EIDs can use this symptom-monitoring app developed by the CDC if they wish. community. PROTECT TEXAS TOGETHER » Links and Resources PI Research Restart Toolkit Policies, best practices, and a checklist for resuming research operations in your lab. UT Research Restart Plan and Phases Current Level: 0. Normal, full-capacity research activity has resumed on site. Research Restart FAQs Answers to frequently asked questions regarding research restart. Lab Sign-in Sheet Template Sign-in template to capture critical information for contact tracing VPR Research Restart Visit VPR's Research Restart page for more information and resources. Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.