Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. Students Orientation College Readiness Materials Virtual Presentation & Resources FAQs Support Services CNS Student Services Summer 2022 Registration Info Spring 2022 Registration Info PCL STEM Study Center Non-Academic Advising Student Emergency Funding Mental Health Resources Student Well-Being Faculty-Staff Well-Being Events Future Students Our Philosophy Entering Freshmen Internal Transfers Courses Prior to Acceptance Acceptable Course Substitutions External Transfers Visit Us FAQs & Links Freshman Admission Transfer & CAP Admission Scholarships Honors Programs Applying to Computer Science General Questions about CNS Applying to CNS Admitted Students You've Been Admitted. Now What? CNS Cornerstones College Readiness Meet Your Mentor CNS Intensive Workshops Biology Student Handbook Graduate Students Degrees, Majors & Advising Degrees Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans Majors Advising University Core Curriculum Foreign Culture Requirement Transcripted Certificates Transcripted Minors Policies & Petitions Graduation Ceremony Graduating with Honors Candidate Services Commencement Speakers Honors & Scholarships Research & Experiential Learning Career Services Health Professions Student Communities CNS Cornerstones Working as a UGTA Contacts Student Services Main Desk 512-471-4536 WCH 1.106 Virtual hours, M-F, 8:30 – 4:30pm Click here to enter via Zoom Email Home Students Degrees, Majors & Advising Graduation in the College of Natural Sciences The College of Natural Sciences awards degrees three times in the academic year: December, May, and August. A student must apply to graduate in the semester they intend to complete their degree requirements. The College of Natural Sciences holds commencement events once a year, in May. What do i need to apply to graduate? 1. Review your Degree Audit before applying to graduate. You must apply for any and all certificates or minors you intend to earn. Please ensure that you have done so before applying to graduate. 2. Contact your advisor if you have questions after running your audit and before applying to graduate. You will be asked to indicate how remaining degree requirements will be satisfied in the application. 3. Complete a Graduation Application The Spring 2022 Graduation Application will close on May 6, 2022. When your graduation application is approved, you are automatically eligible to participate in the CNS graduation ceremony. a. If you are not enrolled in residence at UT Austin in the semester you apply to graduate, you must complete and return the in absentia registration form, in addition to the online application. The in absentia registration form is embedded in the online graduation application and is available to download for 24 hours. If the 24 hour period lapses, contact ns.student.records@austin.utexas.edu to request the in absentia registration form. Note that the Office of the Registrar will not register a student who has a financial or other hold (bar) on their record. Please check your Registration Information Sheet and clear any bars before you submit your in absentia registration form. Please check your Registration Information Sheet and clear bars before you submit your in absentia registration form. b. If you are enrolled in at least six (6), but fewer than twelve (12), hours you may request full-time status for part-time enrollment by noting the request in the Student Remarks box in the online graduation application. c. If you don't see your certificate or minor in the drop down menu, enter the information in the Student Remarks box. e. If you have any questions, contact Student Records at ns.student.records@austin.utexas.edu 4. Complete the College of Natural Sciences Graduation Survey (a link will be emailed to you late in the semester). 5. Determine whether you may be eligible for the Tuition Rebate program. You may submit an Application for Tuition Rebate during the semester in which you complete your degree requirements (earn a degree). The deadline for Natural Sciences to receive your Application for Tuition Rebate for Spring 2022 is May 6, 2022. Factoid: A diploma contains the title of a degree earned. Some degree titles include the field of study, such as a Bachelor of Science in Chemistry. Other degree titles, such as Bachelor of Science and Arts, do not include the field of study. What do I need to apply to walk? A student may only apply to "walk" during a spring semester. You may apply to "walk" during a spring semester if: You are NOT applying to graduate, OR You received a degree from CNS in the previous fall semester (Fall 2021), OR You currently have fifteen (15) hours or fewer needed to complete your degree requirements. Note that if you have already graduated, your degree information will be blank. This is not in error. CNS will enter this information when processing your application. 1. Review your Degree Audit before applying to walk. If you have not yet graduated, you must have fifteen (15) hours or fewer hours needed to complete your degree. If you have any questions, contact Student Records at ns.student.records@austin.utexas.edu 2. Complete the Walk Application To check your Graduation or Walk application results, log onto cns SECURE WEB SERVICES: Select Graduation Application Results if you applied to graduate (graduating in current semester) Select Walker App Results if you applied to walk (walker application is open only in spring semesters) Permission to print name in Commencement program: During the spring semester, if you did not indicate whether or not you gave permission to publish your name in the commencement program, please complete and return a "Consent to Publish" form. Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.