Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. Strategic Research Initiatives Find Funding Catalyst Grant Program Spark Grants Program Center & Institutional Training Grants Students and Postdocs TXBio Grants Prepare a Proposal Budgets & Justifications Data Management Education/Outreach Guidelines and Sponsor Resources Program Assessment Responsible Conduct of Research Student/Postdoc Mentoring Submit a Proposal Steps to Submit your Proposal FAQs Workshops F31 & F32 Fellowship Workshop College Research Policies Cost Sharing Effort Contributions Facilities Change Requests Financial Conflict of Interest (FCOI) Gift & IAP Support Fees Indirect Cost Return Limited Submissions PI Eligibility Research Administrator Resources CNS RAN CNS Spaces Guide for New CNS Research Admins Professional Development RMS Report Writer Guide Shout Outs! Search Contact CNS_SRI@austin.utexas.edu WCH 3.128 Deadlines No upcoming events Home Strategic Research Initiatives Students Incoming Students College Readiness About Our Office OUR MISSION The mission of the College of Natural Sciences Strategic Research Initiatives (SRI) office is to provide tactical research support to faculty and staff to achieve the research and education funding priorities of the College. WHAT WE DO Learn more about the services SRI provides by exploring the links below. CNS Catalyst Grants CNS Catalyst Grants The CNS Catalyst Grant program is a competitive seed funding opportunity which supports teams of 2 or more to begin new interdisciplinary research collaborations within the College. SRI administers two grant cycles each fiscal year (April and October) and awards up to two CNS Catalyst Grants ($50,000 maximum each) each cycle. Fellowship Support Fellowship Support Fellowship workshops and individual coaching are available to all CNS researchers in training. Dr. Angel Syrett offers three NIH NRSA Fellowship Workshops per year and and also the UT Graduate School annual NSF GRFP Workshop, open to all UT students. A general Fellowships 101 workshop is also periodically offered. Please contact Dr. Angel Syrett for information on indivdiual fellowship support and upcoming workshop offerings. Proposal Development Services Proposal Development Services SRI supports large teams of CNS faculty in the preparation of major, multi-investigator research and training grants. We recognize that compiling large grant proposals is a serious undertaking, and we are here to support you in preparing a competitive proposal. Our staff is composed of Ph.D. scientists with formal training in grant writing and experience managing multimillion-dollar center grants. We also serve as proposal reviewers for multiple federal agencies, and we draw from our first-hand experiences to provide you with comprehensive proposal development assistance that is tailored to meet your needs. A list of our services is provided below. Contact CNS_SRI@austin.utexas.edu for more information about any of the services listed or for help with your next major proposal. TECHNICAL SUPPORT FOR PROPOSAL PREPARATION SRI can help you prepare center and training grant proposals by offering assistance with proposal editing and draft review, as well as offering advice regarding proposal organization and content. LOGISTICAL SUPPORT SRI staff can also serve as professional "cat-herders" to keep your faculty team on-time and on-target for developing your proposal. We work frequently with UT-Austin’s Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP) and research administrators throughout the college. We are happy to work with your departmental or personal research administrators to divide and conquer the many appendices and other components required to submit a major center or training grant proposal. LEVERAGING CNS AND UNIVERSITY-LEVEL RESOURCES SRI maintains an inventory of college- and institutional-level resources that can be utilized to develop various required plans for grant proposals, including resources for: Education and Outreach Activities Data Management Responsible Conduct of Research Program Assessment/Evaluation COLLEGE AND DEPARTMENTAL DATA FOR TRAINING GRANTS SRI works with the college’s Director of Postgraduate Education and various Graduate Coordinators to provide faculty with access to demographic and other institutional data required for training grants. Please contact us if you need assistance in compiling data for training grants. GRAPHIC ASSISTANCE Strategic Research Initiatives can facilitate interactions with the college’s Communications Office to help you develop eye-catching, professional-quality graphics for center grants and site visit presentations associated with grant competitions. SITE VISIT PREPARATION If a site visit or reverse site visit is part of your grant application process, Strategic Research Initiatives can help you develop presentations and print materials for the visit. We can also help you identify funds to support travel or other expenses associated with required site visits. Research Admin Support and Mentoring Research Admin Support and Mentoring SRI also provides mentoring and assistance to research support staff in the College. We support administrative staff who work on grants by providing individual training and proposal preparation guidance. Additionally, we help research administrators develop efficient and effective strategies to shepherd proposals and awards through the research administration pipeline. New and experienced research support staff, including postdocs and research scientists who are new to grant writing or proposal prep at UT-Austin, are encouraged to contact us for assistance. Please visit our Research Administrator Resources page to learn about the College's grant support staff working group. Starting Point for Institutional Commitments Starting Point for Institutional Commitments SRI serves as your point of contact to request matching funds or other institutional commitments from the Dean's office. Learn more about how to request institutional commitments. WHO WE ARE ANISE HAWKINS, BA, CRA | PROGRAM Administrator Anise is a research administration professional focused on impacting research endeavors in the College of Natural Sciences through internal funding mechanisms and developing resources, best practices, and procedures to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of research administration. With more than 16 years experience spanning the spectrum of research administration, Anise has supported research through proposal development, review, and submission; contract negotiation; post-award management; intellectual property management; best practice development; and mentorship. Anise co-founded UT-Austin's Association of Research Administrators (ARA) and served as Chair of the Resource and Professional Development Committee from January 2017 - August 2018 and a member of the Administration Committee from September 2018 to present. Anise is a member of Society of Research Administrators International and National Council of University Research Administrators. Angel Syrett, ph.d. | special projects Leader Angel Syrett completed a Ph.D. in Molecular Biology at UT-Austin. Since graduation, she has worked within the College of Natural Sciences primarily as a Grant Writer, Research Manager and Workshop leader, assisting the College's researchers in crafting and submitting high-quality research proposals. She leads ongoing NIH NRSA fellowship workshops and an annual NSF fellowship workshop for researchers in training. Angel has had the unique opportunity to contribute to our community as a scientific illustrator, creating figures, illustrations and cover-art designs for scientific journals, proposals and presentations. Research Restart » Catalyst Grant RFP » Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.