Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. News From the College of Natural Sciences Point of Discovery Subscribe to this category Subscribe via RSS This is the Point of Discovery Podcast brought to you by the College of Natural Sciences Communications Office. Wednesday, 09 March 2022 Physics Point of Discovery A Physicist’s Search for Beauty (Audio) Here in part 2 of our continuing remembrance of Steven Weinberg, we're diving a little deeper into what we know because of him. Weinberg was one of the world's greatest theoretical physicists, and his passing last year was deeply felt not only by us here at The University of Texas at Austin, but by a broad community of scientists and science-loving people. Weinberg summed up the goal of his life's work as: "to know why things are the way they are." To him, that meant distilling the rules of physics down to their simplest, most beautiful essence. Tags: Particle Physics Quantum Physics Physics Monday, 21 February 2022 Physics Point of Discovery Remembering Steven Weinberg (Audio) Today, in the first of two parts of a special segment, we're remembering the life and legacy of one of the greatest theoretical physicists of all time — The University of Texas at Austin's Steven Weinberg, who died in July. We're exploring who he was as a scientist, writer and mentor — and a deep thinker about our place in the universe. We'll hear from colleagues who worked with him — fellow UT Austin physicists Katherine Freese, Willy Fischler and Can Kilic — and from his former student John Preskill. Tags: Physics Thursday, 13 January 2022 Integrative Biology Point of Discovery Frog Pandemic (Audio) Until COVID-19, few people alive today had experienced the chaos and destruction of a really bad pandemic, one that has at times ground businesses, schools and social lives to a near standstill and killed millions globally. But did you know that we aren't alone in being battered by a global infectious disease? Frogs are also struggling through their own pandemic that, according to biologist Kelly Zamudio, has several eerie parallels with COVID-19. Perhaps our own encounters with a pandemic will give us new sympathy for our slimy, bug-eyed friends. Tags: infectious disease Integrative Biology Biology Biodiversity Monday, 16 August 2021 Point of Discovery Presenting the Texas Podcast Network (Audio) Today we're doing something a little different. We're bringing you an excerpt from another great podcast produced here at the University of Texas at Austin, called TX512. It's about all things UT Austin and Texas. Tags: Outreach Wednesday, 12 May 2021 Human Ecology Point of Discovery The Case Against Spanking (Audio) Physical punishment, or spanking, is widely practiced in the U.S. and around the world, although it appears to be decreasing. Parents, caregivers and school administrators who use it say the goal is to prevent unwanted behaviors and teach children to make better choices. But does it actually work? And what long term effects does it have on the physical and mental health of people who are punished this way? Tags: Human Development & Family Sciences Human Ecology Thursday, 04 March 2021 Point of Discovery Do Sick Animals Socially Distance? (Audio) When we get sick, we change our social interactions—we keep away from others and we don't share food. It turns out, humans aren't the only species to do it. Tags: Behavior infectious disease Integrative Biology Wednesday, 14 October 2020 Point of Discovery Artificial Intelligence Revs Up Evolution’s Clock (Audio) Evolutionary biologists never have enough time. Some of the most mysterious behaviors in the animal kingdom—like parenting—evolved over thousands of years, if not longer. Human lifespans are just too short to sit and observe such complex behaviors evolve. But computer scientists are beginning to offer clues by using artificial intelligence to simulate the life and death of thousands of generations of animals in a matter of hours or days. It's called computational evolution. Tags: Evolution Artificial Intelligence Computer Science Friday, 21 August 2020 Point of Discovery Ask the COVID-19 Experts (Audio) We asked you, dear listeners, to send us your most burning questions about COVID-19. And you didn't disappoint. You asked: When will it be safe for my 12-week-old baby to meet her grandparents? Can you catch it twice? Is the virus mutating and will that make it harder to develop vaccines? In today's episode, our three experts get to the bottom of these questions, and more. Tags: infectious disease Statistics and Data Sciences molecular biology Epidemiology health & medicine Immunology Integrative Biology Monday, 08 June 2020 Point of Discovery The Next 50 Years: Anybody Out There? (Audio) In these next few decades, will humans finally find life in space? We asked University of Texas at Austin astronomer Caroline Morley and her answer just might surprise you. Morley shares her vision for the future in this latest episode of our miniseries, The Next 50 Years. Tags: astronomy Planets The Next 50 Years Tuesday, 28 April 2020 Point of Discovery The Next 50 Years: A Model of Life on the Atomic Scale (Audio) Can we simulate life — in all its messy complexity and at the scale of each individual atom — in a computer? Tags: Computational Biology Cell Biology Chemistry The Next 50 Years Friday, 27 March 2020 Point of Discovery Science Amid the Social Distance (Audio) Daily life has changed for many of us due to the coronavirus pandemic. During this unusual time, when it's harder to connect physically with important people in our lives, it can be helpful to step back and spend a little time thinking about the things that still bind us together, like the wonder of the natural world and the hope that scientists offer us as we take on societal challenges. Tags: molecular biology Human Development & Family Sciences Human Ecology Marine Science astronomy Physics Evolution Genetics Tuesday, 10 March 2020 Point of Discovery The Next 50 Years: An A.I. Designed to Make Life Better (Audio) Artificial intelligence is becoming more and more a part of our daily lives. But will AI have mostly positive or negative impacts on society? Tags: The Next 50 Years Artificial Intelligence Computer Science Robotics Friday, 14 February 2020 Point of Discovery The Next 50 Years: Your Perfect Meal and Exercise Plan (Audio) Have you ever wondered why some people seem to be able to follow a specific diet or exercise plan and others fail? The answer might have to do with factors unique to each person, like their microbiomes and genetics. Tags: The Next 50 Years Human Ecology Nutritional Sciences health & medicine Friday, 10 January 2020 Point of Discovery The Next 50 Years: A Global Census of Life (Audio) We know absolutely nothing about roughly 80 percent of the different types of life on Earth. Biologist David Hillis aims to discover all those missing species—by some estimates 5 to 10 million—possibly in the next few decades. Sound impossible? He shares his vision for how this would work in this first episode of our new miniseries, The Next 50 Years. Tags: The Next 50 Years Evolution Ecology Integrative Biology Biology Biodiversity Thursday, 19 December 2019 Point of Discovery Coming Soon: A New Podcast Miniseries (Audio) In this episode, producer and host Marc Airhart chats with senior editor Christine Sinatra about how the podcast has changed over the last few years (we're now in our fifth year of production – yay!) and where we're going in the future. We also share some exciting news: we're kicking off a new miniseries called The Next 50 Years. The first episode drops in January 2020. Stay tuned! Tags: The Next 50 Years Jump to first page Previous Jump to last page Next 1(Current Page) Go to page 2 Go to page 3 Go to page 4 ABOUT Behind every scientific discovery is a scientist (or 12) and a story. “Point of Discovery” takes you on a journey beyond WHAT we know to HOW we know it. Along the way, listeners will meet the sometimes quirky, always passionate people whose curiosity unlocks hidden worlds. HOST Marc Airhart Email LISTEN Apple Podcasts Google Podcasts Spotify Amazon Stitcher RSS SURVEY Podcast Survey DISCLAIMER Point of Discovery is part of the Texas Podcast Network, brought to you by The University of Texas at Austin. Podcasts are produced by faculty members and staffers at UT Austin who work with University Communications to craft content that adheres to journalistic best practices. The University of Texas at Austin offers these podcasts at no charge. Podcasts appearing on the network and this webpage represent the views of the hosts, not of The University of Texas at Austin. Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.