Giving News Events Outreach Directory Students UNDERGRADUATE Future Students Current Students Advising & Degree Planning Honors & Scholarships Research Experiences Student Communities Study Abroad Career Services GRADUATE Prospective Students Current Students KEY RESOURCES Student Life Health Professions Office Support Services Graduation Volunteering & Outreach Degree Checklists and 4-Year Plans The Freshman Research Initiative provides hands-on science experience. Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Directory Honors & Awards More » blank-line Research Centers & Institutes Research Areas Core Facilities Research Restart Stengl-Wyer Endowment The Texas Innovation Center blank-line Resources Research amid COVID-19 Faculty Affairs Office Research & Facilities Office Grants Office Postdoctoral Affairs Teaching Resources Current Job Listings College of Natural Sciences is home to a number of nationally-recognized teachers and researchers. Staff Staff Home Staff Directory Staff Awards Staff Committee More » blank-line Staff Celebration blank-line Business Services Office Information Technology Office Meet our award-winning staff. Alumni Alumni & Friends Home Get Involved Make a Gift More » blank-line Advisory Council blank-line Office of Development Alumni Relations Office Read about members of our diverse and distinguished alumni community. About About Home Departments Facts & Rankings Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Libraries & Collections Advisory Council Hall of Honor Contacts Maps & Directions More » Philanthropy Make a Gift Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi. About Dean's Office Departments Facts & Rankings Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Human Ecology Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Physics Statistics Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Excellence Awards Hall of Honor Current Recipients Past Recipients History Award Descriptions History Libraries & Collections Maps & Directions Contacts Places of the College Room Reservations Home The College of Natural Sciences is one of the largest colleges of science in the United States, with a community of more than 12,000 undergraduate and graduate students, 700 tenure and non-tenure track faculty members, and 1,200 staff. Preparing Tomorrow's Leaders The College of Natural Sciences is a major source of future scientists, doctors, mathematicians, technologists, educators and entrepreneurs, and has become quite popular with students. We now graduate about 1,800 every year, more than double the number from 2001. In large measure, this success stems from our commitment to developing new paradigms for educating math and science students of the 21st century, thus improving retention, diversity and graduation rates. We believe that: All students should be placed in a small academic community program. Students learn best through gaining hands-on experience and experience in leadership roles. Technology can transform teaching and learning. The college has been a pioneer in this area. Commitment to Basic Science and Discovery Research is the core of the College of Natural Sciences. The college is home to many of the top faculty and best graduate students in the world, and its undergraduates learn by engaging in cutting-edge research in laboratories across campus. Our scientists and student have access to world-class research facilities, and grants and contracts awarded to faculty amount to more than $110 million per year. Through research programs in the college, faculty and students are developing new technologies, ideas and solutions that change the world. Fast Facts Established: 1970 Dean: Dr. David Vanden Bout Largest college at The University of Texas at Austin 12 departments 1 Nobel Laureate & 1 Abel Prize Winner 22 members of the National Academies 40 recipients of Regents' Outstanding Teaching Awards 20 fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences 3 recipients of the National Medal of Science 1 National Medal of Technology and Innovation recipient >$100 million in extramural funding annually More College Facts & Rankings » Departments » Centers & Institutes » Diversity & Inclusion » Departments & Schools Astronomy Chemistry Computer Science Integrative Biology Marine Science Mathematics Molecular Biosciences Neuroscience Statistics and Data Sciences Physics Human Ecology Human Development and Family Sciences Nutritional Sciences Students Advising Centers Career Services Health Professions Office Honors Office Office for Undergraduate Research Biology Instructional Office Dean's Office College Leadership Strategic Plan Business Services Communications & Events Office of Development Faculty Affairs Information Technology Research & Facilities Undergraduate Education Graduate Education College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin 120 Inner Campus Dr Stop G2500 Austin, TX 78712 Campus Map » Student Inquiries: 512 471 4536 General Inquiries: 512 471 3285 Login » Sitemap » Help » © Copyright 2019 College of Natural Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.