CNS - White BG Harvard CNS Logo Harvard CNS Equipment Training Events Virtual Tour User Info User Portal Become a CNS User MENU Nanofabrication Overview Tool Search Lithography Thin Film Deposition Etching Metrology and Backend Other Facilities Electron Microscopy Overview Tool Search Transmission Electron Microscopy Biological Electron Microscopy Focused Ion Beam Scanning Electron Microscopy Nanoscale Analysis Overview Tool Search Optical Imaging and Spectroscopy Surface Analysis Scan-Probe Facility Tomography User Info CNS COVID-19 Policy Overview User Policy & Info User Fees Billing Policy Citing the CNS Forms Nanofabrication Facility Use Imaging & Analysis Facility Use CNS Info About CNS Event Calendar Featured Research Presentations Publications Open Positions Get In Touch Visiting CNS Contact Staff Directory Logins doubleArrow-right Admin Staff Intranet Training Events CNS User Portal Harvard University Center for Nanoscale Systems The Center for Nanoscale Systems (CNS) is a shared-use core facility at Harvard University. Our scientific focus is the study, design and fabrication of nanoscale structures and their integration into large and complex interacting systems. x Nanofabrication The Center for Nanoscale Systems' Nanofabrication Facility, provides resource and staff support for fabricating and characterizing nanoscale devices and structures. Read Overview Electron Microscopy The imaging team at provides a wide range of tools, training, and expertise, with a primary focus on providing access to world-class advanced electron microscopy instrumentation to the CNS community. Read Overview Nanoscale Analysis The CNS Analysis, Laser, and scan-probe microscopy laboratories enable users to explore a wide variety of behavior in complex nanosystems using a diverse array of optical, mechanical, and analytical instruments. Read Overview hexagons New CNS Facilities at the Allston SEC The Center for Nanoscale Systems recently opened three new facilities in the Science and Engineering Complex (SEC) at Harvard University’s Allston Campus. Our new materials characterization lab houses a diverse selection of instrumentation for analyzing hard and soft materials, including thermal, mechanical, surface, particle, and chemical characterization. Our soft lithography facility is equipped for fabricating and replicating micrometer to nanoscale features using soft elastomeric materials, either through self-assembly or replica molding. Meanwhile, the new imaging lab has two high resolution electron microscopes, along with an array of electron microscopy sample preparation tools for hard and soft materials. Click here for more information about the tools available in our Allston and Cambridge facilities of contact info@cns.fas.harvard.edu for more information. Featured Article Read more Dots Message from the directors Robert Westervelt, Director William L. Wilson, Executive Director The Center for Nanoscale Systems (CNS) at Harvard University was created with a very clear vision: To provide a collaborative multi-disciplinary research environment to support of the creation and evolution of world-class nanoscience and technical expertise, for the Harvard research community as well as the larger community of external researchers both from academia and industry. Our Core Values: Facilitating leading-edge, multi-disciplinary, research and education in the areas of fabrication, imaging, and characterization of nanoscale structures, across the disciplines of applied physics, biology, chemistry, electrical engineering, geology, materials science, medicine and physics. Creating a “world-class” collaborative nanotechnology research community by providing shared instrumentation facilities and infrastructure, expert staff, synergistic meeting places, and educational opportunities conducive to productive scientific engagement. As the New England hub of the NSF National Nanotechnology Coordinated Infrastructure (NNCI), CNS strives to be at the leading edge of science and technology, by providing world-class tools for world-class research, and by fostering a strong competitive edge for our nation’s investigators. Importantly we serve a broad, diverse, national set of users who are focused on meeting the nation’s needs in a wide range of next generation technologies. The focus of the technical team at CNS has been to develop specialized tools, processes, instrumentation, and expertise to help design, simulate, characterize, and fabricate novel materials, nanostructures, devices, and systems, going beyond conventional approaches. We invite you to join our research community, pushing the envelope of nanoscience and nanoengineering. See staff list News 10 May, 2022 Silicon carbide modulator New research, partly performed at the Center for Nanoscale Systems, in which the researchers design, fabricate, and demonstrate a Pockels modulator in silicon carbide can be found in a Nature Communications publication and highlighted by the Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Science. [+MORE] 10 May, 2022 New maskless aligner at CNS We are excited to announce the arrival of our new Maskless Aligner MLA-2 at CNS. This is an advanced direct-write photolithography tool for exposing photoresist on varieties of substrate materials such as silicon, III-V, glass, diamond, ceramic, and metals etc. The tool is being used for fabrication of quantum devices, MEMS, micro-optic elements, sensors, actuators, MOEMS, and other micro-devices. The system, equipped with both pneumatic and optical focusing, has a minimum resolution of 0.6um ,and a global alignment accuracy of 500nm. [+MORE] 09 Mar, 2022 New RC2 spectroscopic ellipsometer The RC2 spectroscopic ellipsometer provides innovative new technology: dual rotating compensators, achromatic compensator design, advanced light source, and next-generation spectrometer design. The RC2 is a near-universal solution for the diverse applications of spectroscopic ellipsometry and Mueller matrix ellipsometry. Measurement Capabilities • High speed data acquisition over a wide spectral range (210nm-2500nm) with small focus spot (120um) and live camera sample view. • Standard SE: Both Psi and Delta over their full range. • Generalized-SE: Characterize samples with complete 2x2 Jones matrix. • Mueller matrix SE: Measure 15 normalized MM elements or all 16 un-normalized MM elements. • Depolarization: Check sample properties that cause depolarization. • Intensity Reflectance and Transmittance (manual mount). • Like- and Cross-polarized Intensity: Determine pp, ss, ps and sp Reflectance or Transmittance [+MORE] Events Special CNS Seminar: Finite-size and Surface effects: Deep Defects in Nanostructured SiC Jun 01 3:00pm - 4:00pm Dr. Tamanna Joshi Special CNS Seminar: Dr Ibrahim Abdelwahab "Large Optical Non-linearities in emerging 2D materials" May 27 11:00am - 12:00pm N/A View Calendar Logins doubleArrow-right Admin Staff Intranet Training Events CNS User Portal Harvard CNS Logo Center for Nanoscale Systems Laboratory for Integrated Science and Engineering Digital Accessibility Policy Safety at Our Facility © 2022 Harvard CNS. All rights reserved. Harvard CNS NSF Logo Harvard CNS Harvard Wreath Logo Electron Microscopy Nanofabrication Nanoscale Analysis About CNS Visiting CNS Harvard CNS Logo Center for Nanoscale Systems * Laboratory for Integrated Science and Engineering Digital Accessibility Policy Safety at Our Facility