UCF Coastal About About UCF CoastalFriends of UCF CoastalCoastal Advisory BoardUCF Coastal BrochureSustainable Coastal Systems Research Cluster News Our StoriesExternal StoriesNews ClipsNewsletter Publications Partners People Give National Center for Integrated Coastal Research Jump to page content About the National Center for Integrated Coastal Research The National Center for Integrated Coastal Research (UCF Coastal) integrates science with societal needs to find solutions. Our team of interdisciplinary researchers and scientists is committed to an evidence-based, whole-community approach to increase the resiliency and sustainability of coastal communities by bringing together biologists, chemists, engineers, emergency managers, sociologists, political scientists, medical researchers, economists and urban planners. Responsible management of Florida’s exceptional coastal resources and ocean-based economy depends on innovative scientific research to address complex environmental, economic and social challenges. UCF Coastal’s goal is to link the ecological security of coastal ecosystems with the economic security of coastal communities, ensuring the sustainability of our coastlines and economy for generations to come. Director Graham Worthy, Ph.D. Pegasus Professor and Chair Department of Biology UCF College of Sciences Science Director Christopher Emrich, Ph.D. Boardman Endowed Associate Professor of Environmental Science and Public Administration Did you Know? Miami is listed as number 10 on the list of global cities most likely to run out of drinking water. This is due to saltwater intrusion into the Biscayne Aquifer, the city’s main source of fresh water. (United Nations) 2017 was the costliest hurricane season ever with a total of $306.2 billion in damages from Harvey on Texas, Irma on Florida, Maria on Puerto Rico and Nate on Mississippi. (FEMA) VISIT FLORIDA estimated that a record 116.5 million visitors came to Florida in 2017: 102.3 million domestic visitors, 10.7 million overseas visitors and 3.5 million Canadian visitors. Florida has 1,800 miles of coastline and about 500,000 acres of salt marsh. Coastal development has reduced the amount of salt marsh in Florida and therefore reduced the ecosystem services salt marshes can provide (such as flood prevention and storm protection). Support UCF Coastal Cluster Faculty Focus Sergio Alvarez , Ph.D. Dr. Alvarez’s research focus is on issues related to fisheries, coastal adaptation and mitigation of climate change impacts, valuation of ecosystem services, and modeling coupled social-ecological systems. Jacopo Baggio , Ph.D. Dr. Baggio’s research focuses on analyzing and modelling social-ecological systems. Specifically on social-ecological networks, characterizing inter-dependencies between biodiversity, food, water, energy and decision making. Kristy Lewis , Ph.D. Dr. Lewis’ research investigates the ecology of natural and anthropogenic induced changes on estuarine and marine food webs and coastal communities. Thomas Wahl , Ph.D. Dr. Wahl’s research connects civil/coastal engineering and various science disciplines (e.g., oceanography, hydrology, meteorology, climatology) to better understand the vulnerability of coastal societies, built infrastructure, and fragile ecosystems under climate change conditions. In the News Check out more stories Biology Using the Arts to Take a Deep Dive into the Sea A few phenomena will occur as the audience settles into Steinmetz Hall at the Dr. Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Saturday, April 9.… News Researchers Develop Method to Determine Where Storm Surges Are Increasing Most Extreme storms, like Sandy or Xaver, don’t happen often but when they do, cities need to be prepared. That’s why researchers have developed a new… Biology From the ‘Smithsonian’ Magazine to the Tonight Show, UCF Research has a Big Year in the News UCF research stories were everywhere in 2021 from Smithsonian magazine to The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon. The most popular research stories of 2021 focused… Featured Story UCF Receives $3.4 Million Grant to Help Homeowners Evaluate Property Risks When buying a home, people often weigh the quality of the schools, crime rates, cost and property values into their buying equation. Rarely do they think about disaster risk, mostly because there is no easy way to do so. UCF Professor Chris Emrich and his team are about to change all that… Read More Upcoming Events Up Next Looking Ahead Stay Informed Our UCF Coastal team is making a difference in our coastal communities. Enter your information below to stay informed of the latest news and hear about upcoming events. Name* First Name Last Name Email* CAPTCHA Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: UCF College of Sciences, 12716 Pegasus Drive, Orlando, FL, 32816. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the TrueRemove® link, found at the bottom of every email. UCF Coastal 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 407-823-2000 Follow us on Twitter