Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Academics Admissions Overview Undergraduate Graduate Financial Support Prospective Student Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Scholarships and Aid Thanks to generous donations from alumni, corporations and friends of the Cockrell School, undergraduates received more than $5.6 million in merit-based awards this past year, including awards for first-year and current students. Have you already been awarded a scholarship from the Cockrell School of Engineering? Review the Scholarship Policies on ENGR Direct Students. Future Students The Cockrell School of Engineering awards scholarships aimed at recognizing the academic achievements and leadership potential of future students. To be considered for merit-based scholarships, complete the Engineering Honors Program Application by December 1. UT Austin does not have a separate scholarship application for prospective, first-year students. A completed FAFSA is not required but is strongly recommended to be considered for available university scholarships. Some scholarships administered by the UT Office of Financial Aid have special qualifications or additional requirements. View information about those in MyStatus after the university receives your admission application. Current Students Currently enrolled engineering students may complete the Engineering Scholarship Application by April 1 each year to be considered for scholarship awards and renewals the following year. The Cockrell School also offers scholarships throughout the year from companies, organizations and external groups. To view the current scholarship list, visit ENGR Direct Students. Have you already been awarded a scholarship from the Cockrell School of Engineering? Find out next steps on the Scholarship Policies page on ENGR Direct Students. Transfer Students The Cockrell School does not offer scholarships to incoming transfer students. Transfer students are encouraged to complete the UT Scholarship Application for Continuing and Transfer Applicants by March 15. Once enrolled, transfer students may complete the Engineering Scholarship Application by April 1. International Students The Cockrell School does not offer scholarships to incoming international undergraduates. Current international undergraduates may apply for a small number of scholarships available by completing the Engineering Scholarship Application by April 1. For additional scholarships and financial aid opportunities, visit UT Austin International Financial Services Office. Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin