Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Accreditation Facilities History Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us About About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Leadership Roger T. Bonnecaze Interim Dean This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Roger T. Bonnecaze was appointed interim dean of the Cockrell School in July 2021. He holds the George T. and the Gladys H. Abell Endowed Chair in Engineering in the McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering. He joined the engineering faculty at UT Austin in 1993. Prior to his appointment as interim dean, Bonnecaze served as chair of the McKetta Department of... Keep Reading Gerald E. Speitel Jr. Associate Dean for Academic Affairs This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. John G. Ekerdt Associate Dean for Research This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Christine Julien Associate Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Michele Meyer Assistant Dean for Student Services This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Patrick Abbott Chief Business Officer This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Edgardo Irizarry Arroyo Interim Executive Director of Texas Engineering Executive Education This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Chris Higgins Chief Development Officer This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Bob Gloyd Director of Information Technology This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Department Chairs Clint Dawson Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Shelly Sakiyama-Elbert Department of Biomedical Engineering This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Delia Milliron McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Robert Gilbert Department of Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Diana Marculescu Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Donald Siegel Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Jon Olson Hildebrand Department of Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin