Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Student Organizations Leadership Development Research and Projects Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us Student Life Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Externships An Externship connects students and employers over winter break to provide exposure to a wide variety of career fields and industries within engineering. This one-day job-shadowing opportunity occurs in January before the start of the spring semester. During an Externship, employers demonstrate current projects and discuss possible career paths within their organization. Students utilize an Externship to explore what a potential career can look like within their major. Past Externships have included panels with company leadership, question-and-answer sessions and tours of workspaces. Virtual Externships will be available as an option for employers to accommodate social distancing guidelines. Externship was an excellent way to get to know company culture and experience what a day in engineering looks like. - Past Participant 2021-22 Externship Program Timeline Employer Registration Monday, September 13 - Friday, October 29, 2021 Student Registration Monday, November 1 - Friday, November 19, 2021 Students will be notified of Externship Matches in December 2022 Externship Visits Employer selects one day during the weeks from: Monday, January 3 - Friday, January 14, 2022 Registration Process Students and employers must have an account in the ECAC Job System to participate in the externship program. Employers Login to your ECAC account and select "externship" from the jobs tab Select which date(s) you would like to host students If another date is preferred, contact the This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Build your agenda for either a virtual or an in-person visit by adding details to the event description. Need help getting started? Contact Marivel Leija, ECAC Externship Coordinator at This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. or 512-471-1915. Employer FAQs How are students matched with employers? The matching process takes into account which majors the employers would like to invite. Once matching between employers and students is complete, we send a list of students who have selected your company along with their resumes. Is there a minimum or maximum number of students that must participate? On average, employers select 10-15 students. Some employers take as few as 5, some take as many as 30. Employers are able to set the maximum and minimum numbers of students, so you have control over how many students are able to sign up for your externship. What have other companies’ externship visits looked like? This can vary widely between employers. Some do a full day of activities, others do a half day (ex: 10am-3pm). Students most enjoy being able to tour facilities and talk to actual engineers who can provide insight into what kinds of projects they work on and what their day-to-day is like. Short presentations about the company’s work, vision and culture also go over well. Meals are usually provided for students by the company dependent on the length and time of the visit. Would the students be able to showcase themselves to recruiters/engineers while they’re visiting with us? We view externships as an excellent opportunity for students to get valuable on-site experience with employers in their field of study. It is primarily an opportunity for employers to showcase what it would be like to work for that company, but the program is flexible enough to also allow for students to demonstrate what they offer as well. While the externship experience is not meant to be a formal recruiting opportunity, the externship day can be structured by the employer to offer plenty of opportunities for more informal interaction between students and recruiters/engineers. Employers have control over how they set the agenda. Student Participants Externship is open to all undergraduate engineering students, except those graduating in the semester prior to when the externship would start. Externship is particularly valuable to first- and second-year undergraduate students. Student must be registered with the Engineering Career Assistance Center (ECAC). Students apply through the ECAC Job System by uploading a resume and searching for Externship Listings; submit when student registration begins Student FAQs Interested in participating in an externship? Interested students are encouraged to read through the following FAQs to learn more about externships. Please contact the This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. for additional questions or concerns. How long does an externship last? Each employer has a different itinerary, but in most cases, there is an entire day of planned activities. The average Externship lasts about five hours. Will I be interviewed? No. The externship visit is not a formal recruiting event. It is an opportunity to learn more about the field of engineering without the stress of an interview. Will an externship lead to a co-op or internship? Not necessarily. We encourage you to bring a resume and network with the employer representatives; however, this is not intended to be a job-searching event. How do I get to the employer site? You will need to provide your own transportation to and from the employer site. However, upon registration completion you will be added to a discussion board that will allow ride coordination with your peers. What do I wear to an externship visit? Unless otherwise noted by the host employer, dress business casual. View interview attire guidelines on ENGR Direct Students. Am I guaranteed an externship visit? Yes and no. Although we do our best to enlist employers from each engineering discipline and in multiple cities, not all students will be accommodated with an employer in their major and preferred location. Students are matched with one employer based on academic discipline in order of resume submission. Students who frequently check their emails and promptly act on them have a better chance of getting an externship with their top choice. Keep in mind that even if you are not matched with your top choice of employer, you will still benefit from visiting another organization and learning about how engineering is applied in the corporate world. Are there any consequences if I select an employer to visit, then do not attend on the day of the externship? Yes. If you do not show up for your externship and fail to contact both the employer and the externship coordinator ll in advance, you will lose access to your ECAC Job System account. This will block you from using the online system until you come in to meet with the externship coordinator. Not showing up is not fair to the employer, who spends time and money preparing for you, as well as to other students who may have wanted to visit that employer. Remember, once you select an employer to visit, you are obligated to participate. They will be expecting you and will communicate with the Engineering Career Assistance Center if you do not show. How do I apply? Students must have an ECAC Job System account to participate in the externship program. To apply: Create an ECAC Job System account Upload a resume View employers participating by searching for Externship Listings Jobs > ECAC System Jobs > Advanced Search > Select "Show Me: Externship Listings" > Search Submit your resume to Externship Listings you would like to attend when student registration begins. How will I be matched? Students are matched with one employer site based on major and slots available in order of resume submission. Students who submitted their resume to multiple listings will be matched based on first available. Students will see a message within the externship listing once they have been matched. Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin