Skip to main content SearchSearch Search Search We are TEXAS ENGINEERING We are relentless in our pursuit to strengthen our communities, advance our economy and improve life for future generations. We develop engineering leaders who think big and take risks to create change. Through world-class, hands-on education and a deep commitment to innovation, we are working together to solve society’s most challenging problems. 16 Undergrad and Grad Programs Ranked in the Top 10 Texas’ Top Engineering Program 4 National Medal Winners Austin’s Tech Laboratory From energy innovation, to next-gen wearables, to life-saving therapeutics and more, Texas Engineering research is tackling the biggest challenges of our time. Explore Our Strategic Research Plan Learn About Our Partnership with the Army Futures Command Collaborate With Us Dreamers and Doers Imagining, designing, prototyping, collaborating — these are the things Texas Engineers do better than anyone. In the Cockrell School, learning is creating. And it’s a hands-on experience. Check Out Texas Inventionworks Watch Students Test Their Rocket Learn More About Research and Projects Entrepreneurs and Risk-Takers Innovation, entrepreneurship and audacity are at the core of the Cockrell experience. From inventing the lithium-ion battery to launching bold new startups, Texas Engineering turns academic excellence into real-world impact. Read About Recent Startup Funding View Entrepreneurship Opportunities Visit the Texas Innovation Center People-Focused The Cockrell School is relentless in its pursuit to empower our community, develop future leaders, cultivate a more inclusive engineering profession and improve lives around the world. Help Us Build Community Learn About the Ramshorn Scholars Program Find Out More About Our DEI Initiatives Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin