Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us Academics Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Programs Our M.S. and Ph.D. programs are multidisciplinary and wide-ranging. We encourage prospective graduate students to explore options based on their research and academic interests and connect with program faculty advisors and coordinators as well as individual faculty members in your area of interest. Aerospace Engineering In aerospace engineering, students have the opportunity to work in the following areas of study: aerothermodynamics and fluid dynamics; solids, structures and materials; controls, autonomy and robotics; and orbital mechanics. Our graduates go on to pursue careers as engineers, scientists, inventors, astronauts, administrators and leaders in the field of aerospace engineering. Programs offered: MASTER'S PH.D. Biomedical Engineering Students in the biomedical engineering graduate program grow and build interdisciplinary knowledge in areas of regenerative medicine, cellular and biomolecular biomechanics, computational simulation, imaging technologies and more, including cross-disciplinary collaborations with medical practicioners in UT's Dell Medical School. Programs offered: Bachelor's/Master's Master's Ph.D. Chemical Engineering In chemical engineering, students work alongside world-renowned faculty in a wide array of areas such as energy, process engineering, biotechnology, nanotechnology and advanced materials, helping to develop groundbreaking technologies such as glucose monitoring devices, step-and-flash imprint lithography and antibody therapies for cancer. Program offered: Ph.D. Civil Engineering The complex problems surrounding the nexus of cities, water and energy demand that engineers have increased breadth and depth of knowledge. The civil engineering program provides students with the educational background and teamwork needed to innovate future solutions, technologies and sustainable systems. Programs offered: MASTER'S PH.D. Electrical and Computer Engineering Electrical and computer engineering students can choose from nine academic tracks tailored to their research area of interest, including architecture, computer systems and embedded systems; electromagnetics and acoustics; solid-state electronics; and decision, information and communications engineering. Programs offered: Bachelor's/Master's Master's Ph.D. Engineering Management The engineering management M.S. degree is designed to meet the growing demand for technical leaders who have strong engineering, science and technical backgrounds and who must demonstrate an understanding of management and financial issues. Available on-site one weekend a month with synchronous online participation options available. Program offered: Master's Engineering Mechanics Students in the engineering mechanics work with faculty who have a range of expertise in experimental, theoretical and computational mechanics. Graduates of this program are equipped to solve technical problems in a variety of fields including aerospace, automotive, petroleum, manufacturing and computer engineering. Programs offered: MASTER'S PH.D. Environmental and Water Resources Engineering In environmental and water resources engineering, a broad discipline dedicated to addressing environmental issues in air, water and soil, students work in various sub-disciplines, such as water quality engineering, water resources engineering, outdoor and indoor air quality engineering, ocean engineering and hazardous waste management. Programs offered: MASTER'S PH.D. Materials Science and Engineering Students in the materials science and engineering program study core materials subjects while also developing depth within a specific area that cuts across multiple areas of science and engineering. Research areas include nanomaterials, clean energy materials and general materials. Programs offered: Master's Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering The mechanical engineering program educates and advances the next generation of mechanical engineering leaders, innovators who will transform energy, materials and information to meet the needs of society. Students work in areas such as manufacturing and design, acoustics, biomechanical engineering and dynamic systems and control. Programs offered: MASTER'S Online Master's PH.D. GRADUATE CERTIFICATE Operations Research and Industrial Engineering Through coursework and research, students in operations research and industrial engineering will develop the technical, analytical and managerial skills in modeling, risk-assessment, data analytics, computational methods and many other areas necessary to succeed in a variety of fields. Master's Ph.D. Petroleum Engineering Students in the petroleum engineering program join from a variety of undergraduate degrees and training that can be applied in 12 research areas spanning enhanced oil recovery, drilling and completions, geologic carbon storage, natural gas engineering and unconventional resources. Programs offered: Master's Ph.D. Graduate Certificate Software Engineering The software engineering concentration of the electrical and computer engineering M.S. degree provides tools to deliver robust, advanced, on-time and in-budget software systems. Classes are on-site one weekend per month. Programs offered: Master's Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin