Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Accreditation Facilities History Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us About About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Facts and Rankings With 280 tenure/tenure-track faculty members, 680 staff members, 8,000 students and 70,000 alumni living worldwide, the Cockrell School of Engineering boasts one of the largest and strongest engineering communities in the nation. The school consists of seven academic departments offering 11 undergraduate majors and 13 graduate degree programs, and the engineering research enterprise is funded by $278 million in annual expenditures across two UT campuses. #6 Best Graduate Engineering Program in the U.S. U.S. News and World Report #10 Best Undergraduate Engineering Program in the U.S. U.S. News and World Report #10 Best Engineering Program in the World Academic Ranking of World Universities Rankings Texas Engineering is one of the best programs in the nation and the best in Texas, with several discipline-specific programs consistently ranked in the top 10 in the nation. The recognition speaks for itself: No. 10 best engineering undergraduate program in the nation (U.S. News and World Report) No. 6 best engineering graduate program in the nation (U.S. News and World Report) No. 10 best engineering program in the world (Academic Ranking of World Universities) No. 5 producer of minority B.S. engineering graduates in the nation (Diverse Issues in Higher Education) No. 14 producer of women B.S. engineering graduates in the nation (American Society for Engineering Education) View our program rankings Students Entering freshmen have an average SAT (or equivalent) score of over 1400, and most graduate in the top 10 percent of their high school class. On average, 10 percent are valedictorians or salutatorians. By the Numbers: Approximately 6,000 undergraduate students enrolled Approximately 2,000 graduate students enrolled $11,000 per year for Texas residents (approximate tuition cost) 1,500+ scholarships (totaling $5.6 million) provided to Cockrell School students every year 80+ engineering student organizations 90 percent of undergraduate students intern or conduct research during their degree program 90+ percent of B.S. graduates receive job offers or attend grad school upon graduation $77,000+ average starting salary for Texas Engineering B.S. graduates View enrollment data Faculty National medal winners, national academy members, award-winning teachers, world-changing inventors — these are the professors who teach and conduct research in the Cockrell School of Engineering. Among the Texas Engineering faculty community are: 40+ current and emeritus members of the National Academy of Engineering 1 recipient of the Nobel Prize (John Goodenough, 2019 prize in chemistry) 3 recipients of the National Medal of Technology and Innovation 1 recipient of the National Medal of Science 2 members of the National Academy of Medicine 2 members of the National Academy of Sciences 90+ junior faculty members have received the National Science Foundation's Faculty Early Career Development Award, considered the nation's top honor for young faculty (since 2000) Inventors of the lithium-ion battery, selective laser sintering (3D printing), the diabetes monitoring device, the anthrax and whooping cough vaccines, and much more. Learn more about our faculty Alumni The Texas Engineering alumni community — over 70,000 strong — consists of corporate and thought leaders that are behind some of the most influential innovations of the last hundred years. From Rex Tillerson (B.S. CE 1975), the former ExxonMobil CEO and U.S. Secretary of State, to Ervin Perry (M.S. CE 1961; Ph.D. CE 1964), the first African American faculty member at any major university in the South, the Cockrell School has produced a distinguished community of graduates. Learn more about our alumni Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin