Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Academics Admissions Overview Undergraduate Graduate Financial Support Prospective Student Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit External Transfer Students seeking admission to the Cockrell School of Engineering with 24 hours of transferable credit from other colleges or universities are classified as external transfer students. All students admitted to the Cockrell School are admitted to a specific major. Due to the nature of transfer students’ coursework, we highly recommend students apply to the major in which they intend to earn a degree. It is important for applicants to be familiar with the areas of study within the major degree offerings. Explore Majors In addition to submitting a completed application for admission, external transfer applicants to the Cockrell School of Engineering should also review the following information regarding special application requirements and admission restrictions: Students do not need to earn an associate's degree before transferring. Admission to the Cockrell School is competitive and based on criteria similar to but higher than those for admission to the university. The school limits undergraduate admission to the number of students it can provide a high-quality education. Texas community college students should review the recommended core curriculum courses and transfer guides prior to applying. Each transfer applicant's performance in technical coursework such as calculus, chemistry and physics is carefully reviewed. Application deadline is March 1 and it is only for Fall admission. Please note: Completion of pre-requisite sequences in the major area can require a minimum of five or more semesters. Therefore, most transfer students should anticipate a minimum of five long semesters or the equivalent in residence at the University. Most transfer students in the Cockrell School take six to seven long semesters to graduate after transferring from another university. Most students who complete 24 hours at another institution and transfer directly to the Cockrell School are often best on track for completing an engineering degree in a timely manner. We encourage students to become familiar with the degree plans for their major of choice and utilize the Automated Transfer Equivalency through Texas Admissions to evaluate how their individual credits will transfer. If an external transfer student accepts an offer to a different major at UT Austin with the intent of switching into the Cockrell School, they will need to meet internal transfer requirements and apply through a competitive application process. Students with non-engineering majors need at least one year of in-residence coursework at UT Austin before they are eligible to apply for internal transfer. Learn more about internal transfer Guidelines and Requirements for Transfer Students Below are general guidelines for prospective transfer students. Additional information is available through Texas Admissions. Students who wish to transfer to the university from another college or university must apply to Texas Admissions. Requirements for admission as a transfer student vary, but all transfer applicants must submit transcripts of all college and high school coursework. Transfer students must have completed at least the equivalent of: Mathematics 408D or M 408L or M 408M (TCCN: Math 2415) Physics 303K (TCCN: PHYS 2425) Physics 103M (lab) Transfer applicants must also complete four technical courses (math, physics, chemistry, biology, geology, computer science and engineering). The courses listed above may apply toward the four technical courses. Refer to the Automated Transfer Equivalency online database for details about how the courses you are taking, or plan to take, will transfer. Only courses listed in the student's engineering degree program, or equivalent courses accepted by the department chair and approved by the dean, may be counted toward an engineering degree. A course may therefore be accepted for transfer credit but not be applicable toward an engineering degree Because significant differences may exist between courses that appear to be very similar, students who have questions about the requirements of a specific degree plan should contact the appropriate departmental advising office. Special note for Electrical and Computer Engineering students: A maximum of 25 semester credit hours in electrical engineering transfer courses may be counted toward a degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering. Additional Resources Common Transfer Credit Issues Engineering Scholarships Instructional Assessment and Evaluation Office of Student Financial Services Visit UT and Texas Engineering Contact Engineering Student Services Location: Engineering Education and Research Center (EER), 2.848 Street Address: 2501 Speedway Email: studentservices@engr.utexas.edu Phone: 512-471-4321 Hours: Monday-Friday, 8 AM - 4:30 PM Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin