Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Academics Admissions Overview Undergraduate Graduate Financial Support Prospective Student Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Engineering Honors Program The Cockrell School of Engineering offers a select group of students the opportunity to participate in the Engineering Honors Program (EHP), a non-curriculum based program which awards merit scholarships to first-year participants. Additionally, participants can be considered for honors housing. The Engineering Honors Program considers all engineering majors for participation in the program after admission decisions have been determined by the UT Office of Admissions. Because the Engineering Honors Program is not a degree program, an invitation to participate in the EHP in no way communicates an admission decision for one of the Honors Degree Programs listed below. How to Apply First-year Students First-year selections are made by reviewing the standard materials required to apply for admission to the university. No additional essays or application materials are required, but submitting an expanded résumé is recommended. If you would like to be considered for the Engineering Honors Program, please acknowledge your interest on your admission application. If you decide to apply for the EHP after you submit your admission application, you may complete the external honors program application by December 1. This external application is not required unless you can no longer access the acknowledgement question in your admission application. Students who use either method to apply will be considered equally. To view your application status, review the Honors tab in MyStatus. It takes 1-2 days for your status to update after you complete the application. The Cockrell School mails invitation letters January through March. Current Students If you are not invited to join the program as a first-year student, you could be invited to apply later if you meet the following criteria: Completed at least 24 hours in residence in the Cockrell School Have at least 60 credit hours remaining in your degree program Rank in the top 10 percent of your class and degree program Honors Thesis Some students in the Engineering Honors Program complete an optional thesis at the culmination of an undergraduate research experience. Areas of research examined by engineering honors students are often the fields leading to their careers after graduation or their areas of interest in graduate school. In an informal academic conference, engineering honors students give short presentations about their theses. Students who complete their theses receive special honors designation on their transcripts and recognition during their commencement ceremonies. Honors Degree Programs In addition to indicating an interest in the Cockrell School’s EHP, first-year students can select any of the following degree programs below as a major choice when applying for freshman admission. Admission into one of these degree programs does not convey an invitation to participate in the EHP. For additional information, please visit Applying to Honors on the UT Admissions website. Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) Honors Program The ECE Honors Program provides a rigorous, challenging and faster-pace curriculum and environment to a cohort of ECE students. Electrical and Computer Engineering & Business (ECB) The Texas Honors Electrical and Computer Engineering and Business is an integrated degree program that allows you to earn degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering and Business in a shorter time. Engineering and Plan II Honors Program Students interested in pursuing challenging liberal arts courses while also pursuing a degree in engineering can consider applying to both Engineering and the Plan II Honors Program. Interested students should apply to one Engineering major (first choice) and to Liberal Arts/Plan II (second choice) in order to be considered for admission to both programs. Students must also submit the additional Plan II Honors Program application to fulfill admission requirements to that specific honors program. Admissions decisions for both Engineering and the Plan II Honors Programs are separate, and admission into one does not guarantee admission into the other. Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin