Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us Academics Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Executive Education Texas Engineering Executive Education (TxEEE), the Cockrell School's professional development division, provides working engineers with top-tier continuing and professional education and real-world training that accelerates career development and strengthens companies. Our executive master's degree programs, graduate certificate programs and professional development programs are led by Cockrell School faculty members and industry experts to deliver results-based programs with immediately applicable tools. Learn more and explore all TxEEE offerings Master's Programs Engineering Management — On-site and online The engineering management M.S. degree is designed to meet the growing demand for technical leaders who have strong engineering, science and technical backgrounds and who must demonstrate an understanding of management and financial issues. Available on-site one weekend a month with synchronous online participation options available. Learn more Mechanical Engineering — 100% online The mechanical engineering master’s degree allows students to earn a world-class education from anywhere in the world. Students gain immediately applicable industry-related knowledge that will prepare you to solve engineering design problems with innovative solutions. Available 100% online. Learn more Software Engineering — On-site The software engineering concentration of the electrical and computer engineering M.S. degree provides tools to deliver robust, advanced, on-time and in-budget software systems. Available on-site one weekend per month. Learn more Graduate Certificate Programs Petroleum Engineering Data Analytics — 100% online The Petroleum Engineering Data Analytics Graduate Certificate is designed for working petroleum engineers who want to master the ability to use analytics on the massive amounts of data being generated in the industry to better inform decision-making. Course topics include stochastic methods for reservoir modeling, subsurface machine learning and high-performance computing. Available 100% online. Learn more Mechanical Engineering Controls — 100% online The Mechanical Engineering Controls Graduate Certificate is designed for working mechanical and petroleum engineers who want to boost their skills in the control and optimization of processes and systems. Course topics include statistical methods; modeling, simulation and control; and automatic control. Available 100% online. Learn more Professional Development Programs Professional Development Courses Courses are currently being administered in a convenient online format and cover a wide range of interdisciplinary fields. Choose from a variety of topics such as engineering leadership, nanotechnology, cybersecurity and more. Learn more Professional Certificates Our professional certificate programs are developed with an engineers' specific challenges and contexts in mind. Students will gain the tools and skills to set themselves apart from the crowd in a technical engineering environment. Choose from a variety of topics such as nanotechnology, big data, offshore structures and engineering leadership. Learn more Custom Corporate Training Courses If your organization is in need of a custom training course, we can help assess your training objectives and work with you to develop a program tailored specifically to fit your organization's needs. Let our staff of industry and academic experts get your team refreshed and rolling now. Learn more Conference Services Let us coordinate your next conference. We provide planning and hosting services for all types of engineering conferences within the Austin area. From logistics to marketing assistance, our conference planning services cover everything you need. Learn more Additional Training Petroleum Extension (PETEX) The PETEX program trains industry professionals at all experience levels around the globe in new technologies, cutting-edge equipment and current industry standards and practices that help build a more competent, prepared workforce. Learn more Health and Safety Training Center In addition to providing safety compliance training for the mining industry, the Health and Safety Training Center also provides safety and health training for Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) compliance, electrical safety, certification exam prep for safety professionals, MSHA Underground Mine Safety compliance and expanded First Aid/CPR offerings. Learn more Contact Texas Engineering Executive Education executive.engr.utexas.edu Street Address: 2613 Speedway Email: execed@engr.utexas.edu Phone: 512-471-3506 Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin