Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Accreditation Facilities History Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us About About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Facilities Sparked by the launch of UT’s Engineering Facilities Master Plan a decade ago, the Cockrell School of Engineering is in the midst of a comprehensive facilities expansion and renewal. Most recently, the 430,000-square-foot Engineering Education and Research Center opened its doors in fall 2017, providing the Texas Engineering community with a world-class hub for multidisciplinary innovation. And with the opening of the renovated Aerospace Engineering Building, construction of the new Energy Engineering Building and potential renovations to various student and lab spaces across campus, the Cockrell School aims to provide engineering facilities that are among the best in the nation. Main Campus Facilities Engineering Education and Research Center (EER) Home to all Engineering Student Services and Programs and the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 2501 Speedway Austin, TX 78712 Gary L. Thomas Energy Engineering Building (GLT) Home to energy-related teaching, research and collaboration 210 E. 24th St. Austin, TX 78712 Aerospace Engineering Building (ASE) Home to the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics 2617 Wichita St. Austin, TX 78712 Biomedical Engineering Building (BME) Home to the Department of Biomedical Engineering 107 W. Dean Keeton St. Austin, TX 78712 Chemical and Petroleum Engineering Building, West Entrance (CPE) Home to the Hildebrand Department of Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering and the McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering 200 E. Dean Keeton St. Austin, TX 78712 Continuing Engineering Education (CEE) Home to Texas Engineering Executive Education 2613 Speedway Austin, TX 78712 Engineering Education and Research Center (EER) Home to the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 2501 Speedway Austin, TX 78712 Engineering Teaching Center II (ETC) Home to the J. Mike Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering 204 E. Dean Keeton St. Austin, TX 78712 Ernest Cockrell Jr. Hall (ECJ) Home to the Cockrell School of Engineering Dean’s Office and the Department of Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering 301 E. Dean Keeton St. Austin, TX 78712 J.J. Pickle Research Campus Buildings Advanced Computing Center (ACB) 10505 Exploration Way Austin, TX 78758 Center for Water and Environment (CWE) 2899 James Hart Trail Austin, TX 78758 Concrete Durability Center (CMR) 10210 E H Sellards Rd. Austin, TX 78758 Electrical and Mechanical Engineering Research Center (EME) 10500 Exploration Way Austin, TX 78758 Experimental Aerodynamics (ASR) 3215 Clyde Davis Trail Austin, TX 78758 Ferguson Structural Laboratory (FSL) 9900 Neils Thompson Dr. Austin, TX 78758 Microelectronics Research Center (MER) 10100 Harry Ransom Trail Austin, TX 78758 Nuclear Engineering Teaching Lab (NEL) 11131 Creativity Trail Austin, TX 78758 West Pickle Research Building (WPR) 3925 W. Braker Lane Austin, TX 78759 Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin