Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us Dean Search Dean Search Overview About Us About UT About Austin Applications, Inquiries and Nominations Search Committee Dean Search Pause Video The University of Texas at Austin, a member of the Association for American Universities (AAU) and one of the nation’s premier centers for academic excellence, seeks a visionary, strategic, and entrepreneurial leader to serve as its next dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering. Reporting to the executive vice president and provost, the dean serves as the chief academic and administrative officer of the school and will set an ambitious course for the Cockrell School that continues its trajectory of excellence and impact. The Cockrell School of Engineering has long been recognized as one of the world’s top institutions for engineering education, research, and innovation. It comprises seven academic departments that are home to more than 6,000 undergraduate students, 2,100 graduate students, 290 faculty, and roughly 600 staff members. It supports more than a dozen major research institutes and centers of excellence and maintains strong collaborations with other colleges and research organizations across UT Austin’s campuses, especially in the sciences and business. The Dell Medical School, launched in 2016, has expanded the school’s opportunities for collaboration and interdisciplinary research, education, and entrepreneurship programs in medicine and health care. Currently, the extramural funding through grants and contracts totals $278 million annually, while the academic core budget is $85 million. The Cockrell School endowment is over $800 million and includes 75 endowed chairs and 81 endowed professorships, providing a strong resource base for investing in academic excellence. The school seeks an outstanding scholar, leader, and administrator who is both inclusive and decisive to serve as the chief academic and administrative officer. The dean will work with the community to advance a shared vision for the future and a long-term strategic plan to guide the Cockrell School’s growth and development, leveraging entrepreneurial opportunities available in the dynamic Austin ecosystem. Success in the role will require an individual who can inspire and unify the community around priorities, continue to attract world-class faculty and students to the school, and empower a dedicated and talented staff to propel the Cockrell School forward as it continues to develop solutions that advance society, drive economic progress, and improve the quality of life around the world. A passionate champion for the educational mission and student success, the incoming dean must be an exceptional communicator who is skillful at building relationships with internal and external partners, possesses the ability to represent the school and engineering profession compellingly to stakeholders and donors, and demonstrates an uncompromising commitment to advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion. Generating private philanthropy and industry support is an important component of the dean’s responsibilities, and the dean leads a highly successful fundraising program. UT Austin is engaged in an international search for candidates. Review of applications will begin on 28 February 2022, although nominations and applications will be accepted until the position is filled. It is anticipated that the dean will be appointed with a start date of 1 August 2022. Applications, Inquiries and Nominations » Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering The dean is the chief executive of the school and oversees all areas of its mission. The dean also serves as the school’s primary leadership representative to alumni, the Engineering Advisory Board, government stakeholders, industry, and other partners. As such, the dean is responsible for promoting a culture of innovation and advancing the operations and services of the school through strategic decisions regarding personnel, general administration and management, budget, academic programs, and development functions. The dean also serves as an essential institutional leader of the university’s leadership team and reports to the executive vice president and provost. Direct reports to the dean include the associate dean for academic affairs; associate dean for research; associate dean for diversity, equity, and inclusion; assistant dean for student services; executive director of Texas Engineering Executive Education; executive director for communications and marketing; chief development officer; chief business officer; and director of information technology. Leadership Opportunities and Challenges for the Next Dean The transformational opportunities identified for the Cockrell School over the coming years include, but are not limited to, the following areas: Provide strategic vision to continue the Cockrell School’s leadership and influence The dean will engage the community in advancing a strategic plan that continues to put the Cockrell School at the forefront of research, education, and impact. As the university launches its new strategic plan, the Cockrell School is poised to launch a parallel process that identifies areas for investment and development that secure its preeminence in the engineering field. While creating a distinctive plan, the dean will harness the remarkable energy of the Austin region and leverage the advantages of being situated in a hub of innovation and startup activity. Ensure the recruitment and retention of exceptional faculty In close collaboration with departmental leadership, the dean will support efforts to identify, attract, and retain diverse and talented faculty members who increase the stature and profile of departments and the school overall. The dean will encourage the recruitment of leading scholars, enable joint appointments, and facilitate opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration. Promoting a culture in which all faculty members (tenured, tenure-track, and professional track) can thrive and achieve their career goals and are recognized for their scholarly impact, educational excellence, and engagement with industry is essential. Advance the institutional commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging The Cockrell School of Engineering is committed to diversity in its many forms and aims to promote an inclusive and equitable environment with a strong sense of belonging for all students, faculty, and staff. Recognizing that individuals from all groups have not historically had the same access to engineering education, the school has developed a range of programs and initiatives to increase representation and improve climate outlined in the current DEI Plan. The dean is expected to continue and accelerate these efforts. Support infrastructure and facilities to enable pioneering education and research The school is in the midst of a comprehensive facilities expansion and renewal effort, which has been supported generously by The University of Texas System, The University of Texas at Austin, and philanthropic gifts. The 430,000-square-foot Engineering Education and Research Center opened in 2017, and the 184,000-square-foot lab-intensive, multidisciplinary Gary L. Thomas Energy Engineering Building is nearing completion and will open during the spring of 2022. In addition, programming and schematic design is underway for the Engineering Discovery Building. The new dean will oversee design and construction of the Engineering Discovery Building and lead efforts to enhance facilities on the main campus as well as at the J.J. Pickle Research Campus, the home of many of the school’s research centers. Empower educational innovation and excellence Outstanding undergraduate and graduate students are drawn to the Cockrell School’s experiential learning environment and focus on real-world problems. The Cockrell School also boasts innovative programs dedicated to student success, such as the Ramshorn Scholars Program. The dean must value the educational mission and ensure that the Cockrell School is at the forefront of curricular and pedagogical innovation. Lead school operations and empower a high-performing staff The dean oversees a large and complex operation, which depends on the contributions of a dedicated team of staff. A leader needs to be attentive to staff retention, especially in light of increased competition for staff regionally and nationally, as well as the cost of living in Austin. The dean will work closely with departmental leadership to invest in key staff functions and positions to ensure a cohesive, efficient, and high-performing unit. A continual emphasis on internal communication is a key component of motivating the entire school community, helping all to feel included in the progress toward its goals and objectives. Elevate the visibility of the Cockrell School; forge strong relationships with alumni, donors, government stakeholders, and the Engineering Advisory Board; and lead the school’s fundraising efforts The dean will be a champion and advocate for the Cockrell School to a range of external audiences, working with leaders in industry and government and cultivating relationships in the Austin community, and with national and international constituents. As a major contributor to economic innovation in Texas, the dean will position the school to be a destination for state and national investments in pioneering work on global challenges. The dean will also continue a strong record of fundraising and philanthropy to enable educational innovations, outreach and access programs, and renovations of facilities, and to endow and promote large research programs. Qualifications and Characteristics of the Dean The Cockrell School seeks a creative and energetic leader with an outstanding record of scholarly achievement, high emotional intelligence, the utmost ethical standards, a collegial style, and a vision for engineering that will inspire the Cockrell School community. While no single candidate will have all the ideal qualifications, UT Austin seeks candidates with the following qualifications and abilities: An intellectual leader; a distinguished teacher, scholar, entrepreneur, or innovator; an earned doctorate and a distinguished record of academic excellence that will command the respect of colleagues; credentials that qualify for appointment at the full professor level; A demonstrated track record of enhancing diversity, equity, and inclusion and improving the culture and climate for students, staff, and faculty; Leadership experience as a successful academic administrator, such as service as a department chair or center director; the ability to make difficult decisions and prioritize; experience with faculty recruitment and retention; and facilitating promotion and tenure processes; Proven ability to cultivate and develop staff and an aptitude to form an effective leadership team; An astute understanding of academic finances and experience establishing budget priorities and serving as a responsible steward of resources; A demonstrated passion for students, research, and service and a keen sense of the trends and developments at top engineering programs; An excellent collaborator who can partner with other deans and administrators, department chairs, faculty, staff and students; Record of developing philanthropic goals and securing major gifts from individuals, corporations, and/or foundations; Established connections to industry and the ability to create opportunities for faculty and students with corporate partners; An exceptional communicator who can inspire internal and external constituencies to attract partners to support new initiatives; A record that demonstrates the highest degree of integrity, transparency, honesty, and fairness. Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin