Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Student Organizations Leadership Development Research and Projects Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us Student Life Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Co-ops and Internships Undergraduate engineering students can gain significant technical experience in industry before graduation through both internships and the Cooperative Engineering Education Program, or Co-op, an experiential learning program. Students who participate in engineering internships and the Co-op Program are able to explore career interests and have a competitive advantage when looking for a full-time position upon graduation. Co-op Co-op students complete at least two semesters of full-time work with the same employer, receive one hour of letter-grade credit per semester and earn a competitive salary. By integrating multiple semesters of engineering work experience with on-campus study, co-op students enhance their classroom knowledge through practical application of theories to real-world problems. Co-op students explore specific interests within their academic discipline and refine their post-graduation goals. At the same time, co-op allows students to earn a competitive salary, which can be used to help finance their education. Returning to the same employer for subsequent experiences gives students access to more challenging and in-depth projects while building a long-term relationship with the employer. It also allows co-op employers to evaluate potential permanent hires over an extended period of time, provides a continual pipeline of bright engineers and a cost-effective method for completing engineering tasks. I truly believe that doing a co-op is one of the most important things a student can do to enhance their education and marketability after graduation. Current students: For Co-op Application specifics, visit ENGR Direct Students. Employers: For more information, visit our employer page for Co-ops and Internships. List of Co-op Employers Advanced Micro Devices Anheuser-Busch, Inc. ARM Ascend Performance Materials Axiall Corporation Baker Engineering and Risk Consultants Buro Happold Celanese Ltd. Center for Transportation Research CenterPoint Energy Central Intelligence Agency Chatsworth Products, Inc. Cintra US Cirrus Logic Cisco Systems Cummins Inc. DETEKT Digital Diagnostic Device Solutions Disney Worldwide Services Dow Chemical U.S.A. DuPont Company Ecolab Emerson Process Management Eurecat US ExxonMobil Fairmount Minerals Ferrovial Freese & Nichols Inc. GAF Materials Corporation Genentech General Electric Company Halliburton Company HDR Engineering Inc. Hewlett Packard IBM Corporation Ingersoll Rand Intel Corporation Johnson & Johnson KCI Kimberly-Clark Corporation L-3 Communications Integrated Systems Lubrizol LyondellBasell Industries Marathon Oil Company Microsemi Corporation MKS Instruments Nalco Nalco Energy Services LP NASA - Johnson Space Center NASA- Marshall Space Flight Center Norriseal Novaspect Procter & Gamble/Research Provenance Consulting Renovis Surgical Rockwell Automation Sage Environmental Schlumberger TIC International TIC Testronics Toyota Motor Manufacturing TUV Rheinland Universal Lighting Technologies VALSPAR Vencorex Chemicals Internships An internship is an opportunity for a student of any classification to gain valuable, paid work experience. Interns work full-time during the summer and commit to work with an employer for one summer only. Students may apply to work with a different employer each summer to expand their horizons even more. As early as the summer after their freshman year, students can begin an internship with an employer. Sophomores and juniors are especially encouraged to build a good resume by gaining internship experience. In addition to exposure to technical training, interns gain knowledge of an employer work environment, office etiquette and typical day-to-day challenges and projects. These experiences offer short-term and long-term gains. Students earn a salary, gain professional experience to complement their academic studies and explore career interests within their majors. When they graduate and seek permanent employment, their resumes reflect industry experience, giving them a competitive advantage. Often, students receive permanent job offers from employers for which they have interned. Benefits of Internships Enhance engineering education with work experience Explore career interests within field of study Earn a competitive salary Refine job search skills Network with corporate employees and fellow students Become familiar with the corporate environment Learn about employers and organizational culture before graduation Assess interest in specific engineering fields and majors How to Get Involved Register with the Engineering Career Assistance Center (ECAC) and create a resume Participate in on-campus interviews Attend career fairs and information sessions Network with recruiters and fellow students Participate in on-campus recruiting Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin