Skip to main content News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give SearchSearch Search Search ☰ Search Home About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Give xClose Menu Home About Overview Leadership Mission and Vision Facts and Rankings Program Rankings Program Enrollments and Degrees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Annual Report Climate Survey Diversity Committees Resources Programs and Initiatives Contact the Cockrell School DEI Office Faculty Directory Faculty Technology Studio Openings Awards National Medals of Science and Technology Accreditation Facilities History About the Cockrell Family Brand Resources Contact Us Academics Overview Departments Undergraduate Education Majors Minors and Certificates Academic Advising Student Success Initiatives Study Abroad Short-Term Programs Semester-Exchange Programs Funding and Planning Graduate Education Programs Certificates Graduate Coordinators and Advisors Dual Degrees Executive Education Admissions Overview Undergraduate Engineering Honors Program New Student Orientation External Transfer Internal Transfer Calculus Readiness Requirement Graduate Financial Support Scholarships and Aid Graduate Funding Tuition Waivers Prospective Student Info Sessions Prospective Undergraduate Info Sessions Virtual Visit Research Overview Areas of Impact Strategic Research Plan Human Health Manufacturing Energy, Environment and Sustainability Intelligent Systems and Human-Machine Symbiosis Materials Complex Systems and Networks Research Centers Bridging Barriers Texas Innovation Center Student Life Overview First-Year Experience Career Services Career Fairs Co-ops and Internships Externships Salaries and Statistics Info for Employers Student Organizations Leadership Development The LeaderShape Institute Engineering Ambassador Program Research and Projects Undergraduate Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Connect Overview Alumni Stay Connected Distinguished Alumni Awards Advisory Boards About Our Alumni Industry Engagement Student Recruitment Research Student Projects and Programs Professional Education K-12 Outreach Giving Areas to Support Ways to Give Virtual Visit Contact Us Texas Engineer Magazine The emerging new field of surgineering, the story of John W. Hargis, 6G explained, sights and sounds of a campus back to life — all of this and much more! Read the Latest Issue Pause Video 16 Undergraduate and Graduate Programs Ranked in the Top 10 4 National Medal Winners 1 Nobel Prize Recipient An enzyme variant created by engineers and scientists at The University of Texas at Austin can break down environment-throttling plastics that typically take centuries to degrade in just a matter of hours to days. This discovery, published today in Nature, could help solve one of the world’s most pressing environmental problems: what to do with the billions of tons of plastic waste piling up in landfills and polluting our natural lands and water. The enzyme has the potential to supercharge recycling on a large scale that would allow major industries to reduce their environmental impact by recovering and reusing plastics at the molecular level. Read more: Plastic-eating Enzyme Could Eliminate Billions of Tons of Landfill Waste Spotlights Happening now at Texas Engineering Working Together to Solve Society's Most Challenging Problems Find Out How Earn Your Ph.D. in One of the Coolest Cities in the U.S. Learn More Celebrating Cockrell's Black Excellence Watch Video Cockrell School of Engineering Dean Search Learn More @cockrellschool Professor ➡️ department chair ➡️ center director ➡️ interim dean ➡️ DEAN. Roger Bonnecaze, chemical engineer and internationally recognized expert in rheology and nanomanufacturing modeling and simulation, has been named dean... @cockrellschool We are not at all surprised to see these two outstanding Texas Engineering faculty members make Texas Exes' 2022 Texas 10 list. One thing @utbiomedical professor Mia Markey has always tried... @cockrellschool Establishing the new John W. Hargis Lounge. Creating a database of alumni available to help current students. Winning the National Championship in rowing. ^^^ All just a handful of things these... @cockrellschool “Being a female at NASA during the Artemis era is empowering and inspirational. For the first time in history, we are planning to send women farther than they have ever gone,... @cockrellschool 🤘🤘🤘Let’s goooo! U.S. News & World Report ranks our graduate engineering program #6 in the nation with 8 of our engineering disciplines ranking in the top 10. Read the full announcement in... @cockrellschool Surgery + engineering... surgineering? This new, cross-disciplinary field sees engineers working closely with surgeons to solve problems in the operating room by innovating existing tech and creating new tools, devices, and... @cockrellschool First hint of spring peeking through 🙌 3 more days until SPRING BREAK! ... @cockrellschool Nobody: Absolutely no one: @texasrocketlab: Let’s put a three-story rocket in the EER. #WhatStartsHere ... @cockrellschool TOMORROW. New teaching labs, study spaces, a lecture hall with the perfect view of the Tower and DKR. Take your first steps in the new Gary L. Thomas Energy Engineering Building... News All News Versatile ‘Nanocrystal Gel’ Could Enable Advances in Energy, Defense and Telecommunications New applications in energy, defense and telecommunications could receive a boost after a team at The University of Texas at Austin created a new type of “nanocrystal gel” — a...Keep Reading 2 Professors and 2 Alumni Elected to National Academy of Engineering The National Academy of Engineering (NAE) announced today that Al Bovik, professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Karen Willcox, professor in the Department of Aerospace Engineering... Keep Reading Cockrell School Celebrates Naming of the Sam and Hema Kumar Construction Engineering and Project Management Program On December 10, the Cockrell School of Engineering hosted a celebratory event to commemorate the naming of the Sam and Hema Kumar Construction Engineering and Project Management Program (CEPM) in the Department of Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering. The Kumar... Keep Reading Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Stay up to date with Cockrell School news! Subscribe to Our Newsletter About Academics Admissions Research Student Life Connect News ENGR Direct Contact Us Department of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics Department of Biomedical Engineering McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil, Architectural & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Hildebrand Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering © The University of Texas at Austin