Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search About the College No matter what kind of engineering you're interested in, the College of Engineering probably has a program for you. Engineering offers more than 50 different degree tracks at the bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral levels, and its schools are consistently ranked among U.S. News & World Report's top 10. Located in Atlanta Located in one of America's most vibrant cities, the College combines the resources of a major university with the benefits of an urban campus, giving students the tools they need to chase their ambitions. With dozens of degree programs across eight schools, the College has built a strong reputation in the United States and abroad, and graduates leave with skills, knowledge, and global savvy for a world increasingly dependent on engineering. Preparing Tomorrow's Leaders The College prepares its students not just for jobs in engineering but for the responsibilities of leadership. Its focuses on innovation and entrepreneurship give students an edge, allowing them to create inventions, start businesses, and design solutions to global problems – all before graduation. Alumni go on to careers across all walks of engineering, as well as in professions like law, medicine, business and public policy. Educating Global Citizens Georgia Tech sends more than 1,200 students abroad each year through exchange programs and faculty-led trips, meaning students in the College have dozens of opportunities for international travel. They can also pursue internships and co-ops abroad, earning work experience and foreign-language skills that will stand out on resumes. Additionally, Georgia Tech boasts a satellite campus in France and several joint degree programs with other universities (some created just for engineers). Giving the Best Return on Investment Engineering is constantly ranked among the highest-paying college majors, and Georgia Tech is one of the best universities at which to study it. The Institute offers excellent returns on investment to all its students, whether they come from Georgia or elsewhere. The Vision of the College Georgia Tech’s College of Engineering believes that transformational research and education are fundamental to human progress. Our aspiration is to generate talent, ideas and solutions with unmatched impact and scale. We lead in defining and solving the most complex problems facing our world, today and tomorrow. Our collective purpose is to inspire and prepare a community of inclusive and community-driven engineering students and faculty. And our research efforts seek to find solutions to complex global issues through rigorous engineering practices. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Year in Review 2019-2020 coe-ar_19-20_webfinal.pdf File last updated Dec 16, 2021. Strategic Direction coe_strategicplan_2021_web2.pdf File last updated Dec 16, 2021. This file requires a PDF reader, such as Adobe Acrobat Reader, to download and view PDF files. Most web browser applications support viewing PDFs. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education