Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search The College of Engineering Virtual Tour Do you want to see an inside look at the College of Engineering at Georgia Tech? Don't worry - we have you covered! Join undergraduate engineering students Andy and Emily on a virtual tour to visit several engineering labs and makerspaces across the College. You can view the full-length tour below or scroll down to find a particular area on campus that you want to see. Enjoy your tour! Tour the College Join undergraduate engineering students Andy and Emily four a fun look inside some of the coolest labs and makerspaces within the College of Engineering at Georgia Tech. We cover a lot of ground here in a short amount of time so try to keep up with the group! Student Competition Center Take an in-depth tour inside the Student Competition Center at Georgia Tech where student teams including RoboJackets, GT Motorsports, GT Off-Road, HyTech Racing, EcoCAR, GT Solar Racing, and Wreck Racing build their projects! Any student at Georgia Tech can join these teams. The only problem is deciding which team to join! Interdisciplinary Design Commons Get a glimpse of the Interdisciplinary Design Commons (IDC) at Georgia Tech! The IDC is a 15,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art makerspace that is located in the rotunda of the Van Leer Building, right in the heart of Georgia Tech's campus. Catering specifically to electronics and computer engineering design and innovation, it represents the largest makerspace of its kind in the nation. The IDC offers students of all majors a hands-on learning environment where they can work together to solve technology design challenges. The space features a woodshop, 3D printers, laser cutters, a plasma cutter, function generators, power supplies, soldering irons, computers, and embedded systems equipment. Flowers Invention Studio The Invention Studio is a student run organization located in the Flower's Invention Studio. We support ALL students, staff, and faculty in building their dream project, whether it’s for research, personal or academic usage. Our tools are 100% free to use. NEST Lab Get a quick Glimpse of the NanoEngineered Systems and Transport (NEST) Lab directed by Dr. Baratunde Cola at Georgia Tech. Autonomous and Connected Transportation Lab Sit in the driver's seat of the new car simulator at the Autonomous and Connected Transportation Lab directed by Dr. Srinivas Peeta at Georgia Tech. PoWeR Lab Take a tour of the Physiology of Wearable Robotics Lab (PoWeR Lab) directed by Dr. Greg Sawicki at Georgia Tech. Robotarium Take a tour of the Robotarium at Georgia Tech! This was the first remote access robotics test bed that could be used by anyone in the world. Wind tunnel Take a tour of the closed-looped wind tunnel at Georgia Tech! SMART Lab Learn what research is conducted at the SMART lab directed by Dr. Nazanin Bassiri-Gharb at Georgia Tech. Structural Engineering & Materials Lab Get a glimpse of an experiment in the Structural Engineering & Materials Laboratory directed by Dr. Lauren Stewart at Georgia Tech. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education