Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Diversity and Inclusivity Georgia Tech is proud to be one of the most diverse universities in the world. We graduate more female engineers than any other college in the nation, while also being among the annual leaders in graduating Black engineers. However, we must do more. It is our responsibility to recruit more students, faculty, and staff from different backgrounds, interests, and perspectives. We must then develop and support them to become leaders in their respective engineering fields. The College of Engineering is committed to a diverse and inclusive community. This means we must ensure that each of our students, faculty, and staff is educated about all issues of diversity, equity and inclusion. We embrace persons of every race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, background, beliefs, and ability. We also dedicate ourselves toward addressing and fighting discrimination on our campus and in our lives. This includes racism, racial bias, and racial injustice. Our shared vision is one of social justice, opportunity, community, and equity. The College is consistently pursuing a mission that creates a community that exemplifies the best in us all, ensuring a better, more equitable, and sustainable future for everyone. We believe that our impact must reach beyond the classroom, research labs, our campus, and the technology we create. We must improve the human condition where injustice lives. We will continue to work to understand, value, and celebrate all people as we work to create an inclusive educational and work environment that welcomes all. This is essential to our success. It is essential for our world. College of Engineering Resources Center for Engineering Education and Diversity (CEED) CEED collaborates with Georgia Tech offices and student organizations, alumni, national organizations, corporations, the K-12 community, and other universities to create and support a diversified engineering workforce. CEED's eight programs reach 40 percent of Yellow Jackets every year, while also working with 3,000 K-12 students annually as part of its commitment to increasing engineering awareness. Women in Engineering (WIE) WIE is dedicated to recruiting top female students into engineering majors. Once students are enrolled, WIE works to ensure the highest level of retention by fostering an environment that encourages curiosity, creativity, and intellectual and personal growth. The program also strives to redefine the engineering profession as a positive societal force with the potential to improve the quality of life through the creation of world changing technologies. College of Engineering Student Groups Georgia Tech Society of Women Engineers Georgia Tech Society of Black Engineers Georgia Tech Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (Undergraduates) Georgia Tech Latino Organization of Graduate Engineers Campus Resources Institute Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion Staff Diversity, Inclusion and Engagement Campus-wide DEI Events Diversity and Inclusion Education and Training Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Program Georgia Tech DEI Council ADA Compliance ADVANCE Program LGBTQIA Resource Center Gender Equity Initiatives African American Male Initiative Black Student Experience Task Force Women of Color Initiative Challenge Summer Program Edge Mentoring Program Focus Graduate Education Program Office of Hispanic Initiatives OMED Featured stories A Framework for Equity in Energy and Environmental Engineering 16 May 2022 Researchers create process to integrate systemic equity to allow for more consistent and inclusive modeling. Mitchell Walker to lead College’s Undergraduate and Graduate Academic Programs 04 April 2022 AE professor to serve as associate dean of academics. Echoes of Each Other 24 March 2022 As part of Women’s History Month, women at Georgia Tech talk about the role mentorship has played in their experience working, learning, and researching. Georgia Tech News Center CEED Puts Down New Roots 11 March 2022 The Center for Engineering Education and Diversity moves to a new, permanent location after 17 years of assisting students. Lillian Tso Receives Brooke Owens Fellowship 23 February 2022 Mechanical Engineering undergraduate granted paid internship, access to executive-level mentors, and a lifelong professional network. George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Pagination Current page 1 Next page College of Engineering DEI Council The College of Engineering Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Council was established in 2017 to identify, raise awareness, and improve policies and practices related to DEI. The group counsels the dean, while developing and proposing initiatives intended to harness the College’s intellectual diversity and promote a culture of inclusion, equity, and belonging. The committee’s efforts align with the Institute and CoE strategic plans. The Council meets monthly and includes faculty from each of the College’s eight schools, as well as students and staff. In addition to the College’s council, the schools have also created their own DEI committees. Ivanska V. Báez Undergraduate Student - Aerospace Engineering Tracey A. Boothe-Miller Academic Advising Manager, Undergraduate Programs - Civil & Environmental Engineeringr Sonja Brankovic Graduate Research Assistant - Mechanical Engineering Caitlin Buro Development Associate María Coronel Postdoctoral Fellow - Mechanical Engineering LaJauna F. Ellis Director of Admin & Strategic Initiatives - College of Engineering Dean’s Office Martha A. Grover Professor and Associate Chair for Graduate Studies - Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Tequila A. L. Harris Associate Professor - Mechanical Engineering Omer Inan Associate Professor and Linda J. and Mark C. Smith Chair - Electrical and Computer Engineering Melissa Lambeth Kemp Associate Professor - Biomedical Engineering at Georgia Tech and Emory Mark D. Losego Assistant Professor - Materials Science & Engineering Martin Maldovan Associate Professor - Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Gabriel A. Rincón-Mora Professor - Electrical and Computer Engineering Sushree Jagriti Sahoo Graduate Student - Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Robert Benjamin Simon Academic Professional - Civil & Environmental Engineering Alicia Margaret Sudol Research Engineer II - Aerospace Systems Design Lab Iris Tien Williams Family Associate Professor - Civil & Environmental Engineering Mitchell L. R. Walker II, Ph.D. Associate Dean of Academic Affairs Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Next page Next Last page Last Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education