Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Future Graduate Engineers A graduate education from the College of Engineering will lead you deeper into your academic interests, broadening your skills and boosting your career prospects. Boasting top-ranked graduate programs throughout its eight schools, the College of Engineering offers lots of paths to explore the challenges of engineering. With 23 master's degrees and 18 doctoral degrees to choose from, prospective students can tailor their graduate experiences to their personal academic and career goals. Why choose Georgia Tech's College of Engineering? U.S. News & World Report places the College of Engineering's overall graduate program at No. 8 among the country's major research universities, with all 11 graduate programs placing in the top 10 in their respective fields. The strong showing is bolstered by a world-class faculty of about 400 full-time members, who include National Academy of Engineering members and Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholars. Georgia Tech stands out as one of the world's top research universities, taking an interdisciplinary approach to addressing some of the society's most urgent issues. Are you ready for grad school? Earning an advanced engineering degree can reshape your career. Read the eBook to learn more about what you should consider before applying to graduate school. Discover the benefits of grad school Atlanta: An Affordable City Atlanta is an affordable city, boasting: Affordable housing Business and startup opportunities International Airport Home to Fortune 500 companies The cost of living index of Atlanta, GA (102) compares positively as compared to Philadelphia PA (113.5), Baltimore MD (117.1), Los Angeles CA (148.4), Boston MA (150.2), Seattle WA (155), San Francisco CA (196.7), New York NY (249), and Palo Alto CA (613.5). Research From energy and sustainable infrastructure to healthcare technology to the internet of things, researchers at Georgia Tech are tackling the most important and complex issues of the world today. Explore all research areas Wearable robotics research in the Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Ready to apply? If you are interested in a College of Engineering graduate program, you will apply through the individual school you are interested in by visiting their website. Learn more about our Schools Two researchers at work in the Institute for Materials (IMat), a component of the Georgia Tech Polymer Network (GTPN). Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education