Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Graduate Academics Dozens of degree options and a focus on interdisciplinary research make the College of Engineering an ideal setting for graduate studies. Research The teamwork at Georgia Tech is second to none. Scientists and engineers from various research areas, students, and partner organizations work together to find answers to some of society’s most challenging questions. With incredible labs and industry-leading faculty, it is no surprise that research at Georgia Tech makes the news routinely. An Engineer's Guide to Graduate School Engineers who want to pursue more education to further their career are faced with the option of earning an advanced engineering degree. Ultimately, the choice depends on the individual and their career aspirations. Download the eBook to hear from more engineers who were faced with the same decision. You’ll gain valuable advice on what to consider when planning your future. Graduate Programs For students who have already obtained a bachelor’s degree and are still yearning to learn more, research more, and discover more, Georgia Tech is the ideal setting for graduate studies. The College prepares graduate students for diverse careers in research, management, development, consulting, higher education and other fields. Home to 23 master's programs and 18 doctoral programs, the College offers top-caliber labs and abundant research opportunities, ensuring students complete their degrees with the experience they need. Recruitment and financial aid for our graduate programs are generally handled through our individual engineering schools (listed below) and their graduate programs, although a range of fellowships are offered through the Georgia Tech Office of Graduate Studies. Explore the graduate offerings in the College Questions? Contact Us. Mitchell L. R. Walker II, Ph.D. Associate Dean of Academic Affairs Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education