Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Home A Real-Life "Maverick" Shortly after graduation, James "Sandy" Winnefeld was a TOPGUN instructor and helped Hollywood make a cinematic classic. Discover the Real TOPGUN Blank Space (medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Students Win EcoCAR Mobility Challenge Georgia Tech beats 10 universities in the four-year, Dept. of Energy challenge, developing a connected hybrid vehicle. Meet the Team Blank Space (medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) An Evolution of Astrobiology Three researchers from the Colleges of Engineering and Sciences led astrobiology’s largest national conference focused on the origins of life. More About the Event The College of Engineering stands committed in the fight against racism, discrimination, racial bias, and racial injustice. Our shared vision is one of social justice, opportunity, community and equity. We believe that the diversity and contributions from all of our members are essential and make us who we are. We believe that our impact must reach beyond the classroom, research labs, our campus, and the technology we create, but must also improve the human condition where injustice lives. We will continue to work to understand, value, and celebrate all people and create an inclusive educational and work environment that welcomes all. Who We Are The Georgia Tech College of Engineering is creating tomorrow's leaders in engineering, science and technology. It offers internationally renowned programs in the heart of Atlanta, giving students opportunities for research and real-world experience, and its focus on innovation gives graduates an edge. The College awards more engineering degrees to women and underrepresented minorities than any other institution in the United States, and as part of a public university, it remains an excellent value for an elite engineering education. Explore Engineering Blank Space (medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Explore the College No matter what kind of engineering you're interested in, the College of Engineering probably has a program for you. Engineering offers more than 50 different degree tracks at the bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral levels, and its schools are consistently ranked among U.S. News & World Report's top 10. Prospective Undergraduates Learn more about applying to the College, scheduling a visit, and majoring in engineering. Graduate Degrees The College is home to 23 master's programs and 18 doctoral programs, offering best-in-class labs and research opportunities. Online Programs The College strives to bring knowledge to individuals all over the world, regardless of geo location. Entrepreneurship Turn your ideas into reality through design competitions, startup classes and more. Engineers and an MBA Working engineers who want to advance their education are faced with two potential options – an MBA or an advanced engineering degree. Diversity and Inclusivity Georgia Tech is proud to be one of the most diverse universities in the world. We graduate more female and Black engineers than any other college in the nation. However, we must do more. It is our responsibility to recruit more students, faculty, and staff from different backgrounds, interests, and perspectives. We must then develop and support them to become leaders in their respective engineering fields. Blank Space (medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Recent News ECE Program Aimed at Strengthening Student Moral and Community Building 17 May 2022 ECE Cares will be incorporated throughout the many levels of the School by reinforcing existing initiatives and creating new ones. School of Electrical and Computer Engineering An Evolution of Astrobiology 12 May 2022 Georgia Tech to host NASA, AGU, and the nation’s astrobiology community during renowned conference focused on the origins of life This Robot’s Gentle Grip Can Harvest Berries and Other Delicate Fruit 31 May 2022 Soft, flexible ‘hand’ developed by Assistant Professor Yue Chen and collaborators may lead to innovations in minimally invasive surgery. Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Student Team Wins Department of Energy EcoCAR Mobility Challenge 25 May 2022 Interdisciplinary team bests 10 other universities, transforming a 2019 Chevy Blazer into connected, hybrid vehicle Top Gun's Return Sparks Another Adrenaline Rush 24 May 2022 The Georgia Tech community gives insight into the real world of the film, its cultural significance, and the role of adrenaline in flight. Science Center’s Materials Exhibit Gets “Superhuman” Assistance from Georgia Tech 18 May 2022 MSE’s Mark Losego partners with Tellus Science Museum to teach the public about materials science Biomaterial Improves Islet Transplants for Treatment of Type 1 Diabetes 17 May 2022 Professor Andrés García led a team of researchers who are moving a hopeful treatment for type 1 diabetes closer to the clinic. Georgia Tech Research News News Archive Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Engage with the College Our Engineering Culture Through the Years See how the Georgia Tech College of Engineering has evolved over the years as we compare footage from "back in the day" to present day. A lot has changed over the years, but our mission to develop the nation's top engineers will always remain the same. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education