Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Schools of the College of Engineering When you decide to study engineering at Georgia Tech, you'll join not only the College of Engineering but one of its eight schools as well. The schools are organized according to disciplines, and each one houses several specialties in both graduate and undergraduate engineering. All of the College's schools are ranked in the top 10 of their kind by U.S. News & World Report. Your school will be the hub of your academic experience at Georgia Tech, and it's where you can find class information, explore career options, and seek advising. Our Schools Aerospace Engineering The Guggenheim School of Aerospace Engineering boasts one of the oldest and largest aerospace programs in the country. Biomedical Engineering The Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering is equally part of the Emory School of Medicine and the Georgia Tech College of Engineering communities. Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering With some of the country’s best labs, the School of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering is known for producing research that addresses the biggest problems facing our world. Civil and Environmental Engineering The School of Civil and Environmental Engineering is consistently ranked as one of the nation's best programs of its kind in both graduate and undergraduate education. Electrical and Computer Engineering Georgia Tech has a top electrical and computer engineering program, and graduates are recruited to work in diverse industries like energy, robotics, manufacturing, autos, and computing. Industrial and Systems Engineering Industrial engineers are constantly looking for ways to make things work better and more efficiently. The Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering is the country’s top-ranked place to study it. Materials Science and Engineering At the School of Materials Science and Engineering, faculty offer research expertise in all forms of materials, including metals, ceramics, polymers, fibers, composites, nanostructures, and bio-enabled/biomimetic materials. Mechanical Engineering Mechanical engineers are the foundation of today’s technological world. Mechanical engineering, the first degree program at Georgia Tech, is consistently ranked among the top ten in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education