Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Academics With 11 undergraduate majors, the College of Engineering readies students for careers and graduate study across all kinds of engineering disciplines. the degree programs at the College build a foundation in engineering principles. Nearly a dozen degrees are offered across the College's eight schools, and students are encouraged to collaborate across disciplines and apply their skills to real-world problems. Whether they want to find jobs or get advanced degrees, graduates leave the College with both the knowledge and practical experience they need. Explore Academics in the College Undergraduate Academics The College's undergraduate programs build a strong foundation in engineering principles. Nearly a dozen degrees are offered across the College's eight schools, and students are encouraged to collaborate across disciplines and apply their skills to real-world problems. Whether they want to find jobs or get advanced degrees, graduates leave the College with both the knowledge and practical experience they need. Graduate Academics The College prepares graduate students for diverse careers in research, management, development, consulting, higher education and other fields. Home to 23 master's programs and 18 doctoral programs, the College offers top-caliber labs and abundant research opportunities, ensuring students complete their degrees with the experience they need. Culture of Innovation From maker spaces for building and creating, labs for experimenting and discovering, and startup incubators for researching and developing, there is unlimited potential for innovation. New partnerships and resources are initiated like clockwork, and if you have a bright idea, we can help you make it happen. Work Experiences When employers see Georgia Tech on their resume, they know that the candidate not only has impeccable academic knowledge, but that he or she also has the skills and experience to handle real-world challenges. Georgia Tech’s Co-op and Internship programs, as well as internships students get on their own, are key ways for students to build professional skills and put into practice what they have learned in class. Online Education In an increasingly digital age, it becomes easier and easier to learn complicated topics without sitting in a lecture hall. Georgia Tech strives to bring knowledge to individuals all over the world and has created a variety of programs to do so. International Experiences Traveling the world and experiencing life as a student or worker in other communities is key in developing their own unique perspective. At Georgia Tech, over 54% of students have an international experience before they graduate. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education