Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Alumni Awards The College of Engineering Alumni Awards were created in 1994 to recognize outstanding engineering alumni from the College. Currently, the College of Engineering recognizes select alumni who have contributed to the profession, advanced in their careers, and enhanced the lives of others both personally and professionally. These outstanding alumni are reviewed by each of the eight schools within the College and formally submitted for selection. The distinctive categories are listed below. The measure of our success is not seen only in educating our students, but in those students’ achievements and contributions after leaving campus. Those being recognized, as well as those who have been honored at past ceremonies, are stellar examples of the success and leadership the College hopes to inspire. 2022 Alumni Awards The next College of Engineering Alumni Awards ceremony will be held on April 23, 2022. The Alumni Awards Induction Ceremony will be held Saturday, April 23, 2022 at Flourish in Atlanta, Georgia. Reception 6:00 p.m., dinner 7:00 p.m. Guest host is Wonya Lucas (IE '83) President and CEO, Crown Media Family Networks. Cocktail attire. Additional details are available by contacting LaJauna Ellis at 404.385.0125 or alumni-awards@coe.gatech.edu. 2022 inductees include the Engineering Hall of Fame: David L. Bailey, Jennifer P. Bailey, Dwight H. Evans, David Flanagan, Bo Godbold, James G. Pope, Agustin A. Ramirez, Robert M. Torras, Sr. (inducted posthumously), Roland M. Toups, Carolyn (Lyn) D. Wylder, and Ronald L. Yancey. The Academy of Distinguished Engineering Alumni: Ashlee Townsend Cribb, Dennis M. Frendahl, John Axalla Godbold, Calvin Mackie, Emmy Montanye, Angela Gill Nelms, and Carmel Ortiz. The Council of Outstanding Young Engineering Alumni: Patrick T. Biltgen, Alexia B. Borden, Christopher E. Brazell, Keith Hearon, Garrett Langley, and Chip Wade. Dean's Appreciation Award: Bill and Penny George. Dean's Impact Award: Samantha Becker and Shannon Evanchec for TruePani, Inc. College of Engineering Alumni Awards website 2019 Alumni Awards recipients File downloads below contain PDF files. Please note that some more-recent browsers have the ability to download and view PDFs. To download and view PDF files, please download a PDF reader such as Adobe Acrobat Reader. 2019 Alumni Awards Program aaic2019_program_final.pdf File last updated Feb 22, 2022. This file requires a PDF reader, such as Adobe Acrobat Reader, to download and view PDF files. Most web browser applications support viewing PDFs. Reception photos Step-and-repeat photos Ramblin' Wreck photos Program photos Award winner photos Full Alumni Awards Video The 2019 Engineering Hall of Fame inductees. From left: Robert Shelley Blount, C. Perry Bankston, John H. Woody, Jr., Jerry S. Johnson, G. Ben Turnipseed, Joseph C. Mello, Raymond J. French, William R. Collins, Jr. Alumni Awards categories Engineering Alumni Hall of Fame Membership in the Engineering Alumni Hall of Fame is reserved for individuals holding a Georgia Tech engineering degree or who have been awarded an honorary degree from Georgia Tech. Those chosen have made meritorious engineering and/or managerial contributions during their careers. The Hall of Fame recognizes successful alumni who have reached the highest levels of achievement in their professional endeavors and who are committed to maintaining the highest standards of their profession. Council of Outstanding Young Engineering Alumni Award The Council of Outstanding Young Engineering Alumni Award recognizes alumni who have distinguished themselves through professional practice and/or service to the Institute, profession, or society at large. They are on the “fast track” and have made rapid advancement within their organizations. They have also been recognized for early professional achievements by others within their profession, field, or organization. They are considered future leaders in their profession. Dean’s Appreciation Award It is acknowledged that the College of Engineering has many valued supporters who are recognized and appreciated continuously during the course of the on-going activities in the college. This award is intended to honor those special individuals who have made extraordinary contributions to the advancement of the College of Engineering at Georgia Tech. The award may go to engineering alumni or to honor individuals who have brought distinction to the College of Engineering and Georgia Tech. Academy of Distinguished Engineering Alumni Award The Academy of Distinguished Engineering Alumni Award recognizes alumni who have provided distinguished contributions to the profession, field, Institute, or society at large. Candidates are highly placed executives and are actively involved in engineering or management, industry, academia, or government. Dean's Impact Award Many alumni from the College of Engineering have devoted themselves to bring about a more ecologically, socio-culturally and economically sustainable and equitable global community. The Dean’s Impact Award has been established to recognize the efforts of these alumni who are focused on developing globally-relevant, locally-sustainable designs and innovations that meet societal challenges across the world. In the College of Engineering, we are committed to a multicultural, multidisciplinary, sustainable, and international engagement by our students. This award is to recognize those graduates who embrace engineering as a means to make an impact on society and who have a vision to find solutions focused on the world’s grand challenges. Honorary Engineering Award Honorary Engineering Award. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education