Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Featured Faculty The College boasts top talent in every research department across all eight schools. Our best-in-class faculty with their many awards and grants is proof of our preeminence. Each faculty member excels at pushing the boundaries of innovation in engineering through interdisciplinary collaboration. Young Faculty Awards Many of our faculty are just beginning their careers when they come to Tech. They are on the cutting-edge of their research areas, studying the most current research methods and technologies. These outstanding young faculty have been honored with awards for their work. Fatih Sarioglu (of the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering) received the 2017 Beckman Young Investigator Award for his project titled “All-Electronic Lab-on-a-Chip Platforms for High-Throughput Multi-Modal Cell Phenotyping.” He is one of eight young faculty members chosen for this honor from a nationwide pool of over 300 applicants. Annabelle Singer (of the School of Biomedical Engineering) was named one of 18 recipients of the prestigious 2017 Packard Fellowships for Science and Engineering. Fellows, who are considered among the most innovative early-career scientists in the nation, will each receive $875,000 over five years to pursue their research. Mark A. Davenport (of the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering) was named as one out of 126 U.S. and Canadian researchers, representing eight scientific fields, to receive a 2017 Sloan Research Fellowship.The Sloan Research Fellowships, awarded yearly since 1955, honor early-career scholars whose achievements mark them as the next generation of scientific leaders. Annabelle Singer, Packard Fellow. Fatih Sarioglu (right) working with two graduate students in the lab. 2017 - 2018 Faculty Highlights In the 2017 to 2018 academic year, many faculty members of the College were recognized by national and international organizations. Some of them are included here. National Academy of Engineering inductees Timothy Lieuwen (Aerospace Engineering), Jianjun Shi (Industrial and Systems Engineering) and former Dean of the College Gary May were inducted into the National Academy of Engineering. Creating the 'Next Generation Leaders' Eva Dyer (Biomedical Engineering) was named a Next Generation Leader for the Allen Institute for Brain Science. National Science Foundation CAREER awards recipients Fatih Sarioglu (Electrical and Computer Engineering), Woo Lee (Mechanical Engineering), Sam Coogan (Electrical and Computer Engineering) and Andy Sun (Industrial and Systems Engineering) were awarded National Science Foundation CAREER awards. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) distinctions 6 recipients from Electrical and Computer Engineering (Maryam Saeedifard, Joseph Hughes, Muhannad Bakir, Robert Butera, Saibal Mukhopadhyay, and Justin Romberg) and Jaydev Desai (Biomedical Engineering) all received distinctions from the IEEE. Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholars Rampi Ramprasad (Materials Science and Engineering) and Shuichi Takayama (Biomedical Engineering) were both named Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholars in energy sustainability and regenerative medicine, respectively. Faculty Profiles Our engineering faculty come to Tech from across the world to contribute research and provide education to students. Meet some of the faculty from our eight schools. Andres Garcia is the director of Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering & Bioscience at Georgia Tech. Professor Julian Rimoli in his office in the Paul Weber Space, Science, and Technology (SST) Building in the School of Aerospace Engineering at Georgia Tech. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education