Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Graduate Dual Degree Programs Georgia Tech offers a dual-degree option allowing students to combine an M.S. or Ph.D. degree with other degree programs within the College of Engineering. This interdisciplinary degree track will provide graduates with deep knowledge of technology, an analytical skillset, business acumen, and an entrepreneurial mindset to propel them to the forefront of their chosen fields. Dual Degree Program with Scheller College of Business The dual degree option allows students to count 15 credit hours from their M.S. or Ph.D. courses toward their MBA elective requirements, reducing the time required to complete both degrees. Thus, students can complete an MBA with 39 credit hours instead of 54 credit hours. Students who have been admitted to an M.S. or Ph.D. program in the Georgia Tech College of Engineering or College of Computing (excluding online degree programs) are eligible to pursue the dual degree option. This includes students in interdisciplinary programs where the two colleges participate, such as the M.S. programs in Analytics and Quantitative and Computational Finance. Georgia Tech students currently pursing graduate degrees in the Colleges of Engineering and Computing who would like to learn more about the dual degree are invited to attend an information session. Please visit the MBA dual degree web page for details about program structure, the application and admissions process, and tuition and financing. Georgia Tech MBA Dual Degree Information Accuity Brands Plaza, Scheller College of Business Dual Degree Program with Ocean Science and Engineering The mission of the graduate program in Ocean Science & Engineering (OSE) is to educate the next generation of transdisciplinary ocean scientists and engineers by combining the basic and applied sciences with innovative ocean technologies, and to advance interdisciplinary research at the frontiers of the physical, biological, chemical and human dimensions of ocean systems. OSE emphasizes innovative holistic and transdisciplinary research involving the interactions of the ocean physical/biological/chemical systems and human-induced perturbations, ranging from climate change to coastal developments, from ocean energy to sea-level rise to its local and global potential consequences. Bridging across time- and spatial-scales the OSE program will also provide an integrative, multi-scale training for the new generations of scientists and engineers in areas that will bridge and encompass traditional disciplines. Learn more about OSE Exploring the ocean. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education