Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Future Engineers The resources of Georgia Tech aren't just available to current students and professors. The campus community extends to potential students and budding engineers of all ages and abilities. From K-12 outreach to executive MBA programs and everything in between, there is something at the College of Engineering to help students attain their goals. Welcome, Future Engineers The College of Engineering at Georgia Tech is the perfect place to further your education, whether that education is an elementary schooler's first exposure to engineering or an executive's supplementary master's degree. In addition to traditional enrollment opportunities, the College provides a wide variety of Massively Open Online Courses (MOOCs) and other resources. However you choose to do it, your education from Georgia Tech will be an invaluable tool to help you go out and better the world with engineering expertise. Want to learn more about the College of Engineering at Georgia Tech? Join undergraduate engineering students Andy and Emily on a virtual tour throughout some of our coolest makerspaces and labs on campus or click on the button below to select individual areas to tour. Select a makerspace or lab to virtually tour Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Future Engineers at Georgia Tech Undergraduate Students Whether you want to cure diseases, build computers, or make cities more sustainable, you'll find a program to fit you at the College. Our undergraduates can choose from the 11 top-ranked majors listed below, but part of what makes our programs so valuable is that your education won't be confined to the classroom. Prospective Undergrads Graduate Students A graduate education from the College will lead you deeper into your academic interests, broadening your skills and boosting your career prospects. With 23 master's degrees and 18 doctoral degrees to choose from, you can tailor your graduate experiences to your personal academic and career goals. Explore Graduate Programs Transfer Students Even if it isn’t where you began your college journey, Georgia Tech is the perfect place to finish it. There are many different pathways that potential transfer students can take, depending on where they stand in their higher education experience. Transferring to Georgia Tech Clark Scholars The A. James Clark Scholars Program at Georgia Tech is dedicated to creating engineers of the future. Student scholars embody an entrepreneurial spirit and community-minded values. They strive to continuously achieve excellence in everything they do. Meet the Scholars Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education