Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Research Partnerships Research partnerships are key to the growth of the College of Engineering, both locally and nationally. Partnering with peer institutions, corporations and government entities is critical to the success of the College. Our partnerships with Emory University for biomedical engineering and Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta offer the opportunity to make an impact on health and medicine. National Laboratories The College partners with many national laboratories, where students go on to work after graduation. Sandia Laboratories Sandia Laboratories plays a large role at the College. Georgia Tech and Sandia have long-standing collaborative relationships with Sandia in many areas, including computer science and advanced computer architectures, energy systems, manufacturing and materials science. Many Georgia Tech students and faculty spend time at Sandia, while Sandia counts many Georgia Tech graduates among its staff members. Oak Ridge National Laboratory Georgia Institute of Technology is one of the core partner universities associated with Oak Ridge National Laboratory. This relationship allows Georgia Tech faculty, postdoctoral fellows and students the opportunity to take advantage of the ORNL facilities, and collaborate with researchers at Oak Ridge. Partnerships Emory University The public-private partnership between Emory University and Georgia Institute of Technology, the state's only two member schools of the prestigious Association of American Universities, models a new efficiency emerging in higher education, as schools focus on core strengths and collaborate with complementary institutions to maximize resources and expertise. Emory and Georgia Tech are members of the Georgia Research Alliance, a government-industry-academic partnership. The two schools have recruited more than 32 GRA Eminent Scholars and leveraged GRA support to attract joint federal funding in infectious diseases, vaccines, nanotechnology, cancer, cardiology and pediatrics. Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Pediatric Technology Center The Pediatric Technology Center (PTC) brings clinical experts together with Georgia Tech scientists and engineers to develop technological solutions to problems in the health and care of children. The PTC provides extraordinary opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration in pediatrics, creating breakthrough discoveries that often can only be found at the intersection of multiple disciplines. These collaborations also allow us to bring discoveries to the clinic and the bedside, thereby enhancing the lives of children and young adults. Partner Research Centers The College has a consistent track record of working with other institutions to build elite centers sponsored by NSF, where cutting-edge research is conducted. These centers include: Packaging Research Center The Packaging Research Center (PRC) provides a comprehensive, cross-disciplinary and multi-functional focus on the packaging issues associated with next-generation electronic systems. MC3M The Marcus Center for Therapeutic Cell Characterization and Manufacturing (MC3M). The new center, the first of its kind in the United States, will develop processes and techniques for ensuring the consistent, low-cost, large-scale manufacture of high-quality living cells used in cell-based therapies. Center for Behavioral Neuroscience The Center for Behavioral Neuroscience (CBN) is an award-winning, interdisciplinary research consortium composed of more than 150 neuroscientists. The center is sponsored by NSF. EBICS The mission of the Center for Emergent Behaviors of Integrated Cellular Systems (EBICS) is to create a new scientific discipline for building living, multi-cellular machines that solve real world problems in health, security, and the environment. It is NSF funded and participants include MIT, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, City College of New York, Morehouse College, University of California-Merced, Boston University, Gladstone Institutes, Princeton University, Tufts University and University of Georgia. Center for Chemical Evolution The scientific objective of the Center for Chemical Evolution is to demonstrate small molecules within a model inventory of prebiotic chemistry can self-assemble into polymers that resemble RNA and proteins. National Nanotechnology Infrastructure Network NSF-sponsored, National Nanotechnology Infrastructure Network (NNIN) hosts National Nanotechnology Coordinated Infrastructure sites to provide researchers from academia, small and large companies, and government with access to university user facilities with leading-edge fabrication and characterization tools, instrumentation, and expertise within all disciplines of nanoscale science, engineering and technology. National Nanotechnology Coordinated Infrastructure Created in 2000, National Nanotechnology Coordinated Infrastructure (NNCI) coordinates the nanoscale research and development activity of more than 20 federal agencies, is the importance of user facilities and networks as part of a robust infrastructure and tool set. Christine Payne's lab, Payne Lab, intersects the College of Science's School of Chemistry and Biochemistry and College of Engineering's Wallace H. Coulter School of Biomedical Engineering. Institute for Materials (IMat), Georgia Tech Polymer Network (GTPN); Molecular Science and Engineering (MoSE) Building. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education