Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Maker Spaces Unfortunately, not everyone has a waterjet or tube bender just lying around. Fortunately, Georgia Tech students dozens of high-tech (and low tech), top-of-the-line machinery at their disposal. Virtual Tour Video The Invention Studio The crown jewel of Georgia Tech maker spaces, the Flowers Invention Studio is open to all students, for any academic or non-academic purpose. It intends to be a place to explore and develop unconventional, creative ideas in a supportive environment. Students work just inside the Invention Studio. Explore the Flowers Invention Studio The Aero Maker Space The Guggenheim School of Aerospace Engineering created the Aero Maker Space as a place for aerospace engineering majors to come and work on projects for class or competitions. The studio includes prototyping, woodworking, metal, and composite shops. Students creating in the aerospace engineering makerspace. Aero Maker Space Details The BME Design Shop Biomedical engineers are encouraged to visit the BME Design Shop for lessons and feedback from design instructors, as well as the tools to bring their innovations to life. The BME Design Shop provides 3D printers, lathes, mills and more for bioengineering students. Explore the BME Design Shop The MILL The MILL, created recently by the School of Materials Science and Engineering, complements the Invention Studio by providing a way for students to test, measure, and create materials to use in other studios. It is stocked with five multi-material 3D printers, a benchtop electron microscope with elemental analysis, and mechanical testing equipment. Materials Science Engineering MILL Lab. Explore the MILL Van Leer Interdisciplinary Design Commons (IDC) What used to be an auditorium on Georgia Tech’s campus is now the largest electronics-oriented student makerspace in the country. The new Van Leer Interdisciplinary Design Commons is open to electrical and computer engineering students, as well as students from other majors. Like other makerspaces on campus, this center offers students a hands-on learning environment where they can work together to solve technology design challenges. The Van Leer Interdisciplinary Design Commons opened in Fall 2018. Explore the IDC Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education