Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Engineering Research Today, the world faces more engineering, scientific, and policy challenges than ever before. Exploring and solving these problems will require the best efforts of engineers and scientists integrating their knowledge, expertise, and creativity with a variety of other experts in global and social issues. Georgia Tech’s research efforts in particular are focused on tackling the most important and complex issues facing our world in the hope of serving the needs of citizens of society-at-large. As of 2020, within the College of Engineering, 61% of undergrad students received an engineering degree from Georgia Tech. 1,249 awards granted in fiscal year 2019, with $270M granted in new research awards. The College is number one in engineering degrees awarded overall to women and minorities and in engineering doctoral degrees awarded to African-Americans. There are 16,444 students enrolled in the College as of Fall 2020 (with 32% women). We have 540 engineering faculty members, with 28 National Academy of Engineering members. There are 2M square feet of research/instructional space in across campus dedicated to engineering. 56% of engineering undergrads have an international experience before graduation. Degrees Awarded, FY20, include 2,279 bachelor’s, 1,424 master’s and 336 Ph.D. The College is Making an Impact High-impact research that improves the lives of others is what drives the College of Engineering. Accomplished faculty from across eight Schools are the best at what they do, moving the needle in areas like bioengineering, cybersecurity, space exploration, advanced materials and additive manufacturing. The College excels at pushing the boundaries of innovation in engineering through interdisciplinary research collaboration. And our best-in-class faculty with their many awards and grants is proof of our preeminence. Research at the College serves local and national needs, as well as provides a global impact on society-at-large. Many of our research contracts are with government agencies, including the Department of Energy and Department of Defense. Undergraduate Research More than 33% of engineering undergraduates participate in research. All students are encouraged to do undergraduate research while at Georgia Tech, no matter their major or interest area. Students may earn course credit or salary for their work. Participation is welcome during any semester and at any time during tenure as an undergraduate student. Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program Research at Georgia Tech Research Horizons Research Horizons magazine is published three times per year to communicate the results of research conducted at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Explore Georgia Tech Research Horizons Georgia Tech News Center The Georgia Tech News Center offers information from all corners of campus. You can read the latest magazines and newspapers or subscribe to daily newsletters. Georgia Tech Newsroom Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education