Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Faculty Resources Policies and procedures as set forth by the University System of Georgia Board of Regents, including information on Faculty Governance, policies regarding promotion and tenure, and general Institute policies. Resources Faculty Handbook Policies and procedures as set forth by the University System of Georgia Board of Regents, including information on Faculty Governance, policies regarding promotion and tenure, and general Institute policies. Promotion & Tenure (RPT Process) Faculty Affairs Faculty Affairs (FA) is responsible for processing all academic faculty personnel transactions including appointments, reappointments, promotions, tenure, post tenure reviews, leaves of absence, and salary adjustments. The office also provides support for faculty in work/life areas such as the Active Service Modified Duties program and extension of the tenure clock. FA maintains faculty information and records, and compiles annual and adhoc reports on faculty data. FA maintains a variety of faculty lists including endowed chairs and professors, Regents' professorships, new faculty hires, national academy members and other major award recipients. Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resources Below are diversity, equity, and inclusion resources for faculty members serving on hiring, search and promotion/tenure committees. Awareness in Decisions in Evaluation Promotion and Tenure Georgia Tech Equity, Diversity, and Excellence Initiative ADVANCE Program Implicit Bias Workshops ADVANCE Faculty Hiring Best Practices ADVANCE Faculty Additional Resources Georgia Tech Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Training Harvard Implicit Bias Association Test Faculty Search Committee Toolkit The Faculty Search Committee Toolkit is a resource for faculty members who serve as chair or member of a faculty recruitment committee. It is our goal to make the process more efficient and effective by providing the information about resources, procedures and best practices Implicit Bias Training Memo implicit_bias_workshops_memo_2021_final.pdf File last updated Dec 23, 2021. This file requires a PDF reader, such as Adobe Acrobat Reader, to download and view PDF files. Most web browser applications support viewing PDFs. Faculty Search Committee Toolkit coe_searchhandbooksept2014.pdf File last updated Dec 23, 2021. This file requires a PDF reader, such as Adobe Acrobat Reader, to download and view PDF files. Most web browser applications support viewing PDFs. Professor of the Practice The title “Professor of the Practice,” which is well established among many of Georgia Tech’s peer institutions, is intended to provide eminently qualified academic, business, or government leaders with a title that is customarily extended to faculty members who hold tenure. This designation represents an effective and meaningful way for Georgia Tech to involve accomplished professionals who seek positions within a leading research university. Further information concerning Professor of the Practice can be found in the Georgia Tech Faculty Handbook. The Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) The Center for Teaching and Learning promotes and supports an on-campus and online instructional community where excellence in teaching and learning is valued and where educators engage in evidence-based state-of-the-art practices that foster opportunities in which diverse students and instructors can thrive. Faculty Governance This site contains the meeting schedules, membership lists and meeting minutes for all Standing Faculty governance bodies, the Academic Senate, the Executive Board, and General Faculty Assembly.. Leadership Memo from Provost Bras on Absence from Campus, Conflicts of Interest, Consulting, Dual Employment, and Export Control Recent memo (March 28, 2016) from Provost Bras reminding faculty about policies regarding absence from campus, conflicts of interest and outside professional activity, consulting, dual employment, and export control. Recent memo (March 28, 2016) from Provost Bras. memo_2016.pdf File last updated Dec 23, 2021. Memo from Provost Bras on External Teaching Activities Recent memo (September 3, 2019) from Provost Bras that outlines the required procedures and approvals for faculty members and other employees engaged in instructional activities outside of Georgia Tech. Instructional activities outside of Georgia Tech bras_external_teaching_2019_9.3.19.pdf File last updated Dec 23, 2021. This file requires a PDF reader, such as Adobe Acrobat Reader, to download and view PDF files. Most web browser applications support viewing PDFs. Professional Absence and Leave Policies See Faculty Handbook Occasional absences from campus are necessitated by the professional activities of most faculty members, Institutional rules and guidelines governing categories of leave and leave of absence policies at Georgia Tech can be found in the faculty handbook. Policy on Extension of the Probationary Period for Tenure Extensions of the probationary period for tenure may be granted to a faculty member for the purpose of balancing personal and family obligations with professional and scholarly achievement. Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) The FMLA act provides up to 12 weeks of unpaid, job-protected leave to eligible employees for certain medical and family reasons (birth of a child, care of employee’s child, spouse, or parent, serious health condition of the employee). Family and Work Policies This link describes family-friendly programs at Georgia Tech, which include Active Service-Modified Duties, daycare facilities, summer day camps, and extending the tenure clock. Georgia Tech Employee Benefits The information at this site explains the many benefits associated with employment at Georgia Tech, including medical, dental, and supplemental insurance, flexible spending accounts, child care center, mortgage discounts, FMLA, benefits forms and FAQ’s. Vacation and Sick Leave Policies This site includes information and regulations of the GT vacation and sick leave policies, including court duty, military leave, medical leave (FMLA), and includes links to OHR forms. Maternity Leave Maternity leave is treated like any other medical condition. Employees may use their accrued sick leave while on maternity leave to receive their full salary. This link provides further, more specific information, as well as an internal link with maternity leave (and paternity) tips for GT employees. Also, please see Active-Service Modified Duties. Criteria for the Evaluation of Faculty Members as Teachers and Educators See Faculty Handbook. This site defines criteria for effective teaching and the concept of faculty as educators, including course and curriculum development, teaching skills and methods, and publications and educational activities. Criteria for the Evaluation of Service Activities See Faculty Handbook. While faculty members usually contribute to the Institute primarily through teaching and creative activities, they may also contribute significantly to Georgia Tech through appropriate types of service to the Institute, the public, and to professional organizations. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education