Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Flexible Graduate Degree Options Not all students are freshly minted high school graduates moving into their first dorm room. Georgia Tech engineers are diverse in background and resources, and CoE offers equally diverse opportunities for both undergraduate and graduate degree programs. The College offers several executive master's programs, allowing working professionals to increase their income potential while studying at a world-renowned university. Students may also pursue some degrees entirely online. Professional Master's Degree Programs Through the Georgia Tech Professional Education department, working professionals have the opportunity to attain a Master's of Science degree without having to stop working. Three programs are offered: Applied Systems Engineering, Manufacturing Leadership and Occupational Safety and Health. Each degree includes ten courses in a hybrid approach that includes three one-week on-campus experiences, with the rest of the independent coursework completed online. After two years, students will be able to apply what they have learned to their careers and influence their own industry. Georgia Tech Professional Masters Degree Programs Online Master's Degree Programs Some students can't uproot their lives to move to Atlanta, and CoE provides the opportunity to get a Master's degree from one of the premier engineering institutions entirely online. Rigorous courses are equivalent to their on-campus counterparts, and students get access to CoE experts who are top in their field. Georgia Tech offers ten of these degree options: Aerospace Engineering Analytics Computational Science and Engineering Computer Science Cybersecurity Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical Engineering Medical Physics Operations Research Georgia Tech Online Master's Degree Programs Which is right for you What's the difference between a master of science vs. a professional mater's degree? A master of science (MS) is a degree that emphasizes research and the in-depth study of the theory, history and methodologies of an academic field. MS students wish to contribute new knowledge or research to their field while strengthening their research and critical thinking skills. If you want to conduct research and become a producer of knowledge, gain in-depth expertise for solving new and complex problems, or you want to pursue a Ph.D. or career in academia, then this degree is right for you. For admission, you are required to take the GRE or GMAT, have a bachelor's degree, letters of reference, an essay and resume. A professional master's (PM) is a degree that emphasizes knowledge and hands-on experience that can be used immediately in non-academic professions and careers. It's best for learners who are established in their profession and wish to strengthen their leadership and technical skills to advance their career. If you prefer an emphasis on experience over research, you want practical skills and knowledge that can be used immediately in your profession, and you wish to increase your marketability in your field, then this degree is right for you. You will need a bachelor's degree and at least five years work experience, letters of reference (including an employer), an essay and resume. GRE/GMAT is not required. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education