Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search K-12 Programs Some students have been dreaming about attending Georgia Tech since they were young, and others have just heard about what the Institute might have to offer them. Students of all ages can experience a little slice of Georgia Tech no matter what age they are—there area variety of different programs that occur throughout the year and are designed to help future engineers experience what it’s like to be a Ramblin’ Wreck. Remote Classes Online Math Classes Georgia Tech offers advanced mathematics students, in high schools across Georgia, the opportunity to take online classes while still in high school. Classes are held on campus, taught to Georgia Tech students, while being delivered via live video or internet feed to high school students in 51 classrooms across Georgia. Remote Learning Opportunities MOOCs Georgia Tech’s Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) are also free and available for anyone to take. A wide variety of course are offered, and there are options to earn a certificate in a subject as well. Georgia Tech MOOC offerings Summer Programs from the College SEI The Summer Engineering Institute (SEI) is a three-week residential summer program, which focuses on providing rising 11th and 12th grade underrepresented minority students with a real-world engineering experiences that prepares them for future challenges. SEI Program Details H.O.T. Days H.O.T. Days @ Tech is a one-week long summer camp intended to introduce high school students to electrical and computer engineering concepts. Discover H.O.T. Days TEC Camp TEC Camp, offered by Georgia Tech’s Women in Engineering, is a week-long summer camp designed to offer rising 7th and 8th graders an introduction to Technology, Engineering, and Computing. Jr. TEC Camp, a preview to TEC Camp, is a three-day program for rising 5th and 6th graders that aims to give girls an exciting introduction to the engineering world. WIE TEC Camp NSLC Sessions The National Student Leadership Conference (NSLC) invites outstanding high school students to explore labs, investigate technologies, and take on an engineering challenge. The College collaborates with the NSLC to host two two-week summer sessions. NSLC Opportunities Additional Programs at Tech Horizons @ Georgia Tech Programs for Enriched and Accelerated Knowledge in STEM (PEAKS) FIRST LEGO League Challenge Engineering Career Conference CoE Champions Program K.I.D.S. Club AMP-IT-UP (Advanced Manufacturing & Prototyping Integrated to Unlock Potential) CAPACiTY (Culturally Authentic Practice to Advance Computational Thinking in Youth) GoSTEM TEC campers visit campus lab spaces, including the Laboratory for Intelligent Decision and Autonomous Robots. SEI teams present their research at the end of the three-week session. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education