Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Future Undergraduates Whether you want to cure diseases, build computers or make cities more sustainable, you'll find a program to fit you at the College of Engineering. Our undergraduates can choose from the 11 top-ranked majors listed below, but part of what makes our programs so valuable is that your education won't be confined to the classroom. Why choose Georgia Tech's College of Engineering? Over half of Georgia Tech students have been abroad with us by the time they graduate, and we encourage undergraduates to build their resumes through research, internships and co-ops. Some of our engineers are even thriving as founders and executives of their own companies before they walk across that stage. Here on campus, you can pick from hundreds of student clubs and intramural sports teams. Or, just spend some time hanging out in Atlanta, the diverse metropolis we love to call home. When you graduate, you'll be more than ready for any career path you choose, and you'll have a degree recognized and respected by top employers around the world. The median starting salary for a Georgia Tech graduate is about $71,000. Ready to Apply? Want to get started? If you're ready to apply, take the time to check out the Georgia Tech Admissions site. Both the Common Application and the Coalition application are accepted. Apply to Georgia Tech College of Engineering's Offered Degrees The College's undergraduate programs build a foundation in engineering principles. Nearly a dozen degrees are offered across the College's eight schools, and students are encouraged to collaborate across disciplines and apply their skills to real-world problems. Whether they want to find jobs or get advanced degrees, graduates leave the College with both the knowledge and practical experience they need. College of Engineering Schools How much will it cost? Georgia Tech offers its students excellent returns on their investments, and the Institute awards undergraduates more than $105 million in need and merit-based aid. Additionally, many of our in-state students are eligible for the Hope and Zell Miller merit scholarships. If you are accepted to Tech, advisors in the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (OSFA) will work with you to make your degree attainable. A good place to explore your options, determine what aid you're eligible for, and learn how to apply for aid is OSFA's step-by-step guides. Virtually Visit Georgia Tech Interested in seeing more of Georgia Tech's campus? Unfortunately, due to COVID-19, in-person tours are not in session. However, you can join engineering undergraduates Andy and Emily on a virtual tour of some of our engineering labs and makerspaces. Experience the Virtual Tour Tech Tower overlooking gorgeous downtown Atlanta, Georgia. Getting Involved Research Many of the College’s undergraduates find it easy to get involved in research. For any interest or passion, there is likely a lab happy to accept you and faculty excited to mentor you. Georgia Tech prides itself on far-reaching, ground-breaking, and interdisciplinary research. Undergraduates are encouraged to contribute to a lab and make their own discoveries. Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Organizations From the Student Government Association to the skydiving club, from Women In Engineering to Robojackets, there is a professional or extracurricular organization to suit the interests of any student. The numerous student-led and student-focused clubs and societies are great for building a resume, and even better for building a community. Engineering Student Organizations Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education