Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Research Resources Our investment in engineering research is crucial to expand the boundaries of knowledge, advance and create new information and technology, transfer technology to industry, and positively impact the the state, nation, and world with strategic advances that have the potential to spawn new industries or to radically transform the product lines, processing technologies, or service delivery methodologies of current industries. Internal GT Resources Compliance Links Georgia Tech has established review committees to ensure that research is conducted in accordance with federal, state, and Georgia Board of Regents’ guidelines. Animal Use and Care Human Subject Radiation Pre-Proposal Help Office of Sponsored Programs GT Proposal Forms Funding Search Tools Community of Science - Community of Science (COS) is the leading global resource for hard-to-find information critical to scientific research and other projects across all disciplines. GrantsNet - GrantsNet is a one-stop resource to find funds for training in the sciences and undergraduate science education. Through the support of HHMI and AAAS, this service is completely free. Federal Register - Published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), the Federal Register is the official daily publication for rules, proposed rules, and notices of Federal agencies and organizations, as well as executive orders and other presidential documents. Health Research Funding - Health Research Funding is designed to bring researchers with peer-reviewed, worthwhile, unfunded projects together with patient advocacy organizations and other funding sources. Email Alert Services Grants.gov - Grants.gov allows organizations to electronically find and apply for more than $400 billion in Federal grants. Grants.gov is the single access point for over 1000 grant programs offered by all Federal grant-making agencies. MyNSF - MyNSF is an email- and web-based alert service, designed to help anyone with an interest in NSF news and publications find out quickly about new publications and information. NIH Guide - The NIH Guide for Grants and Contractsis the official publication for NIH medical and behavioral research grant policies, guidelines and funding opportunities. EPA - NCER runs competitions for STAR grants, graduate and undergraduate fellowships, research contracts under the Small Business Innovative Research Program, and other research assistance programs. NASA - Supporting research in science and technology is an important part of NASA's overall mission. NASA solicits this research through the release of various research announcements in a wide range of science and technology disciplines. News for Researchers NIH Roadmap - The NIH Roadmap provides a framework of the priorities NIH as a whole must address in order to optimize its entire research portfolio. It lays out a vision for a more efficient and productive system of medical research. The NIH Roadmap identifies the most compelling opportunities in three main areas: new pathways to discovery, research teams of the future, and re-engineering the clinical research enterprise. Grantwriting Tips for Getting Started - Information about the first stages of the grant-writing process, including pre-writing, organization, budget planning, etc. NSF's Guide for Proposal Writing - Advice often given to inquirers. These suggestions for improving proposals were collected from a variety of sources, including NSF Program Directors, panel reviewers, and successful grantees. Hints for Writing a Successful NIH grant - Link to the many NIH divisions such as the National Cancer Institute. On the individual websites are materials for grantwriting directly related to the divisions. Instructions on Grant Development - A guide on how to develop a grant, including generating ideas for it. EPA Grantwriting Tutorial - EPA developed this program to help those communities and non-profit organizations identify financial assistance opportunities for their environmental-oriented development programs. Also, this program was developed to make it easier for applicants to produce more competitive grant applications. Grant Proposal Workshop - Starting point web page for thos looking to write a grant application. Advice for Grant Seekers - Recommendations and links from UCDavis on how to develop ideas and then put them into action. Non-Profit guides - Non-profit guides are free web-based grant-writing tools for non-profit organizations, charitable, educational, public organizations, and other community-minded groups. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education