Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Engineering Main navigation About About Facts and Rankings Leadership Associate Deans School Chairs Diversity and Inclusivity Directory Advisory Board Find Us Future Engineers Virtual Tour Future Engineers Undergraduates Undergraduates Dual Degree Options Graduates Future Graduates Dual Degree Programs Flexible Degree Options Transfers K-12 Programs A. James Clark Scholars Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Culture of Innovation Maker Spaces Online Education Co-Op's & Internships International Experiences International Partnerships Study Abroad Accreditation Schools Schools Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Research Research Partnerships Undergraduate Research Featured Faculty Engage Engage Alumni Awards Alumni Newsletter Giving News Open Search Search Search Facts and Rankings The College of Engineering is consistently ranked among the country’s top 10 engineering institutions and has a reputation as a global leader and innovator. The College is home to eight separate engineering schools, each of which are ranked in the top of their respective fields. Because of its high academic quality and relatively low cost, Georgia Tech’s College of Engineering is cited as one of the best values in American higher education by publications such as the Fiske Guide to Colleges, the Princeton Review and the Kiplinger Business Magazine. At a Glance 48% of undergrad students received an engineering degree from Georgia Tech (Spring 2021). There are 18,061 students enrolled in the College as of Fall 2021 (32% women). The College is number one in engineering degrees awarded overall to women and minorities and in engineering doctoral degrees awarded to Black students. About 56% of engineering undergrads have an international experience before graduation. There are 2M square feet of research/instructional space across campus dedicated to engineering. Engineering degrees awarded in FY21 include 2,029 bachelor’s, 1,736 master’s and 384 Ph.D. 1,377 new research awards granted in FY20, with $279.7M in research expenditures. As of Fall 2020, there are 540 engineering faculty members, with 30 National Academy of Engineering members. U.S. News & World Report Rankings Undergraduate Programs The Georgia Tech College of Engineering continues to be recognized as an elite engineering school and one of the top public institutions in the nation. The undergraduate engineering program at the College ranked 4th in the 2022 America's Best Colleges edition of U.S. News & World Report (published in September 2021). The program is also #2 for public colleges. All of the programs offered by the College, the nation’s largest and most diverse engineering college, placed among the top five of their respective areas. School Ranking Industrial and Systems Engineering 1st Aerospace Engineering 2nd Civil Engineering 2nd Chemical Engineering 2nd Mechanical Engineering 2nd Biomedical Engineering 3rd Environmental Engineering 3rd Electrical Engineering 4th Materials Engineering 4th Computer Engineering 5th Graduate Programs For the 11th year in a row, all 11 of the College’s graduate programs are ranked in the nation’s top 10 in the U.S. News & World Report graduate rankings. The College is No. 7 nationally, and fourth among public universities. U.S. News & World Report Graduate Rankings, published in March 2022 School Ranking Industrial Engineering 1st Biomedical Engineering 2nd Civil Engineering 3rd Environmental Engineering 3rd Aerospace Engineering 4th Electrical Engineering 4th Mechanical Engineering 4th Chemical Engineering 5th Computer Engineering 6th Materials Engineering 7th Nuclear Engineering 9th Global Ranking In October of 2019 U.S. News & World Report released a global ranking of engineering schools based primarily on research and global reputation in the field. The ranking placed Georgia Tech 18th among all engineering schools in the world and fifth among American schools. Statistics and Rankings #1 in engineering doctoral degrees awarded to African-Americans (Diverse Issues in Higher Education) 150 labs, centers and affiliate programs involving students in research. Fall 2020 engineering enrollment topped 16,000 making us the largest College of Engineering of its kind in the country. The Georgia Tech College of Engineering is the largest producer of engineering degrees awarded to women and underrepresented minority students according to the American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE) and Diverse: Issues in Higher Education. Georgia Tech Research Corporation is #32 on the list of Top 100 Worldwide Universities Granted U.S. Utility Patents. 33.5% of our undergraduate engineering students are women, compared to just 17% of engineering students nationally. 30% of undergraduate students participate in the co-op program, which is the largest voluntary co-op program in the nation. First year retention rate at Georgia Tech is 97%. All undergraduate programs and graduate programs are ranked in the top 10 by U.S. News. Accepted students for Fall 2019 come from 45 states and 78 nations. Georgia Tech is the top producer of engineering Ph.D.'s in the country according to 2017 data from the National Science Foundation. Interesting Engineering ranks the M.S. degree in Cybersecurity #1 in the country,. According to the website, "Georgia Tech's program is specifically focused on the practical application of cybersecurity. The program works closely with the college of engineering to integrate applicable coursework and thanks to their three main specialization paths. You have good options depending upon which career path you see yourself taking. While studying at the school, you'll also have a chance to do research work for the U.S. government, military, and even private industry thanks to the school's immense connections in the field." Georgia Institute of Technology Rankings Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum User account menu Log in College Resources College Resources Faculty Resources Promotion and Tenure (RPT Process) Research Resources IT Resources and Policies Forms Accreditation Statement of Ethics and Integrity EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Dean's Office Handbook Advisory Board Resources Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education