Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Cognitive Science Program in Cognitive Science Contact Us cognitive.science@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Advise and Contact Courses Major Major Requirements How to Declare A Major Focus Areas Honors Program Independent Study Phil Lab: Explore the Possibilities Current Majors Learning Outcomes Awards and Prizes Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Senior Honors Thesis Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Senior Honors Thesis Presentation Spring 2022 Hannah LeBarron will defend her thesis Wednesday, June 1, 2022, 11:30 am, Reed 209. In person and by virtual Zoom. Marie-Christine Nizzi on Patients' Rights In her article "Patients' rights: In health care, who speaks for you?" Marie-Christine Nizzi draws attention to systemic biases in health care and how, in the U.S., patients' voices are often excluded in their health care decisions. The Narrative Mind Fritz Breithaupt, Indiana University, Bloomington, gave a letcure on May 9, 2022, 4:30 pm, Moore B03. 2022 Worldwide Post Doc/Student Competition Winners Congratulations Marie-Christine Nizzi for your project on the impact of mood on free will and agency in full body paralyzed patients. Suffering: A Neurofunctional Account Colin Allen, University of Pittsburgh gave a lecture on Feb. 1, 2022. To view the lecture please go to the link on the following page. Declaring a Cognitive Science Major? On February 7, 2022 Cognitive Science faculty and students had a virtual informational session with Cognitive Science faculty for a discussion on how to declare a COGS major. For a recording of this event please contact Liz Cassell. Innovators in Cognitive Neuroscience Seminar Series 2021-2022 2021 - 2022, Center for Cognitive Neuroscience launched a seminar series, Innovators in Cognitive Neuroscience. Regan Bernhard Joins The PhiLab Regan Bernhard is the newest postdoc in Jonathan Phillips' Philab. Before coming to Dartmouth, Dr. Bernhard was a postdoc with Josh Greene and Fiery Cushman at Harvard, where she previously completed her PhD in psychology. Welcome to Dartmouth! How Shared Neural Codes Help Us Recognize Familiar Faces Information about familiar faces is shared across the brains of people who know each other. The Great Resignation is just the beginning. The Great Resignation is just the beginning. We have to prepare ourselves for a post-work world by Marie-Christine Nizzi article in November 2021 issue of the Insider. Recent Publications view all Predicting individual face-selective topography using naturalistic stimuli Maria Gobbini, Jiahui G, Chauhan V, Feilong M, Visconti di Oleggio Castello M, James V. Haxby, Guntupalli JS Journal: NeuroImage Factive Theory of Mind Jonathan S. Phillips Forthcoming, Mind & Language Neuroethics Fifteen Years On Adina L. Roskies The Philosophers' Magazine, 84:22-28 (2019) Knowledge before Belief Jonathan S. Phillips, Wesley Buckwalter, Fiery Cushman, Ori Friedman Cambridge University Press: 08 September 2020 Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Program in Cognitive Science Undergraduate Overview Advise and Contact Courses Major Major Requirements How to Declare A Major Focus Areas Honors Program Independent Study Phil Lab: Explore the Possibilities Current Majors Learning Outcomes Awards and Prizes Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Senior Honors Thesis News & Events News & Events Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback