Skip to main content Cognitive Science Cog Sci UC San Diego Search This Site All UCSD Sites Faculty/Staff Search Term About Department History Photo/Video Galleries Contact & Directions Human Resources Employment Calendar News Highlights Give Back Cognitive Science Dept. Facilities Campus Principles of Community Safety Resources People Faculty Adjunct & In-Residence Faculty Faculty Emeritus Lecturers Researchers Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Lab Staff Staff Research Research Labs Featured Publications Cognition At the Shore Graduates CogSci Ph.D Program Courses Graduate Student Awards Resources Teaching Assistants Interdisciplinary Ph.D. Program SDSU-UCSD LCD Joint Doctoral Program Undergraduates Advising Major Program Minor Program Courses Prospective Undergraduates Student Resources Honors Program CogSci Pride Toggle navigation MENU About Department History Photo/Video Galleries Contact & Directions Human Resources Employment Calendar News Highlights Give Back Cognitive Science Dept. Facilities Campus Principles of Community Safety Resources People Faculty Adjunct & In-Residence Faculty Faculty Emeritus Lecturers Researchers Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Lab Staff Staff Research Research Labs Featured Publications Cognition At the Shore Graduates CogSci Ph.D Program Courses Graduate Student Awards Resources Teaching Assistants Interdisciplinary Ph.D. Program SDSU-UCSD LCD Joint Doctoral Program Undergraduates Advising Major Program Minor Program Courses Prospective Undergraduates Student Resources Honors Program CogSci Pride Search This Site All UCSD Sites Faculty/Staff Search Term 1st Cognitive Science Department in the World Today, the department provides a focus for the continued evolution of the discipline of cognitive science. Learn More JOIN US The Department of Cognitive Science at UC San Diego offers an exceptional undergraduate and graduate program Learn More Previous Next THE SCIENCE BEHIND THE INTUITION The Department of Cognitive Science is committed to transcending theoretical boundaries rooted in traditional disciplines in pursuit of a scientific account of cognition. We promote the study of learning, perception, action, and interaction in the physical, social, and cultural world. Our inter-disciplinary vision draws from a number of disciplines, including anthropology, computer science, ethology, electrical engineering, linguistics, neurology, neurosciences, philosophy, psychology, and sociology in order to contribute to theory and apply what we learn to design. Learn More ... PROGRAMS AND RESEARCH UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES Our program provides an excellent background for many professional fields, including medicine, clinical psychology, and information technology. More about undergraduate studies GRADUATE STUDIES Multidisciplinary study of cognition with emphasis on computer science, linguistics, neuroscience, psychology, and related aspects of anthropology, biology, mathematics, philosophy, and sociology. More about graduate studies RESEARCH The underlying philosophy of the department challenges faculty and students to be knowledgeable in and sympathetic to a wide variety of fields and techniques. More about research Cognitive Science Event Calendar Take a look at our CogSci calendar to find upcoming events, webinars, and more! SEE THE CALENDAR News and Highlights View All News Monday, May 9th - Friday, May 13th NEW! Apple a Day UCUES Survey Week - Tell us how UC-It! Complete the UC Undergraduate Experiences Survey 2022 by midnight (Pacific Time), Friday, May 13 More Information Saturday, Apr 16, 8:00am-4:00pm MEDS 2022 Conference - there will be workshops on all components of the application process: testing, writing personal statements, interviewing, and more. On top of that, the UC San Diego School of Medicine and Pharmacy has invited conference attendees to participate in hands-on workshops in the brand-new patient simulation labs, just like first-year medical and pharmacy students. MORE INFORMATION Wednesday, Mar 2 2022 Humboldt Professorship - Angela Yu of Cognitive Science has been selected for the Alexander von Humboldt Professorship for Artificial Intelligence. Yu’s research is focused on the complexities of facial recognition and how the mind processes faces. More Information EVENTS Friday, May 27th, 10:00 a.m. Ian Drosos’ Dissertation Defense More Event Info Wednesday, May 11th, 12:00 pm Faculty Candidate Seminar - Brian Duistermars More Event Info Wednesday, May 4th, 12:00 p.m. Faculty Candidate Seminar - Anne Beatty-Martínez More Event Info Are you an alum of the department? Get involved or help us support the efforts of a new generation! GIVE NOW UC San Diego 9500 Gilman Dr. La Jolla, CA 92093 (858) 534-2230 Copyright © 2022 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions Feedback