Cognitive Science Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Home Events Submenu Calendar News People Submenu People Affiliated Faculty Executive Committee Postdoctoral Research Associates Certificate Graduate Fellows Submenu Graduate Fellows Graduate Student Fellowship Past Graduate Student Fellows Funding Submenu Graduate Student Research Funding Submenu Graduate Research Funding Recipients Undergraduate Research Support Undergraduate Senior Thesis Research Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowship Submenu Recipients of Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships Contact Log in Search Search Cognitive Science Welcome to the Program in Cognitive Science The Program in Cognitive Science is an interdisciplinary undertaking, involving scholars from Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Linguistics, Molecular Biology, Neuroscience, Philosophy, and Psychology. Our primary goal is to foster a vibrant interdisciplinary intellectual community based around cognitive science. We offer an undergraduate certificate program, and a graduate student fellows program. We also host various events, including a colloquium series, a lunchtime talk series, as well as other offerings. The program's events are open to all members of the Princeton community, and student participation – both graduate and undergraduate – is strongly encouraged. To receive notification concerning the program's events, please contact Anna Colasante (anna@princeton.edu). News Senior Thesis Prizes Awarded May 24, 2022 Naser Al-Fawakhiri, Psychology, has been awarded the George A. Miller Prize in Cognitive Science. The excellent and ambitious thesis is titled "Investigating the Influence of Task Error and Reward on Cerebellar Implicit Motor Adaptation". Rachel Myers, Psychology, is the inaugural recipient of the Dr. Robert J… Applications being accepted for Graduate Student Fellows in Cognitive Science - deadline extended May 24, 2022 The Program in Cognitive Science is seeking applications from Princeton Ph.D. students to become Graduate Student Fellows in Cognitive Science. To be eligible, students must have a clear plan for their dissertation projects, though they are not required to have completed generals. They must plan to be in residence at Princeton… Senior Thesis Prizes April 20, 2022 The Program in Cognitive Science is now accepting nominations for The George A. Miller Prize in Cognitive Science. This prize is given annually to the best interdisciplinary senior thesis in cognitive science. Nominations for this prize may be made by any senior thesis advisor in any Department. The prize is funded by the… Cognitive Science Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowship Feb. 17, 2022 The Program in Cognitive Science is accepting applications from current juniors enrolled in the program who wish to work on their theses over the summer. The application opens on February 18th and the deadline to apply is March 20, 2022. Applicants should prepare a brief description of their projects (approx. 500-700 words), and as… View All News Footer Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA Operator: (609) 258-3000 Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University