Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Current Students On this page Overview Deadlines CSS Profile IDOC Financial Aid Activity and Demographic Supplement (FAADS) FAFSA Frequently Asked Questions Overview We're here to help. The process of applying for financial aid from Harvard is essentially the same for all students, but please read through these instructions and refer to your my.harvard account to see which specific materials we need from your family. You will need to submit your 2020 tax information for the 2022-2023 academic year. If you applied for financial aid in the previous year, you will automatically be emailed instructions to apply for renewal in February. If you have not applied for aid in the past but would like to do so now, please contact the Griffin Financial Aid Office to let us know. Deadlines The deadline to renew your aid is May 1. If you complete your application by the deadline, you will receive your decision notification through my.harvard by July 1. If your application is incomplete at the deadline, we will notify you via your college email account. Once your aid application is complete, the financial aid decision will be released to my.harvard on a rolling basis during the summer. It is the student’s responsibility to keep track of deadlines and respond to requests for missing documents or additional information. The decision process takes time. We urge you to meet our deadlines in order to have aid in place for the fall term. When should I start my application? Don’t leave your application to the last minute. We recommend starting the application no later than the first week of April. Where can I track my application status? Beginning in mid-February, current students should log in to my.harvard.edu to see what materials have been received and what may be missing. Please allow up to a week for materials you have submitted to appear as received. When will I get my award? If your application is complete by our deadline, you will receive your award through my.harvard by July 1. Late applications will be processed as soon as possible after July 1. CSS Profile All applicants must file the online 2022-2023 CSS Profile via the College Board. Make sure to include Harvard as a recipient using the code 3434. If your parents are married or live together, they will file one CSS Profile. If they are separated or divorced, each parent will need to complete their own CSS Profile. If you are an international student who is unable to complete the CSS Profile due to unreliable access in your home country, or if you live in a country from which the College Board cannot process payments, you may submit a paper application found here. What if I make a mistake on the CSS Profile? We’ll update the CSS Profile with your tax information when it gets to IDOC. If you need to make other corrections that won’t naturally be updated by your taxes, you can update your CSS Profile application once by clicking "Correct Your CSS Profile" on your CSS Profile Dashboard. IDOC We require submission of tax and other documents through the College Board IDOC Service. Before you can upload your documents to IDOC, you must have completed and submitted the CSS Profile. Once you file your CSS Profile you will receive communication from the College Board that will guide you through the process. Do not submit supporting documents to our office unless you are specifically instructed to do so. All materials need to be sent through IDOC. Gather together all of the following that apply, and submit them to IDOC. Please do not send draft or estimated taxes. For the 2022-2023 year, we need the actual 2020 tax return as filed with the government. If your documents are not in English, please be sure to translate them. Parents’ 2020 income tax document for both parents: for US students, this is usually the signed 1040 Federal Income Tax Return with all pages and schedules, including W-2 Forms. For many international students, this will be whatever documentation of income your parents submit to their national government. If your parents do not file tax returns, please submit a Tax Non-Filer Statement, and whatever documentation they do have, such as a wage statement, salary certificate, or letter from their employer(s) stating annual income. Student’s 2020 income tax document: if you do not file a tax document, please submit a Tax Non-Filer Statement, and a copy of any W-2 Forms, if you received any. Students who submit tax returns should ensure that they are signed. Business documents: if either of your parents has an interest in a business or farm, submit the business tax return for each business and/or farm. In the US, this refers to the full 1065 Partnership Return, 1120 S Corporate Return, and 1120 Corporate Return, along with K-1 Statements. Additional information: if you have any unusual expenses or special circumstances to share, feel free to submit a letter with the rest of your documents. Frequently Asked Questions Do I need to submit every page of the tax return? You should include all pages and schedules of your federal or national income tax return. A common mistake is for US students to send only the first two pages of the tax return, leaving out the schedules (for example Schedule 1, Schedule A, Schedule B, etc). You do not need to send copies of state tax returns. Is IDOC's list of required documents definitive? No. IDOC will show only the most common and basic required documents. You should use our list of required documents from this instructions page and from your my.harvard account as your list of required documents. Submit to IDOC anything else as an ‘institution specific required document’ or ‘other document.’ Should I also mail my documents? No. The way to submit your documents is via IDOC. Documents mailed to our office will not complete your application, unless we have specifically asked you to use mail instead of IDOC. What if my financial situation changes? You should still complete your application as instructed. As always, if there are special circumstances of which you would like us to be aware, please include a detailed letter with the materials you submit to IDOC so that your circumstances can be reviewed along with the rest of your required application materials. If your special circumstances relate to a declining income, you’re also welcome to submit your 2021 tax returns to IDOC if you wish. Financial Aid Activity and Demographic Supplement (FAADS) Every student needs to complete the Financial Aid Activity and Demographic Supplement online. This is a short and easy form to complete. It needs to be completed by the student - parents cannot complete this form on behalf of a student. FAFSA The FAFSA is a free form that determines your eligibility for federal aid. Only students who are US Citizens, Permanent Residents, or other eligible non-citizens will file the FAFSA. File the online 2022-2023 FAFSA. Remember to include Harvard’s code E00468 so that we receive the FAFSA. Our Completing the FAFSA page has tips to help you apply. Federal Aid Only If you do not intend to apply for grant aid from the College, but would like us to determine your eligibility for federal funds only (such as Pell Grants, FWSP, or federal loans), you need only to file the FAFSA. Please notify us of your decision to apply only for federal aid by May 1. Frequently Asked Questions What do I do if I'm returning from a leave of absence? If you are returning from a leave of absence, please contact the Financial Aid Office to let us know of your intention to return. IRS Data Retrieval Tool Use the FAFSA IRS Data Retrieval tool, which will fill out most of the FAFSA for you. Always double-check your SSN on all of your submissions. Tips for International Students If you don’t have an SSN, you should use your HUID on all forms. If you or your parents file a tax document in your country you will submit this as part of the process. Please submit the full tax submission - not the notice of assessment. If they do not file a tax document, please submit whatever documentation of income they do have, such as a wage statement or letter from their employer(s). If your documents are not in English, be sure to translate them. Related Topics How to complete the FAFSA Tips on how to complete the FAFSA, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid.  Managing Your Aid Information on taking a leave of absence, notifying us about outside awards, federal verification, and sibling verification.  Bills & Payments Your attention should be on your education, not your bill. We strive to make our billing and payment process as streamlined as possible.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Skip to site header Skip to main content