Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Video description: Students walking through their house and hanging out as a group in a room. Breadcrumb Admissions Why Harvard Diversity and Access On this page Overview College Access Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Community Recruitment Programs Campus Resources Overview Embracing Our Differences Our students represent all fifty states and more than 100 countries. When they come to Harvard, they bring their talent, curiosity, and intelligence. They also bring their perspective on the world—an understanding that is deeply tied to their culture, background, and experiences. The result is a diverse, open-minded community where dialogue and debate are not only encouraged—they're inevitable. In Support of Civil Rights & Our Students Our Black Lives Matter Statement The Admissions & Financial Aid Office stands with Black people around the nation, and we unequivocally state that Black Lives Matter. Dean Khurana's Message on Anti-Asian Violence Hate has no place at Harvard. The Admissions & Financial Aid Office firmly supports Dean Khurana's message denouncing violence against Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders. College Access We seek to enroll students of all backgrounds and beliefs who will learn from and with one another. Integrity, maturity, strength of character, and concern for others play a significant role in our evaluations. More important, they are integral to a successful Harvard education. “To realize the community’s full promise, and to foster the personal and intellectual transformation at the heart of our mission, we must also work affirmatively and collectively to advance a culture of belonging.” - Drew Faust We want to bring the best people to Harvard, regardless of their ability to pay. Your financial status will never impact your admissions decision. Neither will applying for financial aid. Furthermore, we meet 100% of demonstrated financial need, helping to make a Harvard education accessible to as many families as possible. Learn more about affordability Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Harvard is committed to fostering a culture of inclusive excellence. The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging works to make every student feel like a valued member of the Harvard community. Learn more about Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Community Your education goes beyond coursework. Student activities create unique opportunities to expand your comfort zone, learn new things, and make friends. Harvard has wide-ranging student organizations suited to all interests. Student organizations also help to broaden your social circle. You'll get to know classmates with different academic interests from your own, or who grew up in parts of the world you've never visited. No matter how distant your hometowns, you'll find common ground at Harvard. Multicultural Organizations Harvard has more than fifty cultural, ethnic, and international student organizations. We also have groups representing dozens of religious and political perspectives. Throughout the year, these groups sponsor events and activities celebrating their identities and beliefs. Often these are open to the entire Harvard community, adding to the richness of life on campus. Spiritual Life Harvard offers numerous ways to explore religious and spiritual life for students of all faith traditions. There are more than thirty on-campus chaplains representing religions from around the world. In addition, student groups allow you to practice and explore your faith alongside likeminded peers. View the list of all student organizations Undocumented Resources You Are Welcome Harvard embraces all students, regardless of your country of origin or immigration status. Immigration status does not factor into decisions about admissions and financial aid. Learn more Undocumented at Harvard Act on a Dream Undocumented at Harvard  Recruitment Programs Fostering a diverse student body is central to Harvard's mission. We want to educate the leaders and thinkers of the future. That means creating a learning environment that reflects the dynamic, multicultural, intersectional nature of the world. Harvard has established several programs and initiatives to help our diverse campus community to thrive. Harvard Financial Aid Initiative The cost of college has traditionally been a major challenge for families with limited resources. We'd like to make that a thing of the past. The Harvard Financial Aid Initiative significantly expands aid for families who earn less than $80,000 per year. On top of that, we meet 100 percent of demonstrated need for every student for all four years. You've worked extremely hard to get into Harvard. You shouldn't have to struggle to pay for it. Learn more about HFAI Undergraduate Minority Recruitment Program This program provides additional support for minority middle- and high-school students. The staff is composed of current undergraduates who can share their experiences and help you navigate the application process. Other services include tours, information sessions, and overnight visits. Learn more about the UMRP Harvard First Generation Program If you plan to be the first in your family to attend college, you deserve a lot of credit. You might also want to talk to someone who has been in your position before. We're here to help. Learn more about the HFGP Harvard College Connection For any student who has concerns about fitting in at Harvard, the Harvard College Connection is here to help. The HCC bolsters ongoing efforts to ensure that students from every socioeconomic background know about college and financial aid options, at Harvard and elsewhere. Learn more about the HCC Campus Resources It's easy enough to say that everyone belongs. Ensuring that you feel like a valued member of the community takes a little more doing—but we're up to the task. Every student has access to specialized advising and programming related to inclusion. Here are a few other offices that might help you feel more at home. Office of Diversity Education and Support We hope to shape a community that is more inclusive, more welcoming, and more comfortable for everyone. Our staff is available to meet one-on-one with any student who may be looking for support related to issues of identity and belonging at Harvard. Learn more about the Office of Diversity Education and Support Office of BGLTQ Student Life We provide support, resources, and leadership development for bisexual, gay, lesbian, transgender, queer, and questioning students. Learn more about the Office of BGLTQ Student Life Harvard College Women's Center The Women's Center fosters community through conferences, workshops, mentorship, meals, and networking events. They explore women's and gender issues, forge connections, and promote mutual understanding around women’s advancement. Learn more about the Harvard College Women's Center Learn More About Harvard Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch. Sign Up Related Topics Life at Harvard From the moment first-year students walk into Harvard Yard until they graduate, they are surrounded by people dedicated to making Harvard “home.”  Mission, Vision, & History Our mission is to educate the citizens and citizen-leaders for our society through the transformative power of a liberal arts education.  Student Stories Read stories from current students about their intellectual, social, and personal experiences at Harvard.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Skip to site header Skip to main content