Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Enrichment / Senior Week Senior Week Celebrate the Class of 2022, March 14th - March 18th Celebrate the Class of 2022 with a week of activities designed to help you prepare for Commencement and beyond! Senior Week Kick-Off Monday, March 14th | 11:00 am - 1:00 pm | Pocket Park Stop by to reflect on your time at Tulane with the Office of Academic Enrichment! Write thank you GRADitude notes to your favorite professors. Plus, enjoy free Bundt cakes and refreshments, and get class of 2022 merch! Recent Alum Panel: Helpful Hints for Navigating a New City Tuesday, March 15th | 1:00 pm - 2:00 pm | Diboll Gallery, The Commons Room 300 Learn about moving to a new city and how to navigate life after graduation from Tulane alumni. Enjoy lunch and refreshments, and pick up class of 2022 merch! Gladstone Place Partners Coffee Chat Wednesday, March 16th | 11:00 am - 1:00 pm | Mussafer 100 Gladstone Place Partners is a strategic and financial communications firm with offices in New York and San Francisco serving clients in the U.S. and across the globe. They are at the intersection of media, finance, and PR. Gladstone Place Partners strives to build long-term, trusted relationships by delivering the highest quality work product, paired with uncompromising ethics, integrity and judgment. Their work is underpinned by a culture of strong ethics, professional excellence, high integrity, meritocracy, and diversity. Join us for coffee and to learn about internships and full-time opportunities in their offices! Click here to register on Handshake. Research Pathways with Dr. Torbjörn Törnqvist Thursday, March 17th | 12:30 pm - 1:30 pm | LBC 203, Stibbs Conference Room Considering a research-based career? Come hear from Dr. Törnqvist of the Department of Earth & Environmental Sciences about how he became a researcher in his field, the challenges he has faced, what it means to be a researcher, and how you can pursue a career in research after graduation. Lunch will be provided by Olive Blue Catering, with vegan and vegetarian options available. Click here to RSVP via WaveSync. Senior Week Reflection Friday, March 17th | 11:00 am - 1:00 pm | Pocket Park As you reflect on your time at Tulane, prepare for the future with a FREE professional headshot! Enjoy fresh baked cookies from NOLA Cookie Co., and pick up Class of 2022 merch before it’s all gone! Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University