Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Academics Liberal Arts & Sciences Study Abroad On this page Overview Who Can Study Abroad? Getting Started Applying for Study Abroad Financial Aid and Summer Funding Overview A World of Opportunity Study abroad is transformative. Through international study, you will become a more informed global citizen and gain important skills that you can apply in the professional world and throughout your life. You’ll also develop lasting friendships and create lifelong memories. Who Can Study Abroad? From a full year, term, or even just a summer abroad, there are many ways to experience international study. Over half of Harvard College students participate in an international experience during their time as an undergraduate. Harvard students travel with the benefit of exceptional support. From preparation prior to your departure and on-the-ground resources, to funding support and academic advising, students can be confident that their experience will be rewarding and valuable. You must be in good academic and disciplinary standing to study abroad. Sophomores, juniors, and seniors are eligible for term-time study abroad. All students except for graduating seniors are eligible for summer study. Office of International Education The Office of International Education (OIE) advises Harvard College students on all aspects of study abroad. Visit the Office of International Education Getting Started Planning is key to a successful study abroad experience. It is never too early to begin integrating study abroad into your individual academic plan, seeking advice from advisers and your concentration, and visiting the Office of International Education for guidance. To start planning your study abroad experience, you can meet with an Office of International Education adviser during drop-in hours, which are held daily (Monday-Friday 2:00-5:00 p.m.). You can also meet with a student adviser who has already studied abroad for at least one term. Student advisers represent a variety of academic disciplines and include athletes, first-generation students, and recipients of financial aid. Griffin Financial Aid Office Contact the Griffin Financial Aid Office for guidance while planning your study abroad experience and during your time abroad. Learn more about financial aid Applying for Study Abroad Online application instructions and materials are available on the Office of International Education website. To study abroad, you must do both of the following things: Apply directly to your study abroad program or university for admission Apply to the Office of International Education for transfer credit Applications Deadlines for Transfer Credit Term Time October 1 for Spring Term study abroad March 1 for Fall Term study abroad Summer Mid-February (for students applying for both funding and credit) April 1 (for students only seeking credit) Important Approvals Your Allston Burr Resident Dean and appropriate academic departments must approve proposed study abroad coursework. This ensures that advising conversations take place before you receive approval to study abroad. Your Office of International Education advisers will help you to understand the process and answer specific questions. Financial Aid and Summer Funding Students receiving financial aid from Harvard can transfer their financial aid from Harvard to an approved term-time study abroad program. Students seeking to study abroad in the summer can also apply for competitive summer grants and funding available at the College from a variety of sources. To begin searching for funding for summer study abroad, visit the Harvard College Funding Sources Database for available options. frequently asked financial aid questions for study abroad Will it cost more to study abroad? In most cases it will not cost more to study abroad. With a few exceptions, most study abroad programs cost less than a semester at Harvard. Students who receiving financial aid from Harvard can bring their aid with them to their study abroad program or host institution meaning that they will pay the same amount they would have paid to study at Harvard. Students who do not receive financial aid from Harvard will simply pay for the cost of the study abroad program (and won’t be charged for the semester that they are away from Harvard). Can I use financial aid to study abroad during the summer? Harvard’s financial aid program is only available for term-time for-credit study. Funding for summer experiences is available from a wide variety of offices and programs at Harvard. Good places to start include the Office of Career Services, the CARAT funding sources database, and the Office of Undergraduate Research and Fellowships. Tour Related Stories Summer in the Land of Cappuccinos and Vino Author: Jake Schwencke Class of '21  Studying Abroad: A Love Letter to the Harvard Beijing Academy Author: Kalos Chu Class of '23  What I remember about studying abroad at Oxford Author: Liz Tenrai Class of '19  View all student stories Related Topics Financial Aid The Griffin Financial Aid Office provides need-based aid that allows us to bring the best students to Harvard, regardless of their ability to pay.  Advising Your advisors can help you you plan your degree program or take advantage of unique academic opportunities such as study abroad.  Research As a college within a research university, Harvard undergraduates have access to unparalleled research opportunities. Learn about research at Harvard.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Skip to site header Skip to main content