Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Junior Week Junior Week Celebrate the Class of 2023, January 31 - February 4 The Class of 2023 Junior Week will begin Monday, January 31. Prepare for a week full of special events and informational lunches to prepare you for your Senior year! Junior Week Kick-Off Monday, January 31st | 11:00 am - 1:00 pm | Pocket Park Warm up and start the week with a hot chocolate, coffee, and cider bar! Learn about upcoming events and opportunities with the Office of Academic Enrichment! Informational Lunch with Career Services Tuesday, February 1st | 1:00 pm | Mussafer Hall 100 Listen to a presentation from Career Services about how to identify your values, interests, and skills. Lunch will be served to-go for attendees. Lunch with Fellowship Advising Wednesday, February 2nd | 1:00 pm | Mussafer Hall 100 Listen to a presentation from Fellowship Advising about postgrad fellowships. Lunch will be served to-go for attendees. Honors Thesis Informational Session Thursday, February 3rd | 1:00 pm | Mussafer Hall 100 Thinking about an Honors Thesis? This year-long intensive research project is a chance to take a deep dive into a topic you’re passionate about, under the guidance of Tulane’s world-class faculty. Any NTC student with at least a 3.4 cumulative and 3.5 major GPA is eligible to write a thesis and earn departmental honors. Attend this info session to learn more! Lunch will be served to-go for attendees. Front Porch Friday Friday, February 4th | 10:30am - 12:00 pm | Cudd Hall Join Newcomb-Tulane College and the Office of Academic Enrichment for snacks and coffee on the Cudd Hall porch! The College Academics Support Enrichment Events News Give to NTC Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University