Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Admissions Why Harvard Innovation On this page Overview Research Engineering and Applied Sciences Innovation Labs Sustainability Overview From the moment you step onto Harvard's campus, you're surrounded by innovation. Join the world’s future leaders in science and technology, take part in groundbreaking conversations and research in the humanities and social sciences, and push boundaries through inventive visual and performing arts. From funding to physical spaces, Harvard provides the resources and support for students and faculty to follow their curiosity as they experiment, investigate, and explore their world. Research Wherever your interests lie—in the sciences, social sciences, arts, or humanities—conducting original research opens transformative possibilities. Whether you choose to conduct your own research or assist with a faculty project, we will help find the funding to support you. In recent years, students received over $7 million in research funding from a variety of international centers, specialized science initiatives, and academic departmental resources. Our students work directly with Harvard faculty to broaden their studies and contribute to their chosen fields. You can pursue research as early as your first year for academic credit or as paid employment. Learn more about undergraduate research Engineering and Applied Sciences The Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) is a diverse community of learners, leaders, and scientists working to address the most pressing issues of our time. SEAS helps students become “renaissance engineers,” exploring a wide range of academic disciplines and approaching every endeavor critically and contextually. With more than two dozen University buildings used exclusively for scientific research, students have access to a variety of labs and research centers. In 2020, SEAS expanded into a purpose-built facility in Allston. The 500,000+ square foot complex features state-of-the-art classrooms, active learning labs, maker space, faculty labs, community space, and a café. Green design makes it one of the most environmentally sustainable facilities of its kind. Read more about the SEAS campus expansion Research Explore SEAS The Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences offers an unparalleled opportunity to be part of an excellent engineering school inside of one of the world’s foremost research universities. Visit seas.harvard.edu Innovation Labs Whether you’re here to explore the world of game-changing entrepreneurship, or simply interested in learning about innovation more broadly, the Harvard Innovation Labs will support your endeavors. Students can take advantage of office hours with faculty mentors and industry, attend community events and workshops, and share thoughtfully-designed meeting and lab spaces, including: The i-lab, a dynamic, full-service space for current Harvard students interested in actively pursuing innovation and entrepreneurship. Launch Lab X, a groundbreaking new accelerator inside the i-lab for eligible Harvard alumni leading promising early-stage startup ventures. The Pagliuca Harvard Life Lab for Harvard students, faculty, and alumni working on high-potential life sciences and biotech startups. The ArtLab for faculty, students, and artists to collaborate across media and academic boundaries to host exhibitions and performances, bringing together Harvard, its growing Allston campus, and the surrounding community Sustainability Harvard is proud to lead the charge in environmental research and policy initiatives. In 2008, Harvard announced a goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by thirty percent by the year 2016. We met that goal, and are working on new sustainability goals for the next chapter in Harvard's history. Working on an innovative sustainability project or have a great idea? Apply for a student sustainability grant from the Office for Sustainability to make it a reality. Students and faculty work side by side to craft sustainable policies and develop new ways to reduce energy usage both at Harvard and in the wider world. Your work helps Harvard achieve its environmental goals, and paves the way for a brighter future for our entire planet. Related Topics Research As a college within a research university, Harvard undergraduates have access to unparalleled research opportunities. Learn about research at Harvard.  Arts & Humanities Learning about the arts and humanities provides a vital foundation from which to explore and understand our world.  Faculty Harvard students have access to some of the world’s greatest scholars. Learn more about our faculty and their impactful role in the College community.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Skip to site header Skip to main content