Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Admissions Explore Harvard On this page Overview Visiting Campus Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect with Current Students Overview See Yourself at Harvard Harvard may be the oldest college in the country, but it's certainly not a museum. Our community's spirit and exuberance are alive in every corner of the campus, and we can't wait to show you what makes Harvard a school like no other. Regardless of whether you can visit campus, there are many ways to explore beautiful Harvard Yard, learn from enthusiastic students, and discover life in historic Cambridge, Massachusetts. Check out the options below. Visiting Campus This summer, we are pleased to bring back campus visits. A campus visit consists of the one-hour information session led by an admissions officer and 1-2 current undergraduate students, followed by a one-hour campus tour led by a student. Sign up for an on-campus visit Transportation Details Public Transit (MBTA) From Logan Airport For travel by subway, take the SILVER LINE to South Station. Then switch to the RED LINE (inbound toward Alewife). Travel six stops to HARVARD SQUARE. The subway ride from Logan Airport takes about 45 minutes and the fare is $2.00. By taxi, the ride will take about 20 to 30 minutes to reach Harvard Square, depending on traffic, and will cost about $35. From South Station (bus/train) Take the RED LINE (inbound toward Alewife) and travel six stops to HARVARD SQUARE. Driving & Parking Traffic in and around Harvard Square can be heavy, and parking is limited so plan accordingly. On-street / metered parking: On-street parking in Cambridge is available, but scarce. Parking meters run from one to two hours, and will take quarters only. The Admissions Office cannot make change and does not maintain a supply of coins, so please bring quarters with you. A further advisory: Cambridge parking violations start at $25.00, and meters are monitored closely by transportation officers. We do not reimburse visitors for parking tickets you may acquire. Please call ahead to the parking venue you’re considering, because parking spots fill up quickly during peak season. Commercial garages offering daily parking: Pilgrim Parking, 41 Church Street, Cambridge, MA, 617-661-5614 University Place Garage, 124 Mt. Auburn Street, Cambridge, MA 617-491-0801 The Charles Hotel Garage, 1 Bennett Street, Cambridge, MA 617-864-1200 Campus parking options: You may purchase a pass online for Harvard garages on Oxford Street and Broadway (7 Felton Street in Cambridge). You will need a printer to complete this transaction. When prompted, select: Department: Admin. & Financial Aid Department Code: 3003 See additional campus parking information. For visitors with disabilities: For parking requests based on disability or medical conditions, please contact the University Disability Coordinator at 617-495-1859 or email disabilityservices@harvard.edu 7-10 days before your planned visit. Hotels Around the Square We have compiled a list of local hotels below that may be helpful to you as you make plans for your visit. Within walking distance The Charles Hotel ($$$; ask for the special campus visit rate) 617-864-1200/800-882-1818 Sheraton Commander Hotel ($$) 617-547-4800/800-535-5007 Harvard Square Hotel ($-$$$) 617-864-5200/800-458-5886 Irving House ($) 617-547-4699/877-547-4600 Hotel Veritas ($$$) 617-520-5000 Harvard Faculty Club ($$$) 617-495-5758 Within three miles of Harvard Double Tree Guest Suites ($$) 617-783-0090/800-754-7515 Freepoint Hotel ($; ask for Harvard admissions rate) 617-491-8000/855-752-2005 Hyatt Regency Cambridge ($$) 617-492-1234/800-233-1234 Cambridge Marriott ($$) 617-494-6600/800-228-9290 Courtyard By Marriott Boston/Cambridge ($$) 617-492-7777 The Kendall Hotel ($-$$) 617-577-1300 The Mary Prentiss Inn ($-$$) 617-661-2929 Studio Allston Hotel ($-$$; ask for Harvard admissions rate) 617-440-3274/617-206-1848 Sheraton Boston Hotel ($) 617-236-2000/866-716-8120 Le Meridien Cambridge ($) 617-577-0200/866-716-8119 Holiday Inn Boston-Bunker Hill ($) 617-628-1000/877-840-7557 ($)=$100-$200 ($$)=$200-$300 ($$$)=$300+ Online Information Sessions We invite you to learn more about Harvard College by attending one of our online information sessions. In our online information sessions, an admission officer and an undergraduate student will present information and answer questions about academics, student life, admissions and financial aid at Harvard College. For the summer of 2022, these are primarily targeted to international students, though all are welcome! Sign up for an online information session Tour Virtual Tour Student guides lead you through the places they live and learn, including dorm rooms, classrooms, Widener Library, the first-year dining hall and more. Take the virtual tour Connect with Current Students From world-renowned professors to world-class friendships, students at Harvard find a community that embraces them, challenges them, and exposes them to new ideas daily. With so many opportunities afforded to our students, the Harvard experience is unique for every undergraduate. Do you have questions about what it’s like to be a student at Harvard? Our student coordinators are here to provide a first-hand perspective about affordability, diversity, student life, and more. We encourage you to reach out to our students by submitting a contact form and a student will be in touch with you as soon as possible. Keep in mind that response times may be delayed during student breaks in May, late August, December, and January. Select a group to contact: Undergraduate Minority Recruitment Program The Undergraduate Minority Recruitment Program (UMRP) is sponsored by the Admissions Office. The UMRP focuses on expanding awareness of and providing information about our diverse campus community and the application process at Harvard College to minority middle and high school students. Staffed by current undergraduates, the UMRP fields questions about the Harvard College experience, as well as the application process. We also arrange on-campus and overnight visits, in addition to special information sessions and tours. The UMRP at Harvard College is not directly involved in the admissions process or any decisions concerning the acceptance of prospective students. Learn more and contact the UMRP Harvard Financial Aid Initiative We are committed to ensuring all admitted students have the opportunity to attend Harvard, regardless of the economic obstacles they have encountered. We launched the Harvard Financial Aid Initiative (HFAI) in 2004 to enhance this effort and to raise awareness of college affordability for students interested in all kinds of colleges and universities. Our student coordinators are eager to discuss student life, the basics of financial aid policy, and the specifics of the Harvard application. Learn more and contact HFAI Harvard First Generation Program The Admissions and Financial Aid Office’s Harvard First Generation Program (HFGP) focuses on directing college awareness to future first-generation college students. Our HFGP coordinators will provide support and information as you begin to navigate the college application process. Contact us with any questions about admissions, financial aid, or first-gen life at Harvard. Learn more and contact the HFGP Harvard College Connection The Harvard College Connection (HCC) is an Admissions Office initiative to use digital media to reach out to promising students and encourage them to apply to Harvard. The HCC bolsters ongoing efforts to ensure that students from every socioeconomic background know about college and financial aid options, at Harvard and elsewhere. Learn more and contact the HCC Places we love People from the Harvard community share their favorite spots on campus - from the Harvard Forest to the new Smith Campus Center. Read the Gazette article Student Stories Hidden Jewels: My Favorite Study Spots (Part 1) Author: Choetsow Tenzin Class of '23  A Museum Junkie's Guide to Harvard Author:  Leaving the "Harvard Bubble" Author: Marilynn Miguel Class of '23  View all student stories Learn More About Harvard Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch. Sign Up Related Topics Virtual Tour If you can't make it to Cambridge to visit us, don't worry. Our virtual tour takes you around campus and into residential halls, classrooms, and more.  Connect With Students Do you have questions about what it’s like to be a student at Harvard? Our student coordinators are here to provide a first-hand perspective.  Cambridge & Boston Harvard students have access to events, museums, music, and more. Explore the opportunities the dynamic cities of Cambridge and Boston have to offer.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Skip to site header Skip to main content