Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard This video does not contain audio. Breadcrumb Guides Guide to Student Employment Finding a Student Job Finding a rewarding and fulfilling job at Harvard is simple, and we're here to help. The Student Employment Office (SEO) maintains a database of job opportunities for both undergraduate and graduate students, regardless of their financial aid status. Job opportunities are plentiful and wide-ranging, both on and off campus. On campus, you can work with a faculty member as a research assistant, lead tours for the Admissions Office, work in the stacks at one of more than 60 libraries, or learn to run a business at the student operated Harvard Student Agencies. Off campus, you can tutor and mentor high school students in the Boston area, conduct research at Massachusetts General Hospital, help the homeless at a local shelter, or babysit for a local family. Whatever your interests may be, there is likely a job available. Start your search by visiting the jobs database to connect with employers both on and off-campus. Learn more on the Student Employment Office website. Loic Anderegg (left) and Yicheng Bao work with lasers in the Doyle Lab. Finding a Research Opportunity Many students pursue a research opportunity instead of a standard job. There are a variety of opportunities for undergraduates to pursue research projects – either independently or as a research assistant for a faculty member. Some positions are paid while others are volunteer, and some research opportunities qualify for funding to which you apply separately. Graduate students are encouraged to speak directly with faculty members at their particular school to inquire about available positions. Paid Research Assistant Positions Start by searching the Jobs Database for these paid positions. Since not all faculty members or departments use the SEO Jobs Database to post positions, you may also want to visit individual academic department websites to see if positions are posted there or contact a faculty member directly. Independent Research Pursue an independent research project with a Harvard faculty member as a research mentor and apply for funding to support your endeavors. Visit the Office of Undergraduate Research and Fellowships for more information and consult the Funding Database -also known as CARAT- to learn more about specific grants. Research for Class Credit Discuss this option (often as a 91R) with your academic advisor or Director of Undergraduate Studies. Faculty Aide Program Interested in just getting started with research? Have a specific professor to work with in mind? Consider asking your professor to apply for the Faculty Aide Program, which provides funding to let you work on a faculty member's research project. The Harvard i-lab is a resource available to all current students from any Harvard school who are looking to explore innovation and entrepreneurship at any stage. Federal Work-Study Program The Federal Work-Study Program (FWSP) is a federally-funded financial aid program available to US citizens and permanent residents. The mandate of the program is to assist students with the cost of their college education by providing a subsidy to employers for part-time student employment. The program is dependent on the student applying for financial aid through the FAFSA and qualifying based on their financial need. Many students are confused by the term ‘work-study’ and think that they are eligible for this benefit simply based on the grounds that they are working while studying at college. In fact, FWSP refers specifically to the federally-funded financial aid program designed to help students meet their education costs by making it easier to find part-time on and off campus jobs. Search for FWSP jobs in the Jobs Database. Related Guides Understanding Your Financial Aid Award Let's review some of our financial aid terminology to help you fully understand your financial aid award letter.  Guide to Preparing for College Find information about selecting high school courses that best prepare you for liberal arts colleges with high academic demographic such as Harvard.  Financial Literacy Financial literacy: The more you know, and the more tools you have at your disposal, the better prepared you will be for life now and after Harvard.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you.