Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Guides Navigating Campus Day-to-Day Above: Booking a Space Whether you need a private space to study or a gathering space for your organization, you can book a study space around campus: RoomBook: The Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) general space scheduling system. Library Space Finder: This library space finder will make finding a quiet study space quick and efficient. Smith Campus Center: While the Welcome Pavilion and the Arcade within the Smith Campus Center (SCC) are open to the public, other spaces require a valid Harvard University I.D. Card. Harvard affiliate reservations can be made via the Harvard Affiliate Portal by current students, faculty, academic personnel, and staff. Justin Ide Student Life & Resources Provided below are some quick links that can be helpful when trying to navigate life on campus: College Events Calendar: A place to find all of the happenings on campus. Dining Hall Menu: Find out what is on the menu at the dining halls this week. Food Truck Schedule: You can find different food trucks parked outside of the Science Center Plaza everyday—see what is on the menu for the week. Shuttle Tracker: The shuttle tracker can help you plan your day around campus with ease. See when the next shuttle is coming! theHub: An easy place to search everything Harvard from organizations to events to news. Crimson Cash: Crimson Cash is the safest, fastest, easiest way to buy the things you need including at select Off-Campus merchants, on campus retail and dining locations, vending machines, laundry, copying and printing (see website for list). Using this website, you can quickly Add Value online, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If you have a Harvard ID, then you already have a Crimson Cash account! CrimZone Student Rewards App: CrimZone Rewards is an app that rewards Harvard students for supporting Harvard Athletics and attending various events. Find Available Laundry Machines: LaundryView will help you find the available laundry machines on-campus making laundry day way less stressful. Discounts There are many expenses that come with transitioning to College. These links below provides students resources to help alleviate the costs including discounts on books, technology, and meals: Textbooks Cheapest Textbooks Harvard Library Services & Tools Harvard COOP Rentals GoogleScholar Technology Harvard University Information Technology (HUIT) Computer & Software Discounts Computer Loan Form Computer Reimbursement Form Food BoardPlus Free Coffee on Campus: The Queen's Head has free coffee during lunch hours, and Memorial Church serves free coffee on weekday mornings in Tercentenary Theater. Gutman Library also has free coffee, tea, and snacks during exams period. DAPA Deals: Watch out for "DAPA Deals" offering discounts to restaurants in Harvard Square around special events like Harvard-Yale and Yardfest. First-Year Resources Your first year of College is unique. Here are some links for new students with guidance, programming, and resources to help them transition to Harvard: Academic Resource Center (ARC): The ARC offers programming specifically for first-year students to help you get the most out of this exciting and unique time. Class of 2026 Facebook: Connect with your classmates in your class-specific Facebook group. Exploring Concentrations: Harvard College offers more than 3,700 courses in 50 undergraduate fields of study, which we call concentrations. Explore the learning opportunties each concentration offers. Expos: Learn more about the Harvard College Writing Program and the first-year writing requirements. First-Year Advising: All first-year students have an advising network that includes afirst-year academic adviser. Your first-year advising network will help you transition to college academics, assist you in navigating Harvard's resources and in exploring curricular and co-curricular opportunities, and help you plan for your choice of concentration. First-Year Experience Office: As a first-year student you can take advantage of programs and activities planned just for you. Freshman Seminars: Freshman Seminars cover a wide range of topics in a vast number of fields and disciplines. New-Student Communications: Email is the primary communication channel used by Harvard administrators. Learn more about the communications you as a first-year can expect from the College. Set up your IT accounts: Get yourself set up for campus arrival and classes via this Harvard University Information Technology (HUIT) site. Health & Wellness Support Harvard is dedicated to caring for members of the Harvard community, including its students. This list of resources cover the many ways in which you can seek care: Health Services CrimsonClear Urgent Care Harvard University Health Services Schedule an appointment at HUHS Mental Health Services Counseling & Mental Health Services (CAMHS) Schedule an appointment at CAMHS Center for Wellness College Title IX Office Harvard Chaplains Alcohol & Other Drug Services Office for Gender Equity Get Mental Health Help Now Peer Support Contact ECHO Indigo Response Room 13 Exercise & Wellness Center for Wellness Massage & Acupuncture Mindfulness & Meditation Fitness Facilities Group Exercise Classes Fitness Assessment Support Services Harvard works to holistically support students who are experiencing difficulties and to ensure the general well-being of the student body. Please explore the links on the left for information about disability, learning, health, and wellness: BGLTQ Student Life: The Office of BGLTQ Student Life serves as a central resource for bisexual, gay, lesbian, transgender, queer, and questioning (BGLTQ) students at Harvard College. Counseling & Mental Health Services (CAMHS): CAMHS is an office dedicated to promoting students' mental health. You can call the CAMHS Cares 24/7 mental health support line at (617) 495-2042 and follow the prompts to speak on the phone with a CAMHS Cares mental health provider. This option is available to you 24/7. Financial Aid: The Griffin Financial Aid Office provides need-based aid that allows us to bring the best students to Harvard, regardless of their ability to pay. Harvard Chaplains: The Harvard Chaplains, a professional community of more than thirty chaplains, represent many of the world’s religious, spiritual, and ethical traditions, and share a collective commitment to serving the spiritual needs of the students, faculty, and staff of Harvard University. Harvard University Health Services (HUHS): The HUHS team works closely with you to provide high-quality outpatient care in a friendly, comfortable environment. Harvard University Police Department: The mission of the Harvard University Police Department is to maintain a safe and secure campus by providing quality policing in partnership with the community. Harvard University Campus Escort Program: The Harvard University Campus Escort Program (HUCEP) is a campus safety program developed by Harvard College in partnership with the Harvard University Police Department. Escorts respond to both calls for service through the HUCEP hotline (617) 385-8237, and by being flagged down by students, faculty and staff in need of an escort. International Students: The Harvard International Office (HOI) is dedicated to serving Harvard's international population. Office for Gender Equity (OGE): The Office for Gender Equity works to advance Harvard’s commitment to providing an environment where each of us feels safe to participate fully in University life—whether studying, teaching, conducting research, or working to support our individual and collective goals. 24-Hour Harvard Hotline: (617) 495-9100 Peer Counseling: All Peer Counseling Groups are for currently registered Harvard undergraduate students. Title IX Coordinators: Title IX Resource Coordinators serve in a neutral role, support all members of the Harvard community, and are expert resources around the University’s policies, procedures, and resources in the realm of sexual harassment and other sexual misconduct. Longwood Ombuds: The Harvard Ombuds Office, Longwood supports an ethical and civil culture, encouraging mutual understanding and resolution through respectful dialogue and fair processes. University Ombudsman: The Harvard Ombuds Office is an independent, neutral and confidential place for visitors to discuss their academic and workplace issues and concerns. Related Guides Guide to Student Wellness Groups Harvard also has several student wellness groups, that promote and advocate for mental health and wellbeing for all students on campus.  Harvard Terms and Acronyms As a Harvard student, you may be exposed to the many acronyms, terms, and general lingo that are specific only to the Harvard experience.  Guide to Student Employment Finding a rewarding and fulfilling student job at Harvard is simple, and the Harvard Student Employment Office (SEO) is here to help.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you.