Skip to main content OnView: Digital Collections & Exhibits Search Browse Items Browse Exhibits Browse Collections Collection Tree Strong Medicine Contribute Transcribe About the Center Browse Items Browse Exhibits Browse Collections Collection Tree Strong Medicine Contribute Transcribe About the Center Emerson Respirator “Iron Lung” serial number TC1, circa 1940s Dublin Core Title Emerson Respirator “Iron Lung” serial number TC1, circa 1940s Subject Respiration Equipment and Supplies Lung Description The original “iron lung” respirator was designed by Phillip Drinker with Louis Agassiz Shaw at the Harvard School of Public Health. Its first clinical use occurred on October 12, 1928 at the Boston Children’s Hospital. The subject was an eight-year-old polio victim. In spite of her near-death condition, she recovered within less than a minute of being placed in the chamber. She remained in the respirator for 5 days before dying of cardiac failure. In September 1929 Barrett Hoyt, a Harvard senior dying of polio in the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, was placed in the Drinker respirator and immediately began breathing normally. After four weeks in the lung, Hoyt made a complete recovery. Drinker assigned his respirator patent to Boston manufacturer Warren E. Collins, who began production of the device. In 1931, John Haven Emerson created an improved, less expensive iron lung. By 1935 he had successfully challenged Drinker’s patent and his version was in widescale production from the 1930s through the 1970s. The serial number on this Emerson model, TC1, indicates that it was the first one produced of this particular design. Date Circa 1940s Rights The Harvard Medical Library does not hold copyright on all the materials in the collection. For use information, contact the Warren Anatomical Museum Curator at chm@hms.harvard.edu Access Rights Accessing collections in the Warren Anatomical Museum and the Warren Anatomical Museum archive requires advanced notice. Please submit a request to Public Services at chm@hms.harvard.edu to access the displayed item Is Part Of Warren Anatomical Museum Format object Extent 1 Object Medium Medical Instruments, Equipment, and Devices Type physical object Identifier Warren Anatomical Museum Catalog Number: 22031 Files Collection Warren Anatomical Museum Citation “Emerson Respirator “Iron Lung” serial number TC1, circa 1940s,” OnView: Digital Collections & Exhibits, accessed June 1, 2022, https://collections.countway.harvard.edu/onview/items/show/26593. Item Relations This item has no relations. Transcribe This Item 22031.jpg ← Previous Item Next Item → Center for the History of Medicine Countway Library of Medicine 10 Shattuck St. Boston, MA 02115 617-432-2170 chm@hms.harvard.edu Reproduction & Use Policies Please note that some OnView collections and exhibits include items from the Boston Medical Library. For questions or requests related to Boston Medical Library items, please contact: info@bostonmedicallibrary.org Browse Items Browse Exhibits Browse Collections Collection Tree Strong Medicine Contribute Transcribe About the Center Proudly powered by Omeka.