Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Video description: A student looking at a piece of artwork in the Harvard Art Museums Breadcrumb Admissions Why Harvard Arts & Humanities On this page Overview Arts & Humanities Division Theater and Dance Music Visual Arts Arts Innovation Overview Where will your curiosity lead you? No matter what your academic or professional goals may be, the arts and humanities provide a vital foundation from which to explore and understand our world. Arts & Humanities Division The twenty-one departments in the Arts and Humanities are dedicated to exploring every aspect of human culture, from literature, philosophy, and religion, to architecture, languages, and music. Whether you want to practice law or medicine, start a business, or dedicate yourself to public service, a foundation in the arts and humanities gives you the insight and critical thinking skills to live a life of purpose, express yourself with ease, and appreciate your role in the world. "Reading and writing – apparently simple tasks – play such a powerful role in the formation of a soul equally capable of invention, witness, transformation, and resistance."* Outside the classroom, Harvard’s music, dance, and theater scene includes a mix of student-led and faculty-led groups. All groups perform at a variety of venues, and many take their productions on tour nationally and around the world. The Office for the Arts (OFA) at Harvard oversees a thriving arts community and integrates the arts into university life. Through its programs and services, the OFA teaches and mentors, fosters student art making, connects you to accomplished artists, commissions new work, and collaborates with local, national, and international constituencies. *Quote by: Jorie Graham, Boylston Professor of Rhetoric and Oratory in the Dept. of English, and Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Explore the Arts & Humanities Division Spotlight on the Humanities Video This preview video does not contain audio. Watch "Spotlight on the Humanities at Harvard" Video End of embedded content Theater and Dance Perform in any of more than sixty theatrical and dance productions each year, ranging from Broadway musicals and Shakespearean tragedies to experimental pieces and original student plays. Our facilities include concert halls, proscenium and black-box theaters, dance and recording studios, rehearsal spaces, and practice rooms. Creative Expression Theater, Dance, and Media - one of Harvard's newest concentrations - is just one of the many pathways in the arts and humanities. In the Theater, Dance & Media concentration, you can refine your craft, develop your own productions, and participate in professional departmental productions. The Office for the Arts Dance Program offers noncredit classes in modern dance, ballet, jazz, tap, choreography, and improvisation. You can take choreography courses for credit, or join one of more than twenty dance companies. Music The Department of Music offers courses in music theory, composition, ethnomusicology, and performance, and our dual enrollment programs with the New England Conservatory and the Berklee College of Music enable you to pursue a Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) and a Master of Music (M.M.) in just five years. Join one of seven orchestras, two jazz bands, a marching band, a concert band, a gospel choir, a glee club, many a cappella groups, several jazz combos, or a madrigal vocal ensemble. Learn more about our dual degree music programs Campus Harvard Art Museums From the Harvard Art Museums—contained in Renzo Piano's stunning building that is itself a work of art—to the natural beauty of the Arnold Arboretum, art, history, science, and culture are always on display at Harvard’s many museums. View a list of all Harvard museums Visual Arts Our Department of Art, Film, and Visual Studies offers instruction and workshops, as well as studios and exhibition spaces for painting, drawing, printmaking and sculpture, ceramics, photography, and filmmaking. The department has a strong commitment to fostering dialogue among makers, critics, and theorists. Studying the visual arts within a liberal arts setting allows you to gain an understanding of the structure and meaning of the visual arts through both study and practice. Arts Innovation In addition to academic offerings in the arts, the University is expanding opportunities for artistic exploration with the new ArtLab, featuring spaces that allow faculty, students, and artists to collaborate across media and academic disciplines, bringing together Harvard, our growing Allston campus, and the surrounding community. Harvard Innovation Labs Related Topics Life at Harvard From the moment first-year students walk into Harvard Yard until they graduate, they are surrounded by people dedicated to making Harvard “home.”  Student Activities Join one of our more than 450 student organizations, get involved in intramural athletics, or explore leadership and service opportunities.  Student Stories Read stories from current students about their intellectual, social, and personal experiences at Harvard.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Skip to site header Skip to main content