Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard 55% of students receive need-based Harvard scholarships. 1 in 5 pays nothing to attend. Breadcrumb Financial Aid How Aid Works Types of Aid On this page Overview Scholarships & Grants Outside Awards Student Employment Loans Overview Many Ways to Support Your Education Your financial aid package is made up of a combination of scholarship (grant) funds, student employment, and any potential outside awards. Loans are never required, but are available to interested families. We will work with your family one-on-one to help you navigate options and make sure Harvard is an affordable option for your undergraduate education. Scholarships & Grants When you qualify for financial aid from Harvard, we use a combination of resources to create an individualized aid package to meet your demonstrated need. This may include scholarship funds and student employment, as well as any awards you’ve earned from outside sources. Parent and student loans are also available for interested families. Because Harvard is committed to affordability, our scholarships are designed to cover 100% of your demonstrated financial need. Here is our process: First we determine your award by establishing your parent contribution Then we factor in student employment and any outside awards you’ve received Your remaining need will be covered by scholarship funds which are grant-based and never need to be repaid Scholarship funds come from a variety of sources, including Harvard endowment funds, gifts from alumni, general tuition revenues, and federal and state grants. The Faculty of Arts and Sciences Scholarship program includes more than 2,000 individual endowment and gift funds, established by generous alumni and donors, including a transformational $150 million gift from Ken Griffin ‘89. We report to many of these donors annually using the information students share with us over the summer. Federal and state grants If you are a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, you may be eligible for a Federal Pell Grant or a Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG). Your eligibility is determined by the information you provide in your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Pell Grants and SEOG are awarded by the federal government and administered by our office, based on financial need. Within 10 days of filing your FAFSA, you will receive a Student Aid Report indicating your eligibility for a Pell Grant. In a typical year, roughly 17% of Harvard College students are Pell Grant recipients. If you are a Massachusetts resident, you may also be eligible for a state Gilbert Grant, which is awarded on the basis of need. These awards do not affect your term-time work expectation. View our guide on how to complete the FAFSA Outside Awards Scholarships and Grants from Outside Harvard Like many of our students, you may receive scholarship funds from sources outside Harvard, such as secondary schools, civic organizations, your parental employers, corporations, the National Merit Scholarship Programs, VA Benefits, and the ROTC. Since the intent of these awards is that they be used for educational purposes, you must report them to Harvard and apply them toward your college expenses. We will consider your outside awards as a part of your overall financial aid funding. Funds from outside awards are incorporated into your financial aid package in two steps: First to replace the term-time job expectation. If you have outside awards that exceed your term-time work expectation the remaining amount would replace an equal amount of Harvard scholarship. Since outside awards are additional resources that reduce your financial need, they cannot be used to replace your parent contribution. Report your outside awards through the Outside Awards Reporting System. Find where to send checks and Verification of Enrollment forms on our website. How to find outside awards Use these resources to find outside award opportunities: College Board: The College Board has launched a scholarship program with $5 million in scholarships offered each year. Fastweb!: Create a personalized profile that can be matched against a database of more than 1.5 million scholarships totaling more than $3.4 billion, and get notifications of new scholarships and approaching deadlines. Scholarships.com: Search scholarships from nearly 3,000 sources, potentially worth up to $3 billion. CollegeScholarships.org: Search for scholarships and grants from many different sources, and find information on both federal and private financial aid sources. UNIGO: Find scholarships that match your hobbies, interests, and academic background in a database of 3.6 million awards worth over $14 billion. Gain tips on finding and applying for scholarships and download scholarship applications. GoodCall Scholarship Directory: Search for scholarships by a variety of key categories using GoodCall’s free scholarship matching platform. Scholarship Search by SallieMae: Access more than 5 million awards worth over $24 billion and get notifications when new scholarships become available. Calculator Calculate Your Net Price Just how affordable is Harvard for your family? Try our Net Price Calculator and get a personalized estimate in less than five minutes. Try our Net Price Calculator Student Employment All students, regardless of their financial aid status, may work during the academic year—and in fact, around two-thirds of our students do. If you receive financial aid from Harvard, you will likely be expected to contribute to your education through employment. Your expected term-time work expectation is based on your working a reasonable number of hours during the semester—often around 10 to 12 hours per week. All wages earned are paid directly to you, rather than appearing on your term bill, and can be used to help pay for your out-of-pocket personal expenses. Whatever your situation, the Student Employment Office is available to help you find work at University institutions, including libraries, museums, and cafeterias. Federal Work-Study Program When you apply for aid, your financial aid package will indicate your eligibility for the Federal Work-Study Program (FWSP). The Federal Work-Study Program subsidizes the wages of eligible students, making them particularly attractive to employers. If you are eligible, you will be able to work in FWSP-designated jobs at the University (and sometimes off campus as well). FWSP funds are available for both term-time and summer employment. Browse the Student Employment Office jobs database for FWSP eligible jobs. Go to the Student Employment Office website Loans Student Loans You are not expected to take out loans as part of your financial aid package. Our aid packages are designed to cover your financial need without additional borrowing. In fact, most of our students graduate debt-free. However, you may choose to pursue loans to help cover your student or family contribution. Students may request loans using our Student Loan Request Form. If you are interested in a loan, we will help you find one that works for you. You may also consider federal or private parent loans. Types of Student Loans for 21-22 Federal Direct Subsidized Stafford Loan To be eligible, you must be a US citizen, permanent resident or other eligible noncitizen and must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Maximum amounts: $3,500 for first-year, $4,500 for sophomores, and $5,500 for juniors and seniors. Need-based loan with interest paid by the federal government during enrollment, grace and deferment periods. Interest rate is based on the 10-year Treasury bill plus 2.05 percent. Interest is capped at 8.25 percent. Loans are “variable fixed”, meaning borrowers would receive a new rate with each new loan, but then that rate would be fixed for the life of the loan. Interest rate fixed at 3.374 percent for 2021-2022, with 10 years to repay. Net origination fee of 1.057 percent is included in the loan amount. Repayment begins six months after the student graduates or drops below half-time enrollment. Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan To be eligible, you must be a US citizen, permanent resident or other eligible noncitizen and must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Maximum amounts: $5,500 for first-year, $6,500 for sophomores, and $7,500 for juniors and seniors. Students eligible for a subsidized Stafford Loan can receive an additional $2,000 unsubsidized. Non-need-based loan with interest accruing from disbursement; interest can be paid quarterly or capitalized and added to the principal amount when repayment begins. Interest rate, fees, and repayment are the same as the Subsidized Stafford Loan. Harvard Loans The Harvard Loan is available to all need-based aid recipients, regardless of citizenship or federal aid eligibility. Need-based loan with interest paid by Harvard during enrollment, grace, and deferment period. Interest rate fixed at 4.0 percent (5.0% for loans disbursed prior to 07/01/2016) with 10 years to repay. No origination or insurance fees. Repayment begins six months after you graduate or drop below half-time enrollment. The monthly payment will be $10.61 per $1,000 borrowed, or a minimum of $50. Does not require eligibility for federal loan programs. Additional loan information See the Harvard Student Debt Management Guide Get answers to questions about Federal Direct Stafford loans Check the current federal record of your outstanding federal loans Find more information on private student loans. Parent Loans Your family may choose to pursue loans to spread the cost of education over a number of years. You can take out loans to cover the entire cost of education, or just a portion of the cost, as a supplement to contributions from family income and assets. We will help you navigate both federal and private loan options. While there are no income restrictions, you must pass standard tests of creditworthiness. All loans may be prepaid partially or in full with no penalty. If you intend to borrow a parent loan, applications are typically available after June 1st and should be submitted by August 1st in order for loan credits to be available toward registration. Please apply for only one parent loan at a time Parent Loan Details Related Topics Apply For Financial Aid We strive to make our financial aid application as streamlined as possible.  Managing Your Aid Information on taking a leave of absence, notifying us about outside awards, federal verification, and sibling verification.  Guide to Student Employment Finding a rewarding and fulfilling student job at Harvard is simple, and the Harvard Student Employment Office (SEO) is here to help.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Skip to site header Skip to main content