Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College Academic Policies Learn more about Brown’s academic policies, including the Academic Code, class attendance, writing requirement and more. Breadcrumb Home Design Your Education Sub Navigation In This Section Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Academic Code Academic Standing Advanced Placement Examinations Advanced Standing Class Attendance Leavetaking Academic Policies Learn more about Brown’s academic policies, including the Academic Code, class attendance, writing requirement and more. Academic Code Norms regarding the quality and originality of academic work are often much more stringent and demanding in college than they are in high school. All Brown students are responsible for understanding and following Brown’s academic code. Visit Page Open details for Academic Code Academic Standing "Academic standing" refers to the number of courses you are expected to complete each semester as you progress toward your degree starting with your first semester of enrollment at Brown. All undergraduates start their studies at Brown in “good” academic standing. Visit Page Open details for Academic Standing Advanced Standing To earn a Brown undergraduate degree, students who did not transfer to Brown are expected to complete eight full-time semesters of enrollment at Brown. Visit Page Open details for Advanced Standing Auditing and Vagabonding/Attendance Policy Auditing a course allows you the opportunity to take a course without receiving course credit. "Vagabonding" is the process of sitting in a course without officially registering either for credit or as an auditor. Visit Page Open details for Auditing and Vagabonding/Attendance Policy Class Attendance Course instructors have the authority to establish attendance policies for their courses. Such policies are usually published in course syllabi. Visit Page Open details for Class Attendance Class Field Trips Guidelines for transportation associated with academic field trips. Visit Page Open details for Class Field Trips Dean's Notes Faculty have jurisdiction over academic practices within their courses. However, Deans of the College and Student Support Services may at times provide dean's support notes on behalf of students who are experiencing personal or health circumstances that impact their ability to complete academic work. Visit Page Open details for Dean's Notes Double Concentrating Choosing a double concentration allows you to focus your studies in two specific areas, though all Brown students are encouraged to take courses across a variety of disciplines. Visit Page Open details for Double Concentrating Exam Excuses The dates of final exams are fixed by the Registrar so that students will not be scheduled to take multiple exams in the same time block. Students are required to take their exams at the designated time. Visit Page Open details for Exam Excuses Enrolling in Courses with Overlapping Meeting Times By Brown University Faculty Rules, Brown undergraduates may not enroll in courses with overlapping meeting times. The Registration system prevents students from doing so to enforce this faculty rule. Students may petition for an exception only in narrow circumstances. Visit Page Open details for Enrolling in Courses with Overlapping Meeting Times Grade Appeals Process On the rare occasion when consulting with the instructor does not resolve the concern, students may appeal to the chair of the department. Visit Page Open details for Grade Appeals Process Grade Changes Brown University Faculty/Instructors may submit grade changes in Undergraduate or Graduate courses for a previously submitted final grade that is less than one year from the original submission date. Visit Page Open details for Grade Changes Graduating With Honors You may qualify for a Latin honor at graduation or may apply for honors within your concentration. Visit Page Open details for Graduating With Honors Independent Credit for the First Half of a Year-long Course Year-long courses require students to complete both semesters of the course in order to receive credit for each semester. Some departments will consider petitions from students to receive credit for the first semester of the course without completing the second semester. Departments have sole authority to consider such petitions and are under no obligation to do so. Visit Page Open details for Independent Credit for the First Half of a Year-long Course Leavetaking Each year, approximately 200 Brown students take a leave of absence to engage in meaningful activities that complement their academic studies. Visit Page Open details for Leavetaking No Repeating Courses for Credit Policy Unless a course is explicitly approved by either the College Curriculum Council or Graduate Council as being able to be repeated for credit, oOnce course credit has been earned with an initial passing grade A,B,C, or Satisfactory (S) or through Transfer Credit it cannot be officially registered for again for in an effort to improve one's initial grade. Visit Page Open details for No Repeating Courses for Credit Policy Undergraduate Teaching Assistants Many academic departments employ advanced undergraduates as teaching assistants in entry-level courses. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Teaching Assistants Writing Check The "Writing Check" provides academic guidance for students who can benefit from additional writing instruction and support. Visit Page Open details for Writing Check Writing Requirement Learning to write well is a developmental process that occurs over time. For this reason, all Brown undergraduates must work on their writing with intention and focus at least twice during their undergraduate studies. Visit Page Open details for Writing Requirement Petitions in ASK The following petitions can be found in ASK: Advanced Placement requests for placement credits Brown-RISD Cross Registration petition for exception Combined A.B.-Sc.B. Degree petitions for exceptions Concurrent and combined degrees petitions for exceptions Course overlap petition for exception Course Performance Reports requests Late Course Registration petition Leaves of Absence petition Ninth Semester petition Returning from Separation petition Study Away/Transfer Credit requests for pre-approval Log in to download petitions Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Academic Policies Open details for Academic Policies Bookmark this Page