Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Events / Informative and Networking / Information Sharing and Networking Information Sharing and Networking International Education Week A week of programming in celebration of the vibrant global community that has been cultivated on our campus. International Education Week is a joint initiative of the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Department of Education and is an opportunity to celebrate the benefits of international education and exchange worldwide. Study Abroad Fair Each Fall we host a fair to showcase the opportunities that are available to students, while also highlighting the experiences of study abroad alumni, international students and visiting exchange students. Career Fair Employers from a variety of industries recruit for job and internship opportunities across all majors. Tulane Takeovers Multiple events throughout the semester across the country that connect alumni, parents and recruiters with our current students to create opportunities for networking and mentoring. Career Conversations An ongoing series with industry experts meant to spark conversation and help students identify careers of interest and learn from successful individuals. Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University