Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Video description: Teachers and students interact in the classroom Breadcrumb Admissions Why Harvard Academic Environment On this page Overview A Place of Transformation Your First Year Fields of Study Study Abroad Faculty Engagement Collaborative Research Overview Explore what makes Harvard such a unique place to live and learn. At Harvard, you'll be immersed in an environment of unlimited possibility. Explore thousands of courses. Get lost in the millions of volumes in Widener Library. Debate with classmates and professors who will open your eyes to new perspectives. Follow your imagination wherever it leads. Ready to learn more? Sign up for an online information session In these hour-long online sessions, an admission officer and an undergraduate student will share information and answer questions about academics, student life, admissions and financial aid at Harvard College. View upcoming sessions A Place of Transformation Brilliant thinkers come to Harvard to learn, challenge themselves, and grow as students and human beings. They graduate with a fuller sense of who they are and how they can use their talents. Everything at Harvard is designed to support that process of transformation. Extend your learning by taking courses at any of Harvard’s twelve graduate schools or at MIT. Conduct research as early as your first year, either during the school year or during the summer. Collaborate with peers at the Innovation Labs. Explore the full range of Harvard’s curriculum—without missing dinner with your friends. Your academic advisers help you choose your path and provide the guidance to get you where you want to go, whether you're designing a custom concentration or enriching your degree with a secondary field. Collaborative Learning Video This preview video does not contain audio. Video description: Harvard faculty share what they love about working with College students. Watch "Collaborative Learning" Video End of embedded content Academic Snapshot Academic Snapshot At Harvard you will learn in world-class laboratories, libraries, museums, and research centers. You can study abroad with your full need-based financial aid, or cross-register at most of Harvard’s 10 graduate schools. Explore cutting-edge, funded research opportunities available year-round, and receive individual guidance and support from our Office of Career Services. Quick Links Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Advising Our Faculty Our Academic Life by the Numbers Statistics 12 12 Median Class Size 7:1 7:1 Student to Faculty Ratio > 400 400 First-Year Advisers 98 98 % Graduation Rate Your First Year At Harvard, you will have the chance to choose your own academic path. You'll select from a wide range of offerings as you devise your own course of study, while advisers and mentors will help you understand your options and follow your interests. All students declare their concentrations in the middle of their sophomore year, leaving you plenty of time to explore your academic interests and curiosities. If you're like many Harvard students, one of your first choices will be to enroll in one of our 129 Freshman Seminars. These courses are capped at fifteen students, meaning you'll have plenty of close interactions with faculty members and classmates. Seminars are a great way to explore your interests, dive into the academic environment, and form relationships that will last all four years—and beyond. Fields of Study Fields of Study By your second year, you'll focus your education on a particular field of study. At many schools, this is called a major. At Harvard, it's known as a concentration. You don't have to select your concentration until midway through sophomore year. If the concentration you're interested in is not available, you also have the opportunity to work with an adviser to create your own. Students may choose to supplement their concentration with another area of focus. We call these secondary fields; you might know them from other schools as minors. Quick Links Available Concentrations College Curriculum Academic Advising Explore New Subjects and Ideas Program in General Education Harvard's Program in General Education ensures that every student engages with a broad range of topics. With an emphasis on courses with real-world applications, the program aims to make our students more informed citizens and leaders. Dual-Degree Music Programs Did you know that Harvard offers dual-degree music programs with two of Boston's most renowned music schools, New England Conservatory or Berklee College of Music? Students enrolled receive a Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) from Harvard College and a master’s degree. Learn about Dual-Degree Music Programs Tour Study Abroad The Harvard community extends around the globe, and so do our academic opportunities. You can study abroad and bring your need-based financial aid with you. Spend a summer, semester, or full year immersed in another country and culture. Learn more about Study Abroad Faculty Engagement From your first day on campus, you'll have access to some of the world’s greatest scholars. Nobel laureates lead introductory courses. Pulitzer Prize-winning authors teach General Education classes. National Book Award winners lead First-Year Seminars. Don't be intimidated. These impressive people are here to share their knowledge—and they love meeting and interacting with their students. You can meet up with professors before and after class or during their open office hours. Maybe you just made a major scientific breakthrough or just have a simple question. Either way, you’ll enjoy a one-on-one conversation with a leading scholar who may turn into a lifelong friend and mentor. Learn more about our faculty Collaborative Research Work closely with faculty members by participating in research, or take the reins and lead your own project. No matter your interests, you're sure to find opportunities that spark your curiosity. Along the way, you'll contribute to our understanding of the world and build relationships with leading scholars. Learn More About Research Learn More About Harvard Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch. Sign Up Related Topics Academics Small classes, fascinating course topics, personalized degree programs, and unsurpassed research opportunities across a diverse field of subjects.  Liberal Arts & Sciences Our liberal arts and sciences philosophy encourages students to step outside their comfort zone. Learn how to achieve your academic goals at Harvard.  Faculty Harvard students have access to some of the world’s greatest scholars. Learn more about our faculty and their impactful role in the College community.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Skip to site header Skip to main content