Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College Global Experiential Learning and Teaching (GELT) Breadcrumb Home Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities Global Experiential Learning and Teaching (GELT) Embed an international study experience within your advanced undergraduate coursework through the GELT grant program. The Global Experiential Learning and Teaching (GELT) grant program provides funds for undergraduate seminars that embed an international travel component. The travel may take place prior to, during, or at the end of the course, or may be offered as a destination course during Brown’s Winter Session. GELT applications for 2022-23 are due on June 3, 2022. 2022-23 Application Process Information for Faculty The objectives of the GELT program are to: Promote experiential learning within the Open Curriculum Create direct ties between on-campus classroom learning and global experiential education, advancing students' holistic Brown academic experience Offer courses with an intensive academic focus on a specific topic Encourage students to explore new academic areas and geographic locations that align with their interests and academic goals Increase accessibility to international opportunities, particularly for students who may not normally pursue education abroad The GELT program offers two forms of support: Phase I: Course Development Provides up to $4,000 to support the development of a new course with an embedded, short-term education abroad component. Recipients must apply for Phase II funding during the next cycle. Phase II: Course Implementation Provides up to $35,000 to support travel, accommodations, and related costs for one faculty member and up to 12 Brown students. Applicants may apply directly to Phase II if Phase I funding and development is not needed. Support for the GELT Program Back to Top A signature initiative of Brown University's strategic plan, Building on Distinction, the Global and Experiential Learning and Teaching Program is supported by gifts from alumni and friends to the Dean of the College Innovation Fund. One such gift is the Lea E. Williams GELT Award, established in 2018. For general information, contact GELT@brown.edu. Faculty applications for the 2022-23 academic year are due in late May/early June 2022. Additional information is available under "For Faculty." Students are encouraged to visiting the "Course Offerings" section to browse the list of upcoming courses with travel components. Contact gelt@brown.edu gelt@brown.edu GELT Courses Back to Top The GELT program was suspended between Spring 2020 and Spring 2022 in alignment with University travel restrictions. Upcoming program offerings for the 2022-23 academic year will be listed below when they are finalized. Past GELT-funded courses are listed below. Past GELT-Funded Courses Past courses have been showcased in News from Brown, the Brown Daily Herald, and the Taipei Times. Year Course Title and Instructor Country 2020 Arctic Climate and Policy (Professor A. Lynch) Norway 2020 HIV/AIDS in Diverse Settings: Focus on Israel (Professor R. Kantor) Israel 2020 The U.S.-Mexico Border and Borderlands: Experiential Learning on the Ground and in the Field (Professor E. Hu-Dehart) Lea E. Williams GELT Award 2019-20 Recipient California & Mexico 2019 Migration in the Americas (Professor D. Lindstrom) Mexico 2019 Physical Volcanology (Professor C. Huber) Lea E. Williams GELT Award 2018-19 Recipient Greece 2019 The African Atlantic Diaspora: Race, Memory, Identity, & Belonging (Professor S. Delalue) Ghana 2019 HIV/AIDS in Diverse Settings: Focus on Israel (Professor R. Kantor) Israel 2018 Berlin: Architecture, Memory, & Politics (Professor D. Neumann) Germany 2018 Living & Material Landscapes of the African Diaspora (Professor I. Osayimwese) Barbados 2018 HIV/AIDS in Diverse Settings: Focus on Israel (Professor R. Kantor) Israel 2018 Decolonizing Museums: Collecting Indigenous Culture in Taiwan & North America (Professor C. Frank) Taiwan 2017 Advanced Egyptian Arabic: Displacement and Diaspora in a Modernizing Egypt (Professor A. Hassan) Egypt 2017 Critical Approaches to Global Humanitarianism in Thailand (Professor E. Shih) Thailand 2017 Settler Colonialism & US Military Empire in the Pacific (Professor N. Shibusawa) Hawai'i 2017 The Israeli/Palestinian Conflict: Contested Narratives (Professor D. Jacobson) Israel/Palestine 2016 Anthropology of Displacement and Refugees in the Middle East (Professor S. Tobin) Jordan 2016 Philosophy & Practice of Japanese Rinzai Zen Buddhism (Professor H. Roth) Japan 2016 Cities, Colonies and Global Networks in the Western Mediterranean (Professor P. Van Dommelen) Spain 2015 Global Tectonics (Professor A. Saal) Argentina 2015 Brazil Under Vargas: Shaping a Nation (Professor J. Green) Brazil 2015 Local & Global Community Engagement to Reduce Health Disparities (Professor A. Nunn) Ghana & Brazil 2015 Berlin: Architecture, Politics and Memory (Professor D. Neumann) Germany 2015 Special Topics in Playwriting: Guhahamuka (Professor E. Ehn) Rwanda & Uganda 2015 International Journalism (Professor S. Kinzer) Nicaragua 2015 The Medieval Monastery (Professor S. Bonde) France 2015 The Israeli/Palestinian Conflict: Contested Narratives (Professor D. Jacobson) Israel/Palestine 2014 Climate & Development Lab (Professor J. T. Roberts) Peru GELT Information for Students Back to Top By participating in a GELT course, students enhance their coursework through hands-on learning, and gain exposure to different viewpoints, people, and experiences. These courses provide an opportunity for an international education experience in addition to, or in lieu of, spending a semester or summer abroad. What Is Included? Essential travel costs (flights, accommodations, most meals, health insurance for international locations, site tickets) are covered by the GELT grant. As a result of this funding, participation in a GELT course costs no more than enrolling in a regular on-campus course. Students are only responsible for their tuition and associated campus fees, as usual. Financial aid is available to eligible students during the academic year and Winter Session. Prof. David Jacobson with Students in Israel (Spring 2015) Application Process GELT courses are capped at 12 participants, so students typically must submit an application to the instructor in order to be considered for enrollment in the course. Please view the Course Offerings section for more information on the application process. Students do not need to apply for GELT grant funding. Faculty who are offering GELT courses have already received the funding for the group of enrolled students. Travel Requirement Because travel is an essential component of every GELT course, students must travel with their class and fulfill all on-site requirements in order to earn credit. Health and Safety All participants traveling to international locations will be enrolled in Brown University's International Accident and Sickness Study/Travel Abroad blanket insurance plan and the International SOS 24/7 emergency medical and travel assistance service. Students will be required to register with TravelSafe, Brown's international travel registry, and participate in a pre-departure orientation session. Faculty will also provide an on-site orientation upon arrival. Please contact GELT@brown.edu with questions. GELT Information for Faculty Back to Top For questions not addressed on the website, please contact GELT@brown.edu. Eligibility Applicants must: Be salaried members of the Brown faculty. All regular members of the Brown faculty are eligible. Non-regular faculty members must be paid by Brown (i.e., not an independent contractor) and must have an appointment term that extends through the expected semester of course travel. Plan to develop and teach the proposed course (Group Independent Study Projects (GISPs) will not be considered for funding). Have experience with teaching or conducting research in the proposed host country. Demonstrate established relationships with colleagues at a university, cultural/historical organization, NGO, for-profit, or government entity in the proposed host country. Adhere to Brown's Travel Advisory Policy. Preference will be given to faculty who have experience leading an education abroad course and to faculty who are able to communicate in the language of the host country. Repeat GELT Applications Unsuccessful applicants are welcome to re-apply during any cycle. Applicants who have already received GELT Phase II funding cannot re-apply in the year immediately following their GELT course implementation, but may do so after one year has passed. Priority may be given to first-time applicants. Application Process *Note: Applicants who are interested in offering a destination course during Winter Session must apply via the Winter Session course proposal process. Phase I - Curriculum Development This option is best for faculty who need time and resources to fully develop the international component of the course. Important: Recipients of a Phase I grant must commit to applying for a Phase II grant in the following year. Phase I recipients from the current year will apply for Phase II funding in the next cycle must offer the course during the subsequent academic year. Phase I Selection Criteria & Application Rubric 2022-23 Application Deadline: June 3, 2022 Apply for a Phase I GELT Grant Phase II - Course Implementation This option is best for faculty who have developed a strong international component and want to offer the course during the following Fall, Winter Session, or Spring term. Applicants may apply directly to Phase II if Phase I funding and development is not needed. Phase II Selection Criteria & Application Rubric 2022-23 Application Deadline: June 3, 2022 Apply for a Winter 2023 GELT Grant Apply for Spring 2023 GELT Grant Application Components Syllabus Travel Component Rationale (1-2 pages) Statement of Experience in Country (1 page) Sample Itinerary Budget Letter(s) of Support (Department Chair) Phase II Only: Student Application Process + Host Country Letter Sample Application Documents GELT Sample Syllabus GELT Phase I Successful Application Example GELT Phase II Successful Application Example GELT Budget Examples More guidance will be provided within the online applications regarding what the proposal and budget should include. These samples are intended merely as a reference. Payment of Grant Funds Grant funds will be managed by a College financial analyst, who will work closely with awardees to dispense and reconcile funds. Phase I funds will be made available to faculty as they finalize details for their course development travel. Phase II funds will be made available during the semester immediately preceding the course implementation. Faculty are required to adhere to the post-selection requirements listed below as a condition of their course funding. Faculty and participating students with on-site expenses can request a travel advance before departure. Overview of Faculty Responsibilities Work with the Assistant Director of Experiential Learning Programs to develop an application process for undergraduate students. Design itinerary. Make travel arrangements. Assist students with their visa applications, when required. Ensure the travel component fits the course learning objectives. Schedule a pre-departure health and safety orientation and lead an on-site orientation. Prepare and, if necessary, implement an emergency action plan. Support students with both academic and personal needs for the duration of the program. Phase II Post-Selection Requirements Submit the syllabus to the course proposal system with an instructor override required and a cap of 12 undergraduate students. Upload the near-final syllabus to courses.brown.edu for student access via Courses@Brown. Determine an application process for interested students in collaboration with the Assistant Director of Experiential Learning Programs. Make travel arrangements through FCm (preferred agency). Note: The College does not assist with travel arrangements or with visa applications. Complete a Health and Safety Orientation with the Assistant Director of Curricular Programs. Along with the Assistant Director of Experiential Learning Programs, provide a Pre-Departure Orientation for students. Confirm that travelers will be covered by Brown's international health insurance plan. Ensure students are enrolled in TravelSafe, Brown's global travel registry. Students will sign travel waivers as part of their enrollment in TravelSafe. Phase II Post-Trip Requirements Complete a final report of the GELT course. Submit a budget summary. Lea E. Williams GELT Award Back to Top Each year, undergraduates from all financial backgrounds have the opportunity to integrate advanced coursework with international experiences for no additional cost beyond the cost of a standard Brown course. Made possible through the generosity of our donors, Global Experiential Learning and Teaching (GELT) grants allow students to connect academic and real-world experiences by traveling alongside Brown faculty and engaging with local scholars and practitioners around questions, issues, and challenges of local and global significance. One example of this donor generosity is the Lea E. Williams Award, established in 2018, which supports course development and essential travel costs for courses selected by the GELT committee with travel to Asia or another international destination. The award was established in 2018 in honor of Lea E. Williams ADE’60 hon., P’77 AM’77, P’81, GP’14, GP’18, who was appointed Professor Emeritus of History in 1989, after having taught at Brown for 33 years. Note: While faculty with a particular interest in leading short-term travel courses to Asia are encouraged to apply for the GELT award, neither faculty nor students interested in enrolling in such a course need to take additional steps beyond the general GELT application process to be considered for this award. About Dr. Lea E. Williams The Global Experiential Learning and Teaching award was named in honor of Lea E. Williams ADE’60 hon., P’77 AM’77, P’81, GP’14, GP’18, who was appointed Professor Emeritus of History in 1989, after having taught at Brown for 33 years. Originally a member of the Political Science Department, Williams was a specialist in East Asian studies and was named Professor of History in 1976 when the Asian History Program merged with the History Department. Williams has written several books and articles covering a wide span, including overseas Chinese nationalism, the Chinese in Southeast Asia, Portuguese trade in Southeast Asia, and Chinese maritime history. Born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Williams was interested in foreign languages from a young age because he was “ready to make mistakes and learn,” he says. Williams was destined to follow the family profession and become a lawyer, but World War II and travel to China changed all that. Williams joined the U.S. Army right after his high school graduation, during the height of World War II, but was sent home during training after coming down with pneumonia. It was then that a chance encounter with a family friend working for the U.S. Department of State set Williams on a path that he calls “serendipitous.” The State Department recruited Williams because he could type, a skill he decided to learn in high school while the other boys were in shop class. It was a decision that ended up changing his whole life, he says. Williams requested to be sent to Latin America because he spoke Spanish, but, to his astonishment, he was sent to China. The 19-year-old Williams was the youngest U.S. Foreign Service Officer serving at that time. His family wasn’t phased by this because, as Williams says, “Everyone was going to some far-off place in those days.” In Chongqing, he met his future wife, Daisy, who was one of thousands of students who fled to the region during the Second Sino-Japanese War. During that time, it was illegal to do anything deemed “frivolous,” Williams says, which included dancing. Daisy and her friends organized dance parties at their homes, and that’s where she and Williams met. “That’s the best way to learn a language,” Williams says. The couple eventually relocated to the U.S., where Williams served as a U.S. Foreign Service Officer from 1952 to 1955 and earned his A.B. in Chinese studies from Cornell University and his A.M. in Chinese studies from Harvard University. At Harvard, he participated in Harvard's ground breaking anthropological expedition to Indonesia, headed by Clifford Geertz, and studied under John K. Fairbank, considered the doyen of post-war China studies and for whom the Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies at Harvard University is named. Williams completed his Ph.D. in history from Harvard in 1956 and joined the Political Science Department at Brown, despite his initial negative impression of Providence. Williams recalls driving down Route 1 onto Benefit Street and thinking to himself, “What a miserable looking place!” Williams and Daisy settled in a house on Transit Street, where they raised their two children, Adrienne and William. The family frequently traveled to various parts of Southeast Asia, where Williams was a visiting scholar and fellow. Their daughter’s first language was Mandarin Chinese, which Williams and his wife spoke exclusively in their home until Adrienne started attending school and refused to speak it. Their son’s first language was Malay; the family was living in Kuala Lumpur when he began to speak, Williams says. Williams still lives in the house on Transit Street, where he recently remarked on how the awareness of and education about Southeast Asian culture has shifted from when he was a young man. “I noticed that when I first got into this business 60 years ago and someone would ask, ‘What do you teach?’ I had to explain it to them. That’s no longer the case. That’s a big change,” Williams says. Williams says he is honored to have a GELT award named for him; he says it is fitting because he has always encouraged Brown students to travel abroad. I think getting off campus is a very useful experience. Travel has changed my life in innumerable ways and I am delighted that future generations of Brown students will be encouraged and helped to do the same. Dr. Lea E. Williams Professor Emeritus of History Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Global Experiential Learning and Teaching (GELT) Open details for Global Experiential Learning and Teaching (GELT) Bookmark this Page