Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Enrichment / Courses Courses NTC's Academic Enrichment team and its Office of Undergraduate Research is introducing new colloquium courses for students to explore their academic life and various disciplines at the university. Engaging in these classes will help students develop an understanding of the research process as it is carried out within and across scholarly disciplines. To schedule a course, connect with your NTC Academic Advisor. Fall 2021 COLQ 2010 Courses Section 01 – Quest for Answers: Research Workshop – Dr. James Huck In this workshop-based seminar, students work closely with faculty and with each other to develop their own scholarly and research directions. Through readings, reflection, and hands-on activities, students explore the intersections between personal identity and scholarly work while also building their research skills and their oral and written communication skills. By interviewing faculty and recent Honors alumni, students learn how the research experience adds depth and value to life both within and beyond the academic setting. Students are also introduced to funding opportunities at Tulane and outside of Tulane in the form of nationally competitive scholarships. Section 02 – Research Design, Research Ethics, and Responsible Innovation – Dr. John L Howard This hybrid seminar/workshop seeks to help students develop an understanding of the intellectual and moral landscapes of academic research. It also helps students develop an understanding of different research processes as they are carried out within and across scholarly disciplines, as well as broader ethical issues concerning the effects of academic scholarship and research on various academic, social, and political communities. Coursework involves readings on philosophical and moral issues in academic research as well as exercises and activities designed to help students identify areas of interest for future research and responsible innovation in their fields. Students are encouraged to work in engaged and collaborative ways, to discover mutually supporting connections across disciplinary boundaries, and to create shared projects and intellectual lifeways that are equitable, inclusive, and responsible. Section 03 – Jordan Karubian & Renata Ribeiro In the past year alone, they have watched fires burn out of control, weathered an unprecedented number of named storms in the Atlantic, sweated through the warmest year on record, and seen global society upended by a virus that jumped from wild animals to humans. To operate effectively in this rapidly changing world – and to make a positive impact – requires an interdisciplinary approach. Throughout this course, students will have an opportunity to examine an interest related to the nexus of human society and the environment, through the lens of an award-winning Tulane research and conservation program based in Ecuador. Students will develop a foundation of knowledge and build confidence in this arena, while exploring the relationship between a person and environmental research and change-making across a range of disciplines. They will explore this relationship of identity and work in their own lives, in the lives of alumni who have pursued research and creative work as undergraduates, and in the lives of faculty. Students will also examine ways to effectively communicate and present their research and potential research questions to various audiences (within and outside of the academic community); and demonstrate the importance of research for policy and practice. While the workshop can provide space to explore preliminary ideas for the honors thesis, it is also a space for open exploration related to the intersection of human society and the environment. Newcomb-Tulane College’s Office of Undergraduate Research engages undergraduate students in meaningful and rigorous research experiences, develops undergraduate research skills, and connects undergraduates to faculty-driven or independent research opportunities. View the Undergraduate Research Website Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University