Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Enrichment / Grants for Academic Enrichment Grants for Academic Enrichment Newcomb-Tulane College awards $100,000 annually to support undergraduate research, conference travel, internships, and special projects. Grants are reviewed monthly while classes are in session. Submit by the 15th to receive a decision by the first week of the new month. Applications for summer internship funding are only considered during March and April. If you are interested in applying, please consider coming to one of our grant info sessions, email ntcgrants@tulane.edu for an appointment with a grant advisor, or take a look at the FAQ. Visit the applications section to read about grant requirements and to submit an application. If there is a specific grant program you are interested in, you are welcome to make a note of that. Past recipients and their stories are a great way to get an idea of what students have used grants for. For help with the grant application process, please contact the Office of Academic Programs at ntcgrants@tulane.edu, 504-862-8741, or by visiting 106 A Hebert Hall. Individual/Group Leader Application Group/Group Member Application Faculty Letter of Recommendation COVID-19 Info With the understanding that the crisis may continue and make travel impossible, we are still accepting applications that involve international travel. If your project ends up being delayed or canceled, we will work with you to see if we can postpone the trip, or put the funds toward a related project. If this is not possible, the funds will not be disbursed. Resources for Applying Budget Worksheet for application Grant Information Workshops to find out more information Writing Assistance with grant proposals at the Academic Learning and Tutoring Center Recommendation Letter Submission Form FAQ What Funds Can and Cannot Be Used For NTC grants support academic projects and research, academic conference travel (for presenters), virtual conference attendance, internship travel and related costs, some service projects, and other projects related to one's studies or academic-related interests. Read the NTC Grant Stories to see examples of previously funded requests. What is Not Covered Food costs (unless you're a digital media production or film student). Stipends or salaries. Costs for any program or course where you are receiving credit. Costs to take classes or courses, whether for credit or not for credit. Study Abroad tuition costs. Start-up ventures. For-profit or non-profit companies that either require a high donation fee or charge a high fee to place you with an internship or "voluntourism"-oriented excursion. Personal items such as medical insurance, cell phones, etc. Durable items or supplies (cameras, etc.) that are over $100 (unless you intend for them to remain the property of your department.) NTC will also not fund travel to countries on the U.S. State Department’s Travel Advisory List that are designated as “Level 3: Reconsider Travel” or “Level 4: Do Not Travel.” Travel costs for attending a conference without presenting (virtual conferences okay). Projects or travel for student organizations. Global Brigades trips, effective 2019-2020 school year. If You Are Awarded Funding Please delay purchases—especially travel related—for as long as you can. If your project ends up becoming impossible to finish (or you will graduate beforehand), you will need to pay back the grant. This is the last thing we want to be asking students to do. If your project ends up not being possible to complete, we encourage you still to list the award on your resume or CV. A reminder that students must use grant funds while they are undergraduates of Newcomb-Tulane College. In other words, funds need to be used prior to graduation. Please email us at ntcgrants@tulane.edu if you have further questions. Grant Info Sessions Hear about successful projects from recent grant recipients, and learn more about applying for grant funding from Newcomb-Tulane College. Spring 2021 Schedule February 8th @ 12:30 via zoom - you can view the recording here. Stories and Spotlights Follow NTC on Instagram (@newcombtulanecollege) for stories and spotlights on NTC Grant recipients and other undergraduate students! Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Grant Programs How to Apply NTC Grants FAQ Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University