Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College Engaged Learning Breadcrumb Home Learn Beyond the Classroom Engaged Learning As a Brown student, you have the opportunity to participate in community-engaged courses and fellowships, academic programs that include experiential learning, U.S military service and research projects executed in collaboration with local partners. BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs The College offers several experiential learning programs that combine internships and coursework over the summer and fall terms. Students have the opportunity to gain direct experience in a dynamic field, innovate alongside professional mentors, and collaborate with fellow Brown students in small cohorts. Community-Based Learning and Research Community-Based Learning and Research (CBLR) courses require students to collaborate with one or more community partners to investigate an important social challenge or problem. Swearer Center Programs Swearer Center programs and fellowships provide students with individual and cohort-based experiential learning opportunities that reflect varied approaches to changemaking, including direct service, advocacy, organizing, and activism, social innovation, and engaged research. Through programs and fellowships, students link their passion for social justice and community engagement with their academic and career goals. Undergraduate Certificate Programs Undergraduate certificates are pathways that enable degree-seeking students to pursue an integrated combination of coursework, co-curricular, and experiential learning. Together, these experiences contribute to a student’s academic and personal development, deepening their understanding of an area of interest while acquiring skills that prepare them for life after Brown. Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) ROTC is a college leadership program sponsored by the U.S. Military. Offered by all branches of the military except the Coast Guard, ROTC awards qualified students full-tuition scholarships as well as monthly stipends. ROTC students become commissioned officers upon graduation and fulfill an eight-year service obligation in the U.S. Armed Forces. ROTC students receive curricular and field training in military science. Typical requirements include three hours of classroom instruction and three hours of physical fitness training per week, a one-hour weekly leadership lab, and one weekend field-training exercise per semester. ROTC courses do not transfer back to Brown and do not count toward degree requirements. ROTC courses taken after July 2015 are noted on the Brown transcript as non-credit courses. ROTC programs for the Army, the Navy, the Marine Corps, and the Air Force are available to Brown students through partnerships with nearby universities. For more information, please see Commissioning Programs at the Office of Student Veterans and Commissioning Programs. More information about the Army ROTC program at Providence College can be found on the Patriot Battalion website. Interested students may also contact ROTC at (401) 865-2025 or patriot5@providence.edu. Royce Fellowship Established in 1996 through the generosity of Charles Royce, '61, the Royce Fellowship supports Brown undergraduates as they carry out independent community-engaged research projects of their own design in locations across the United States and around the world. Fellows conduct their research under the supervision of a faculty member and as part of an interdisciplinary cohort of students from across the university. learn more Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Engaged Learning Open details for Engaged Learning Bookmark this Page