Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Events / Speakers Speakers Reading Project Keynote Lecture The Kylene and Brad Beers Reading Project Keynote Lecture is the signature event for the Reading Project. It connects students with thought-provoking speakers and provides them an opportunity to engage with the theme of the book. John J Witmeyer III Dean's Colloquium This lecture invites distinguished alumni back to campus to discuss their careers and professions. Equity Speaker Series Each year, this series brings speakers to campus to have a conversation around equity in higher education. Global Perspectives Series The Center for Global Education’s Global Perspectives programming series offers Tulane faculty and students the opportunity to coordinate virtual curriculum enhancements and/or co-curricular cultural engagement through Tulane’s international partners. Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations John J. Witmeyer III '68 Dean's Colloquium 2018 John J. Witmeyer III '68 Dean's Colloquium John J. Witmeyer III Dean’s Colloquium 2013 John J. Witmeyer III Dean’s Colloquium 2014 John J. Witmeyer III Dean’s Colloquium 2016 John J. Witmeyer III Dean’s Colloquium 2017 The Crossroads Colloquium Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University