Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Academics On this page Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Overview Give in to Your Curiosity As a liberal arts and sciences college nestled within a world-class research university, Harvard gives you both the freedom to shape your own course of study and the resources to see it through. So, what are you waiting for? Stake a claim and learn from those who challenge it. Ask a complex question and grow from the process of answering it. Master the subjects you love, but never forget to explore the unfamiliar terrain that lies just beyond your comfort zone. Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Harvard College's academic opportunities expose you to the world’s richness and complexity. You'll engage in scholarship that explores the human experience from diverse points of view, and dive deeply into a particular field of study. You'll gain a broad foundation of critical thinking skills that prepare you to confidently tackle any challenge. Quick Links Liberal Arts & Sciences Concentrations Harvard College Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad How do I choose a major at Harvard? Author: Juliana Lamy Class of '20  Office of Undergraduate Education The Office of Undergraduate Education is responsible for curriculum planning and requirements, as well as a number of student-focused programs that include advising, freshman seminars, career services, and more. Office of Undergraduate Education Faculty Faculty Harvard faculty are invested in helping you celebrate your passions. You'll build close and enduring relationships with professors who challenge you to see with new eyes and serve as models of engaged, conscientious leadership. Quick Links Faculty Faculty-Student Engagement Freshman Seminar Program Faculty Engagement by the Numbers Statistics 130+ 130+ Freshman seminars 400+ 400+ First-year advisers 7:1 7:1 Student to faculty ratio 12 12 Median course size Research Research Research is the key that unlocks new knowledge. At Harvard, we put that power into your hands from the moment you arrive. You can take part in hands-on research projects ranging from leading a study to performing lab work with a faculty mentor. Learn more about research opportunities Advising Advising Your advisers help you plan your degree, discover special academic opportunities, and prepare for your career after graduation. They'll guide you as you create a course of study that challenges and excites you, and give you the advice and support you need to branch out and take academic risks. Quick Links Advising First-Year Advising Upperclass Student Advising Postgraduate Planning Academic Resource Center The Academic Resource Center (ARC) at Harvard University supports Harvard’s students in developing reading strategies, time management skills, and metacognitive approaches to learning. Students will have access to consultations, workshops, academic coaching, peer tutoring, and skills-based resources. Learn more about the Academic Resource Center Academic Integrity Academic integrity is the foundation of the academic experience at Harvard College. Students at Harvard learn how to acknowledge when their work is indebted to others’, and about the value of producing original scholarship. Learn more about academic integrity Learn More About Harvard Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch. Sign Up Related Topics Campus From our libraries to our museums, our support services to our common spaces, our campus is teeming with resources to guide your experience.  Research As a college within a research university, Harvard undergraduates have access to unparalleled research opportunities. Learn about research at Harvard.  Leadership & Service Members of our community uphold a commitment to making the world a better place for all. Learn how to make an impact through leadership and service.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Skip to site header Skip to main content