Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College About the College At Brown University, the purpose of undergraduate education is to foster the intellectual and personal growth of the individual student. Sub Navigation In This Section People Contact Committees & Reports About the College At Brown University, the purpose of undergraduate education is to foster the intellectual and personal growth of the individual student. The mission of the College is to support students as drivers of their academic pathways . The College staff and advising community take steps to ensure that students are: Engaged Students are seen as active participants in framing their own education. The College emphasizes building relationships with and among students, staff, faculty and alumni, recognizing that intentional collaboration is the foundation for shared learning and collective impact. Empowered All members of the Brown community are empowered to pursue continuous intellectual, personal and professional growth. To facilitate this, the College works to ensure that administrative structures, rules and regulations provide students with opportunities to develop and achieve their educational goals. Transformed The College partners with students in building lives of sustained learning, meaning and purpose. We do this by cultivating intellectual risk-taking through the Open Curriculum, and by embracing the value of listening — of understanding that the views and experiences of others are part of the learning experience. This reinforces the community's commitment to making the world a better place through learning, research, advocacy and public service. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About the College Open details for About the College Bookmark this Page