Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb About Campus On this page Overview Campus Updates Cambridge & Boston Resources Student Services Overview Living in History From the American Revolution to the latest breakthroughs in science and technology, Harvard's iconic campus has been the site of transformative moments in history both large and small. Campus Updates Campus Updates Harvard College is committed to the academic progression of our students, which we must pursue while protecting the health and safety of our community. Guided by this commitment, we have resumed in-person instruction for the 2021-22 academic year while implementing safety guidelines to ensure the well-being of our students and staff. Quick Links Campus Updates Keep FAS Healthy Explore Harvard Harvard College Calendar  Campus Campus Spotlights Mather Tranquility Room Author: Ada Cruz Class of '24  Harvard College Women's Center Author: Ada Cruz Class of '24  The Malkin Athletic Center Author:  View all campus spotlights Cambridge & Boston The Heart of the City Harvard's campus traverses the Charles River from the heart of Cambridge to nearby Allston. A haven within the bustling city, Harvard Yard is the historic hub where nearly all first-years live and attend classes. Harvard Square is filled with one-of-a-kind shops, international restaurants, bookstores, cafés, and theaters. A comprehensive network of public transportation connects you to the neighborhoods of Boston: the winding streets of the North End, the iconic brownstones of Back Bay and the South End, and the museums and cultural attractions of Fenway. Buses and trains bring you to cozy seaside villages from Cape Cod to Maine, ski slopes, forests, and scores of local cultural venues and historic sites. Learn more about Cambridge & Boston Students walking on campus This preview video does not contain audio. Video description: Students walking on campus Campus Expanding Our Campus The state-of-the-art Science and Engineering Complex expands Harvard's campus with an additional 500,000 square feet of classrooms, active learning labs, maker space, and common areas. Learn more about the Science and Engineering Complex Resources From libraries and research laboratories to our museums, everything needed during your intellectual journey is at your fingertips. Campus Resources Bookstore Located in the heart of Harvard Square, the Coop is a cooperatively owned bookstore where you'll find textbooks, the latest bestsellers, Harvard apparel, special events with local authors, and more. Become a member for just $1.00 a year and save 10% off all purchases. Common Spaces Grab a snack, relax with friends, or host a group event. From restaurants and study spaces in the newly renovated Smith Campus Center to beautiful outdoor areas that host concerts, food trucks, and seasonal events, Harvard's common spaces offer vibrant environments for community engagement. Libraries Harvard's network of libraries is an unparalleled resource for learning and research, containing millions of items ranging from the Gutenberg Bible and the paintings of John James Audubon to the personal papers of scholars, scientists, activists, and authors. Library staff can help you uncover the treasures of the largest university library collection in the world. Research Laboratories More than two dozen Harvard buildings are used exclusively for scientific research. Our laboratory facilities are designed with close collaboration in mind. Students and faculty from across disciplines take advantage of cutting-edge technology to push the boundaries of our understanding of the physical world. Sustainability Universities have a special role and responsibility to confront the challenge of climate change. Student groups offer opportunities to work on sustainability initiatives at the local, regional, and national level, while the University's Sustainability Plan establishes concrete goals for creating a greener Harvard. Campus Museums From the Harvard Art Museums—contained in Renzo Piano's stunning building that is itself a work of art—to the natural beauty of the Arnold Arboretum, art, history, science, and culture are always on display at Harvard’s many museums. View a list of all Harvard museums Student Services The College offers a wide variety of services meant to support you in all aspects of your time as an undergraduate student. List of Student Services Accessible Education Office Harvard's Accessible Education Office helps eligible students receive accommodations for emotional, mental, and physical illnesses, learning disabilities, and physical impairments. Billing Harvard University Student Financial Services is comprised of the Student Accounts Office, the Student Loan Office, and the University Financial Aid Liaison Office. Make a payment, check your billing calendar, and get your questions answered. Health Services From regular check-ups and counseling to physical therapy and yoga instruction, the wide range of resources offered by Harvard University Health Services help you stay mentally and physically healthy. Registrar's Office The FAS Registrar's Office provides a variety of services to faculty, students, and staff including tracking students’ registration status, transcripts, managing the course enrollment process, and billing tuition and fees. Safety Committed to Your Security Student safety is a top priority. We provide a comprehensive public safety program to make sure you feel comfortable and secure at Harvard. Our safety program includes: Full campus police force, the Harvard University Police Department (HUPD) Walking escort service Campus-wide shuttle service Late-night door-to-door service Emergency phones Lighted pathways Computer-card key system operating in all freshman and most other dormitories The HUPD is always available to address your safety concerns. Harvard Safety Committee The Harvard Safety Committee was formed to provide an opportunity for students and staff to discuss safety concerns. Email the committee directly, or contact your student representatives or residential staff with safety concerns at any time. Annual Security Report The University is required by federal law (The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, 20 U.S.C. 1092(f), known as the “Clery Act”) to publish an annual security report. A copy of the report as well as the disclosure procedures can be found on the Harvard University Police website. Additional Resources Safety resources from the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response MessageMe—Harvard’s emergency notification system Shuttle and Van Services Technology From computer labs to wifi-enabled buildings to student email accounts, Harvard University Information Technology (HUIT) keeps the University online. Tour Take a Virtual Tour Student guides lead you through the places they live and learn, including dorm rooms, classrooms, Widener Library, the first-year dining hall and more. Explore the virtual tour Learn More About Harvard Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch. Sign Up Related Topics Explore Harvard Get a glimpse into life at Harvard by taking our virtual tour, reading up on Cambridge & Boston, and connecting with current students.  Residential Life Residential Life at Harvard provides the opportunity to develop your own community through shared experiences.  Diversity & Inclusion Our community is strengthened by the varied perspectives, interests, and identities of its members. Learn about how we support and promote diversity.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle About Submenu About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Skip to site header Skip to main content