Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard My Favorite Study Spaces on Campus Category Student Voices Author Kathleen Bellon Pizarro Class of '24 Authored on October 13, 2021 Share Share on Twitter Twitter Share on Facebook Facebook Article With the start of an almost normal fall semester, I've been excitedly exploring as much of Harvard's campus as possible. As a freshman last year, I wasn't able to go into classrooms, lecture halls, or libraries due to the pandemic. Now, I’ve had a couple of months to check out where I can go to work on p-sets, complete readings, collaborate with friends, and study for exams. So, if you’ve been searching for an insider look into the best spaces on campus to study, you've found the right place! Smith Campus Center – Collaborative Commons & 10th floor Now, I’m a person who usually likes to study with some background noise. In these spaces (the Harvard affiliates-only spaces at Smith), you can usually hear soft low-fi music playing on speakers while you work, which is the perfect ambiance for some relaxed studying or reading. Especially on the 10th floor, where you're able to get some really beautiful sights overlooking Harvard's campus. The Smith Campus Center, in my opinion, is best used when you’re not too pressured for work, and you can afford to take a break here and there. Smith Campus Center Lamont Library – 2nd Floor Booths On the flip side, Lamont is the spot to hit when you have a midterm, two p-sets, and a paper due: it’s where you go to get stuff done. While some parts of Lamont can be used for ~relaxed~ studying, like the Basement and Café, the second floor (specifically in the booths against the wall) is where you sit down and get everything on your to-do list marked off. With minimal distractions, these spaces will make sure that you are 100% focused. I've often studied for midterms in the booths here and have found it to be super productive. The wonderful Lamont. Mather D-hall This may be biased, as I’m a Mather resident myself, but I will say the Mather dining hall is the best space to collaborate with friends and classmates on those p-sets you start the day before they’re due! Paired with Brain Break (late-night snacks that our dining service staff leave out for students to munch on while they work), you’re practically set for a long night of productivity and making great memories with friends. My friends and I studying at the Mather D-hall! Science & Engineering Complex (SEC) - 2nd Floor Balcony Now, this is a new one. I was at SEC for the first time this past week, yet it earned a spot on this list that quickly. The SEC is absolutely beautiful, and if you haven’t had the chance to visit yet, I highly recommend doing so. Though the distance may scare people (it certainly did me!), the Allston Loop and Quad-SEC shuttles are available to make the trek much easier. Particularly, the SEC has these amazing study spaces on their 2nd-floor balcony, with gorgeous views on a fall sunny day. The beautiful SEC. The views are unmatched from the 2nd floor balcony! Dave Mansaray Sever Hall - Top Floor If you take the elevator to the top floor in Sever Hall and walk all the way to the left, you’ll come across a small library that is perfect for relaxed reading. It’s relatively secluded, so if you’re looking for somewhere to study alone (aside from your dorm), you can find it here. The couches in the Sever library are also the comfiest I’ve found so far out of all these places. Don't be surprised if you catch me falling asleep here! The library on the 4th floor of Sever Hall. Tags Academics Student Life Share Share on Twitter Twitter Share on Facebook Facebook Kathleen Bellon Pizarro Class of '24 Hello! My name is Kathleen Bellon Pizarro, and I’m a sophomore concentrating in Molecular and Cellular Biology on the pre-med track. I’m currently living in Mather House (the best house!), but I’ve spent time growing up in both Montana and Texas over the years. Student Profile Book Icon Next Story: Advising on a Campus I'm Getting to Know Book Icon Student Voices Reflections on a Transformative Experience Author: Olga Kiyan Class of '22  My First-Year Residential Life Experience and Dorm Tour Author:  Ready for College? A Guide to Packing for Harvard Author: Raymond Zheng Class of '25  See more student stories Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you.