Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Life at Harvard Student Activities Leadership & Service On this page Overview Public Service ROTC at Harvard Funding Resources Overview A Spirit of Service Public service is fundamental to the Harvard experience, and every Harvard student can find ways to incorporate service into their lives. Many campus organizations provide opportunities to volunteer and guidance on getting involved. Public Service Making a Difference Every student has the opportunity to engage in service to society and to identify how public service fits into his or her life choices. Students can volunteer through a number of public service organizations at Harvard College. Public Service Phillips Brooks House (PBH) Phillips Brooks House Center for Public Service and Engaged Scholarship is the hub and department that provides support for all public service efforts at Harvard College. It is home to the Center for Public Interest Career (CPIC), Mindich Program in Engaged Scholarship, Phillips Brooks House Association (PBHA), and Public Service Network (PSN), and collaborates closely with the Institute of Politics (IOP) and Office of Career Services (OCS) to provide students with a rich variety of volunteer, internship, coursework, and postgraduate opportunities in public service. The Phillips Brooks House also provides coordination, funding, and planning for public service, supports public service efforts in the freshman yard and houses, and leads collaborative efforts such as the first-year Day of Service, Public Service Recruiting Day, and the Public Interested Conference. Center for Public Interest Careers (CPIC) Center for Public Interest Careers (CPIC) engages and supports Harvard undergraduates and recent graduates in expanding awareness of and exploring public interest careers. Working closely with university, alumni/ae, and community partners, CPIC develops public interest fellowships, internships, networks, and opportunities for personal and professional development. Institute of Politics (IOP) Institute of Politics’ (IOP) mission is to unite and engage students, particularly undergraduates, with academics, politicians, activists, and policymakers on a non-partisan basis and to stimulate and nurture their interest in public service and leadership. The Institute strives to promote greater understanding and cooperation between the academic world and the world of politics and public affairs. Harvard Public Service Network (PSN) Harvard Public Service Network (PSN) advises and supports independent student-led public service groups officially recognized by the Dean of Students Office. PSN staff members provide support and resources to over 50 student organizations, many of whom partner with local community nonprofit organizations or nationally recognized service programs. Community Initiatives There are many ways Harvard’s faculty, students, and staff contribute to the local community in carrying out the University’s mission of teaching, research, and learning. The diversity of Harvard’s programs, services, and partnerships is the result of years of collaboration between the University and its neighbors. Learn more about how to get involved. “To Serve Better” is a yearlong, digital project aiming to connect the stories of communities throughout the country with Harvard affiliates devoted to public purpose. The website will launch a series of stories, videos, and photos highlighting individuals making positive public impacts, with the goal of empowering others to pursue their dreams. Visit “To Serve Better” to view the stories and learn more about the project. Groups The Harvard Ed Portal The Harvard Ed Portal offers innovative learning opportunities for all ages through collaborations among Harvard University, Allston-Brighton, and the greater community. Learn more about the Harvard Ed Portal ROTC at Harvard Harvard and Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) share a long relationship. Army ROTC was established on campus in 1916 and the University was one of the six original partner institutions of Naval ROTC in 1926. To join ROTC at Harvard, cross-register with one of the three service programs: Air Force ROTC, Army ROTC, or Navy ROTC. Office of Career Services The Office of Career Services (OCS) connects students with careers in philanthropy and corporate responsibility. OCS also helps provide students with funding for post-graduate fellowships and summer internships Learn more about the Office of Career Services Funding Resources The decision to pursue public interest work is closely aligned with Harvard’s mission; pursuing available funding can help to make this choice more accessible. Many resources are available to Harvard College students at offices across campus; these resources can enable them to take part in rewarding public service activities during or after their studies. Learn what funding resources are available Related Topics College Offices Harvard College offices provide support and help students to navigate everything from academics to student billing.  Life at Harvard From the moment first-year students walk into Harvard Yard until they graduate, they are surrounded by people dedicated to making Harvard “home.”  Cambridge & Boston Harvard students have access to events, museums, music, and more. Explore the opportunities the dynamic cities of Cambridge and Boston have to offer.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Skip to site header Skip to main content