Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College Launch A Career Brown offers a wealth of resources to help you explore and work toward your aspirations for life after college, from preparing for graduate school to applying for jobs. Launch A Career Brown offers a wealth of resources to help you explore and work toward your aspirations for life after college, from preparing for graduate school to applying for jobs. You have a wide range of resources at your fingertips as you shape and pursue your professional goals. Receive customized feedback on your job searches and materials, tap into a vast alumni network and get guidance from career advisors dedicated to supporting students on a range of specific career and educational paths — all designed to help you launch a career that has a positive impact in your community, society and the world. CareerLAB The Center for Careers and Life After Brown, or CareerLAB is made up of three teams: Career Counselors, BrownConnect and Recruiting. Career Education provides workshops, online resources, and seasoned counselors to help develop your individual career plan. From figuring out what kind of jobs, internships, and careers interest you to negotiating a job or internship offer, they can help you acquire the skills you need to succeed at Brown and beyond graduation. BrownConnect invites alumni, parents and friends from Brown’s global community to post opportunities for internships, career advice and networking. Students can search for internship and research opportunities in a wide range of fields and locations, as well as financial support for students who want the freedom to pursue low-paid or unpaid internships. Alumni can find other alumni in their fields to foster professional relationships and strengthen their ties to the Brown community. The Recruiting team engages students in the recruiting process. They also connect students with industries and employers by hosting coffee chats, info sessions, consortiums and career fairs. Career Advising Career advising programs provide one-on-one mentorship to students as they shape their professional paths beyond Brown. Brown faculty, academic deans, and administrative staff offer career guidance for students considering a wide range of careers. Brown also offers tailored advising support for students seeking to enter the health, business and legal professions. Brown Faculty, Academic Deans and Staff Every Brown student has a particular set of interests and intellectual passions that inform their academic choices. At the same time, you are encouraged to experiment with new approaches, to cross boundaries, and to explore new areas of study. Brown faculty, academic deans, and administrative staff are always happy to discuss students’ educational plans and professional goals. Health Careers Advising Resources include individual advising, group advising and information sessions, information about health professions graduate schools and training programs, and additional resources to support pre-medical and pre-health professions students at Brown. Business Careers Advising Business Careers Advising is a collaboration between The College and CareerLAB, based on comprehensive online resources, information sessions and workshops, on-campus recruitment, and individual advising. We encourage Brown students and recent alumni interested in business carers and education to explore these resources and connect. Law Careers Advising Brown offers resources and support to students and alumni interested in the study and practice of law. One-on-one advising is available with our team of two academic deans and a law professional. Contact for Pre-Professional Advising George Vassilev Director of Pre-Professional Advising, Associate Dean of the College george_vassilev@brown.edu (401) 863-2781 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Launch A Career Open details for Launch A Career Bookmark this Page