Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Academics / Academic Integrity Academic Integrity As part of the Tulane University community, all undergraduate students and faculty within Newcomb-Tulane College are expected to abide by the basic principles of academic integrity. Academic integrity is a commitment, even in the face of adversity, to five fundamental values: honesty, trust, fairness, respect and responsibility. From these values flow principles of behavior that enable our community to translate ideals into action (McCabe, 2001). All students and faculty should be familiar with and should abide by the Code of Academic Conduct. Report Academic Misconduct Code of Academic Conduct Academic Integrity Pledge Take the Academic Integrity Survey! Office of Academic Integrity This office was established within Newcomb-Tulane College to support the mission of developing ethically minded students, who are prepared to impact the world beyond Tulane. We oversee the Code of Academic Conduct, the Honor Board processes, provide education for students and faculty to eliminate cheating behaviors, and support a culture of integrity in all academic pursuits. Contact Rachel Champagne Honor Board Reports of alleged violations of the Code of Academic Conduct are reviewed by the Newcomb-Tulane College Honor Board. The board is composed of a select group of students and faculty who consider evidence, determine responsibility and recommend sanctions for violations as appropriate. The Dean of Newcomb-Tulane College is the authority of the Code and has designated the Senior Associate Dean of Academic Affairs with general oversight of the Honor Board process. The Honor Board is chaired by a faculty member, in a 3-year rotation, who is the decision maker for all cases. Contact the Faculty Chair of the Honor Board Join the Honor Board Reporting Academic Misconduct Anyone can report academic misconduct or alleged violations of the Code of Academic Conduct. We prefer that the faculty member of record (issuing the grade) for the course in question submit the report whenever possible, however, if this step is skipped we will communicate with the professor once the report is received. The online reporting form does ask for all available evidence of the misconduct and the course syllabus to the uploaded. This is necessary for the Office of Academic Integrity to move forward with the case. If you would like a consultation, please contact the office or the faculty chair of the honor board above. Submit a report Accused of Academic Misconduct Students who are reported for allegedly violating the Code of Academic Conduct will be contacted once all of the information is received regarding evidence and course documents. Sometimes a professor notifies the student prior to submitting a report. Please be patient and check your Tulane email address for communication from our office. Once a report is ready to move forward, students are contacted with a letter identifying what happened, the evidence available and options for resolution. Flow Chart revised 2021 Request meeting to review the process Annual Reports In this section, you can review the reports of case types, frequency and sanctioning strategies of the Honor Board as reported by the NTC Committee of Academic Integrity. Annual Report 2020-2021 Honor Board Report (Fall 2020) Honor Board Report (Fall 2019) Comprehensive Statistics for the Honor Board (2008-2020) Dean’s Certification and Conduct Check If you are applying to graduate school or a study abroad program, you may be informed that you need to have a Dean's Certification form completed. The Office of Student Conduct works in conjunction with the Academic Dean's Offices to complete all certification forms. Dean's Certification and Conduct Check Academic Integrity Resources for Students Students are encouraged to visit the NTC Student Success writing resources for citation and avoiding plagiarism, as well as the Academic Writing Center for all writing needs. Additionally, students should: Review the syllabus and assignment instructions to ensure the rules on collaboration, use of textbook, notes and web resources are clear. If you are not clear, ask the professor for clarification. Properly acknowledge someone else’s words, thoughts or ideas is critical in academic work and understand that plagiarism is serious. Visit Purdue Owl for citation help or use Microsoft References. Follow instructions during an exam to limit access to technology and not to communicate with other students. Review the Code of Academic Conduct to be certain you understand what is and is not permitted more broadly in the completion of academic work. Not work with other students, use online resources or ask someone to complete your work for you; unless directed to do so by your professor as a part of the assignment. Academic Integrity Resources for Faculty Faculty are provided support on engaged teaching through CELT, where there are also invaluable resources to create a culture of academic integrity in your courses. Some specific resources include: Quick tips for Faculty to Reduce Academic Misconduct Syllabus template with a syllabus statement on academic integrity Turnitin.com series “Tackling e-cheating & assessment security” with Phillip Dawson Understanding Online Test Banks What are Word Spinners? Emergent trends in academic misconduct (August 2020) Source: McCabe (2001) Cheating in Academic Institutions: A Decade of Research Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University