Skip to main content Home Collections View All Objects Advanced Search Welcome to the Peabody Museum Collections Online Collections Online provides access to approximately 700,000 object records and over 600,000 associated digital media records. Users can perform a quick search, an advanced search, or browse preselected groups from the Projects and Collections Home page of objects currently exhibited. Users can also create their own accounts that allow them to 'Favorite', manage and store object records for future access and sharing. Please view the About & Rights & Reproduction pages for more information. In some cases, records and/or images may not be publicly accessible due to cultural sensitivity considerations. If you are a member of an Indigenous community seeking additional information on collections from your community and would like assistance with your research, or an online researcher requiring assistance, please contact the Peabody Museum’s Research Access Department or complete a Collections Access Request Form. The Peabody Museum recently announced an Interim Research Policy for Human Remains and Associated Funerary Objects Under NAGPRA. Under this new policy, the museum will not authorize research (including analytical sampling) on human remains or associated funerary objects without permission from authorized Tribal representatives. We are actively working on updating Collections Online to reflect this new policy and restrict public access to these records accordingly. In the meantime, please contact our Registration Department if you have questions about this policy. Currently on Exhibit Important Note about Historical Language at the Peabody Collections records may contain language, reflecting past collecting practices and methods of analysis, that is no longer acceptable. The Peabody Museum is committed to addressing the problem of offensive and discriminatory language present in its database. Our museum staff are continually updating these records, adding to and improving content. We welcome your feedback and any questions or concerns you may want to share. Please email us with your comments. Accept All the World is Here 691 Objects Día de los Muertos: Day of the Dead 164 Objects Digging Veritas 41 Objects Encounters with the Americas 166 Objects Hall of the North American Indian 395 Objects Listening to Wampanoag Voices 10 Objects Muchos Mexicos: Crossroads of the Americas 33 Objects Resetting the Table: Food & Our Changing Tastes 118 Objects The Legacy of Penobscot Canoes 25 Objects Uncovering Pacific Pasts 23 Objects Wiyohpiyata: Lakota Images of the Contested West 78 Objects Powered by eMuseum Collections Home Projects Favorites / Sign In Rights & Reproductions About & Help Advanced Search The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Website Survey Tab 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Copyright © 2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility