Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Academics Advising On this page Overview First-Year Advising Upper-Level Student Advising Postgraduate Planning Overview Supported for Success At Harvard College, we are deeply invested in your success. Many advising resources are available to help navigate your academic experience. Your advisers can help you you plan your degree program or take advantage of unique academic opportunities such as study abroad. From move-in day through graduation and beyond, you'll receive the support, guidance, and encouragement you need to achieve your academic goals. First-Year Advising Starting in your first year, you'll work closely with a team of dedicated advisers. They will assist you in transitioning to college life and navigating Harvard’s academic curriculum. Advisers in academic departments can also provide guidance as you choose your concentration, which you'll declare in fall of sophomore year. Your first-year advising team will include: first-year advising team First-Year Adviser Your First-Year Adviser may be a faculty member, administrator, or graduate student. This person will assist you with many aspects of your academic experience, such as choosing courses, meeting your degree requirements, considering concentration options, or planning for the summer. You will meet with your academic adviser regularly throughout the year, and intermittently as you need them. Resident Dean of First-Year Students Every first year dormitory is overseen by one of four Resident Deans of First Year (RDFs). Members of the Dean of Students Office staff, RDFs take care of the overall well-being of first-year students at Harvard College. They track their students' academic progress, advise first-year students, and supervise Proctors in their affiliated residences. Proctor A Proctor is an administrator or graduate student who lives in your dormitory and acts as your resource for personal, residential, social, and other issues. Each Proctor oversees an entryway community of approximately 20 to 40 students, and helps plan residence-based social activities. In some cases, your Proctor will also serve as your First-Year Adviser. Peer Advising Fellow A Peer Advising Fellow (PAF) is a Harvard sophomore, junior, or senior who has been specially trained to offer assistance throughout your first year. PAFs work with a specific dorm entryway, but don't live in freshman dorms. As your peers, PAFs have a unique perspective within the advising team. They can give you advice on how to balance your curricular and extracurricular choices, how to face the challenges of transitioning to college life, and how to tap into College resources. Campus Advising Programs Office The goal of academic advising at Harvard is to ensure that all students are encouraged and supported in exploring the wide of range of opportunities inherent in a liberal arts education. Advising Programs Office Upper-Level Student Advising You'll declare your concentration during the fall of your sophomore year. After that point, specialized advisers in your field of study will provide your primary advising. There are also many advisers you can turn to outside of your concentration. From Concentration Selection to Senior Projects As you progress in your studies, you'll benefit from the guidance of advisers in your residence and from specialist advisers in your chosen field. The Allston Burr Resident Dean (ABRD) in your residential House will be an important resource. You'll also continue to build your own network of advisers, seeking multiple perspectives on how to make the most of your time at Harvard. Sophomore Advising In the fall, your primary adviser will be a House Tutor who will serve as your Sophomore Adviser. This adviser will support you through two important transitions: into your House at the beginning of your third term and into your concentration near the end of your third term. Your Sophomore Adviser will help you select courses, choose your concentration, and connect with concentration advisers. Concentration advisers are available to offer sophomores general information about their fields and to discuss concentration requirements. Your Sophomore Adviser will continue to provide you with guidance and support throughout the year, even after you declare your concentration. They will help you plan for academic opportunities such as research or study abroad, and point you to the resources you need. Concentration Advising Concentration advising guides you through your field of study in three phases: Introductory courses Advanced work When applicable, a final project or thesis in your senior year Every concentration takes a different approach to assigning advisors. Once you select a concentration, your department will assign a primary academic adviser according to their approach. Most concentrations take a team approach to advising, encouraging you to seek advice from a variety of sources, such as the Director of Undergraduate Studies or Head Tutor, the Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies or Assistant Head Tutor, or the Undergraduate Coordinator. Some concentrations offer House-based concentration advising, either through Resident Tutors who are graduate students in their fields, or through non-resident graduate students who are affiliated with specific Houses. Residence-Based Advising Every upperclass House has its own staff of advisers called resident tutors. House tutors are hired for their expertise in certain academic or professional areas, and provide general advising to students in their entryways. Every House Tutor also serves as the Sophomore Adviser for a small group of students in the House. Every House also has an Allston Burr Resident Dean (ABRD), who tracks the academic progress of students in residence. ABRDs are the senior academic officers in the Houses. Students are encouraged to turn to them for any kind of advising guidance. Writing Center At the Writing Center, Harvard students can get help with any aspect of their writing. If you need support on a specific assignment or general tips on improving your writing, trained undergraduate tutors are available to help. Explore services at the Writing Center Postgraduate Planning The need for good advising doesn't stop as graduation approaches. As you prepare to graduate, we will help you navigate career planning and graduate or professional school applications. After Harvard After Harvard Harvard College students come from a wide range of backgrounds, and go on to apply their talents to an impressive array of fields. Upon graduation from Harvard College, you will be prepared to pursue many different options. The Office of Career Services (OCS) will help you to navigate your choices and assist you in finding the path that's right for you. Professional Programs and Graduate Schools Over 80% of Harvard students go on to eventually earn a graduate degree. Your Harvard College education is an outstanding preparation for success in graduate and professional school. The Office of Career Services can help you to choose the right program, develop applications, and navigate the acceptance process. Preparing for a Career Harvard College graduates make a mark on the world in every field, from education, entertainment, and medicine to government, media, and technology. The Office of Career Services can help you explore your options, even if you're still only at the beginning of the process. The Office of Career Services offers 300 programs, 20 career fairs, and comprehensive advising services. It's never too early to take advantage of these resources—first year students are encouraged to visit the Office of Career Services early in the year to begin to chart their own path. Related Topics Liberal Arts & Sciences Our liberal arts and sciences philosophy encourages students to step outside their comfort zone. Learn how to achieve your academic goals at Harvard.  Academic Environment Explore what makes Harvard such a unique place to live and learn.  College Offices Harvard College offices provide support and help students to navigate everything from academics to student billing.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Skip to site header Skip to main content