Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Managing Your Aid On this page Overview Federal Verification Sibling Verification Managing Your Outside Awards Taking a Leave of Absence Overview Guidelines for Receiving and Maintaining Aid We maintain a robust financial aid program that makes a Harvard education affordable for every admitted student. Please review our policies and deadlines to ensure you remain in good standing. Federal Verification Helping You Complete Your Application After filing a FAFSA form, students may be selected, by The Department of Education, for review in a process called Verification. Under federal regulations, the Griffin Financial Aid Office is required to verify the accuracy of the information reported on your FAFSA form. In compliance with federal guidelines there are certain data elements that we are required to verify. In order to do so, we may need to collect additional documentation and/or have you transfer data from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Verification FAQs How will I know I'm selected for Verification? You will receive an email from the Griffin Financial Aid Office detailing the Verification Process. If we require any additional documentation from you, we will specify that in the email, and you can always see what is missing or received by logging in to your my.harvard portal. How do I complete Verification? Start by logging into my.harvard to see what requirements you need to complete for Verification. The possible requirements are: Verification Worksheet: Complete and submit a Verification Worksheet. Verification of Parent/Student Income and Taxes: Verification of income and taxes can be done one of two ways: Request an official Tax Return Transcript. Tax filers can request a tax return transcript, free of charge. Once received, upload it to the Financial Aid Office through our secure Verification Uploader. Online request for an official tax return transcript from the IRS: Go to the IRS website. Click on "View Your Account". Click on "Create or View Your Account". Once logged in, click on "View Tax Records" under Tax Records. Click on "Get Transcript" under Get Transcripts Online. Choose ‘Higher Ed/Student Aid" next to "Select a reason you need a transcript" from the dropdown menu. Leave Customer File Number blank and select "Go". Click on 2019 in the Return Transcript box. Print the tax return transcript to PDF and then submit it through our Verification Uploader. Submit a signed copy of parent/student 2019 IRS Form 1040. The 2019 IRS Form 1040 must be signed by the tax filer. Verification of Citizenship: Documents verifying citizenship (US Passport, Permanent Resident Card, I-94 Departure Record if stamped as valid for I-1551 or as a refugee or if granted asylum) should be uploaded through our Verification Uploader. Verification of High School Completion Status: If this is required, students will be contacted directly with instructions. Verification of Identity/Statement of Educational Purpose: If this is required, students will be contacted directly with instructions. How can I submit my Verification documents? Completed documentation can be submitted to the Financial Aid Office through our secure Verification Uploader. Sibling Verification If you report that your parents are paying college costs for your sibling(s) on your financial aid application, part of your financial aid award is based on those costs. Our office will ask you to verify these costs at the beginning of the fall semester by having a college official (like a financial aid officer or registrar's staff member) fill out a Verification of Sibling Enrollment Form. Once the form has been completed, your sibling's college can return it to us through our Sibling Verification Uploader, or by regular mail. Verification of SIbling Enrollment Form Managing Your Outside Awards Helping You Meet Your Need When you receive scholarship funds from sources outside Harvard, they must be reported to OARS so we can incorporate them into your financial aid package. For students who are receiving Harvard scholarship, our policy is to use the full amount of your outside awards to replace your term-time job expectation. If you have outside awards that exceed your term-time job expectation, the remaining amount would replace an equal amount of Harvard scholarship. Since outside awards are additional resources that reduce your financial need, they cannot be used to replace your parent contribution. Report your outside awards Contact information for outside donors Outside award donors often request special handling or additional information before they remit their funds. The following contact information may be helpful as you arrange for your outside awards to be sent to Harvard. Contact Information Checks and requests for bills Student Accounts Office Attn: Outside Awards 801 Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-2739 Proof of enrollment Office of the Registrar Attn: Proof of Enrollment 450 Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1543 Please note: verification of enrollment forms cannot be sent to donors until after Fall Semester Registration. Please note: if your form requires a school seal, the Office of the Registrar is able to issue an electronic seal. Please contact the Registrar for additional details. Requests for grades Office of the Registrar Attn: Transcript Office 450 Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1543 Please note: All grade requests must include a signed permission from the student to release the grades and a $3 fee. Taking a Leave of Absence We are here to help you plan. Taking time away from Harvard—a semester, a year, or more—may impact your financial awards or loan repayment. Before you make a decision, it may be helpful to review our checklist below. The guidelines for securing a Leave of Absence from Harvard are outlined in the Handbook for Students. It is important that you review this section of the handbook and meet with your Resident Dean to discuss the logistics of leaving school. We will help you in any way we can. Leave of Absence Financial Checklist There are often financial issues you need to settle and/or consider as you leave Harvard. This financial checklist contains specific information about financial aid and the repayment of any student loans, as well as information about what you will need to do in order to return to Harvard. This checklist should be used to supplement the information provided by your Resident Dean and the Handbook for Students. Leave of Absence Checklist Current Year Financial Aid Once we receive notice of your leave, we will initially adjust your aid award to the same percentage you are being charged tuition. (For example, if you are being charged 25% of your tuition for the semester, you are eligible to keep 25% of your aid for that semester.) Once room and board charges have been finalized, we will then update your award to reflect your actual billed charges for the semester. Student Account Charges If you leave during the academic year, you will be charged tuition and the student services fee to the end of the period in which you leave; room rent and board charges are pro-rated. Please note that room and board charges continue until you submit your keys and the proper paperwork to your House Office of the Dean of Students Office. See the chart in the Handbook for Students: Students’ Financial Obligations in the Event of a Leave of Absence or Requirement to Withdraw. Partial Terms Normally, you are eligible for eight semesters of financial aid. If you have used a portion of your financial aid eligibility in prior terms, and you are unable to meet this financial shortfall, you will need to petition the Financial Aid Committee in the year of your final term to be considered for a full semester’s worth of eligibility. The petition should include an explanation of your special circumstances and financial needs. Should you have questions concerning your financial aid, please don’t hesitate to email us at faoinfo@fas.harvard.edu. Outside Scholarships Please let your scholarship donor know that you are taking a leave of absence. It is important that you follow any guidelines given to you by the donor so as not to jeopardize your scholarship in future years. Pay special attention to any action you need to take when returning to school, as there may be renewal paperwork to complete before the donor will reinstate your scholarship. Student Loans (Harvard, Perkins, and Direct Stafford) If you leave school and have borrowed at least one student loan, you are required by federal and institutional regulations to go through an Exit Interview. The Exit Interview is a counseling session that will summarize your borrowing, repayment obligations, and rights and responsibilities as a student loan borrower. Please contact us to set up your Exit Interview. Future Financial Aid and Charges If you are planning to return to school, please contact us (by February 1 for the following fall term and by October 1 for the following spring term) to let us know about your return and complete the financial aid application. You will be expected to earn the normal summer savings amount towards their next academic year expenses. You should be aware that all loan repayments and/or student account obligations must be current before any financial aid can be granted. You should contact us with any questions or concerns about your return to Harvard. You should also contact your Resident Dean for a student account worksheet before your return to school. Returning After Five or More Years If you have been away from the College for five or more years, you must petition the Administrative Board for permission to register. Those planning to return to the College after a period of five or more years will ordinarily not be eligible for scholarship aid from institutional sources. Petitions for readmission after an interval of five or more years must include evidence of financial resources necessary to meet all College expenses. Related Topics Financial Literacy Financial literacy: The more you know, and the more tools you have at your disposal, the better prepared you will be for life now and after Harvard.  Study Abroad Because global citizenship is an important component of a Harvard education, we are committed to making study abroad opportunities affordable for you.  Summer School Harvard is committed to helping you cover the cost of your entire education, including summer school.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Skip to site header Skip to main content