Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Courses Why College? Your Education and the Good Life Citizenship in the 21st Century Global Perspectives Students Compare Options to Fulfill the Requirement What Students Say Request a Course Change Enrollment FAQ Policies Get Involved Faculty Teach in COLLEGE President's Welcome Resources Affiliated Faculty and Lecturers Fellows Current Fellows Fellows in the News Professional Development Fellowship Search Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Teaching Fellowship The Stanford Introductory Studies Fellowship to Diversify Teaching and Learning Fellowship Search Courses Fellow Alumni Inside COLLEGE Contact Us COLLEGE News The Boothe Prize Boothe Prize Essays Creative Projects Creative Project Award Nominations President's Welcome Stanford University Welcome to COLLEGE! Learn more about the new first-year Civic, Liberal, and Global Education (COLLEGE) requirement. Main content start What is COLLEGE? COLLEGE is more than just shorthand for the first-year Civic, Liberal, and Global Education requirement: it signals the purpose of the courses, and a vision for what a college experience can be. Going to college is not just about acquiring the ability to make a living, but about exploring what makes living worthwhile. It’s also about developing the skills that empower and enable us to live together: in our own communities, in a diverse nation, and in a globally connected society. For Faculty: Teach in COLLEGE! For Students: See COLLEGE courses Four programs offer courses to fulfill the COLLEGE requirement: COLLEGE Courses Take two courses in different quarters. Choose from a selection of courses on liberal education, civic engagement, and global perspectives. Courses Education as Self-Fashioning (ESF) Offered only in Autumn quarter, ESF is a combined seminar, writing section, and lecture, that fulfills both WR1 and a single quarter of COLLEGE. ESF ITALIC Year-long, immersive residential program focused on the arts; fulfills multiple requirements including COLLEGE. Students both practice and study art, but previous art experience is not necessary. ITALIC Structured Liberal Education (SLE) Humanities-focused yearlong residential program fulfilling multiple requirements including COLLEGE: a liberal arts college experience within the research university. SLE Stanford Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Web Login Address Stanford University Introductory Studies Sweet Hall, Second Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Stanford Campus Map COLLEGE Administration Stanford Introductory Studies Connect with COLLEGE Email Us Stanford Undergrad Instagram Stanford Undergrad Twitter Web Accessibility Stanford University is committed to providing an online environment that is accessible to everyone, including individuals with disabilities. Having trouble accessing any of this content due to a disability? Learn more about accessibility at Stanford and report accessibility issues. Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top