Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Prospective Students On this page Overview Requirements Deadlines CSS Profile FAFSA IDOC Frequently Asked Questions Overview You Can Afford Harvard We will work with you and your family one-on-one to help you navigate the options and make sure Harvard is an affordable option for your education. Requirements The process to apply for financial aid is essentially the same for all prospective students. Regardless of your citizenship or when you are applying, you will need to submit a CSS Profile and an IDOC Packet. US Citizens and Permanent Residents will also need to submit the FAFSA, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. The FAFSA is a free form and if you only wish to apply for federal aid it is the only form you need to submit. The instructions below are for the 2022-2023 school year. The application can be submitted starting October 1, 2021. Applying for Financial Aid at Harvard This preview video does not contain audio. Video description: an illustrated guide to applying for financial aid Watch "How to Apply for Financial Aid" How to Apply for Financial Aid Video End of embedded content Deadlines Our goal is to provide you with a decision about financial aid at the time that you are admitted. For Restrictive Early Action applicants that means an estimate of financial aid in mid-December, and for both Restrictive Early Action and Regular Decision applications, a financial aid decision around April 1. Although we’ll accept a late application, we may not be able to get back to you as quickly as we would if your application was submitted along the timeline below. Please note that you cannot access IDOC until you have completed the CSS Profile. Financial Aid Application Deadlines Restrictive Early Action Regular Decision Transfer CSS Profile November 1 February 1 March 1 FAFSA November 1 February 1 March 1 IDOC November 1 February 1 March 1 FAQs about Deadlines How can I make this process easier? Keep a file with prior and current year wage statements, pay stubs, and tax documents. File your taxes as early as you can. US Citizens, be sure to double check your SSN on all submissions. Always use your full, legal name. No nicknames in financial aid! What if I'm an international student? International students are eligible for the same amount of aid as US students. If your parents file an income tax document in their country, you will submit that as part of the financial aid process. Make sure to translate the document to English. You don’t need an official translation - usually students will write the translation on the document themselves. If your parents don’t file an income tax document, submit a wage statement, pay slip, or letter from their employer(s) stating their annual income. Where can I track my aid application status? We don’t track financial aid materials until after admissions decisions have been made. In the meantime, you can log in to your College Board account to see your submissions. Rest assured that if you are admitted and we find something is missing, we’ll notify you. CSS Profile File the online 2022-2023 CSS Profile via the College Board. Make sure to include Harvard as a recipient using the code 3434. If your parents are married or live together, they will file one CSS Profile. If they are separated or divorced, each parent will fill out their own CSS Profile. The CSS Profile asks questions about your family’s financial situation including numbers you will find on your family’s tax returns. If you have not yet filed your tax returns, feel free to estimate. We’ll update the CSS Profile after you’ve submitted your actual tax returns. The CSS Profile has a built in fee waiver for US students, based on their financial circumstances. If you are an international student who cannot afford the CSS Profile fee, or if you live in a country from which the College Board cannot process payments, you may follow this alternate set of instructions. CSS Profile FAQs What if I make a mistake on the CSS Profile? We’ll update the CSS Profile with your tax information when it gets to IDOC. If you need to make other corrections that won’t naturally be updated by your taxes, you can update your Profile application once by clicking “Correct Your CSS Profile” on your CSS Profile Dashboard. FAFSA The FAFSA is a free form that determines your eligibility for federal aid. Only students who are US Citizens, Permanent Residents, or other eligible non-citizens will file the FAFSA. File the 2022-2023 FAFSA, which is available online or as a mobile app, starting October 1 (or possibly sooner). Remember to include Harvard’s code E00468 so that we receive the FAFSA. Read our guide: How to complete the FAFSA FAFSA FAQs What if I'm applying to more than 10 schools? The FAFSA will only let you have 10 schools listed at one time. You’re welcome to take Harvard off your list if you need more space, but be sure to add us back on if you are admitted. If it turns out that the FAFSA did not come through, we'll alert you if you are admitted. IDOC We require submission of tax and other documents through the College Board IDOC Service, which is a fast and secure way to upload your information for review. The IDOC Service is open to all applicants who have already completed a CSS Profile. IDOC will show a list of basic documents to be uploaded, but their list is not the definitive list of what you need to submit. Additional required documents are listed below. Gather together all of the following that apply, and submit them to IDOC. Please do not send draft or estimated taxes. We need the actual 2020 tax return as filed with the government. If your documents are not in English, please be sure to translate them. Parents’ 2020 income tax document for both parents: for US students, this is usually the signed 1040 Federal Income Tax Return with all pages and schedules, including W-2 Forms. For many international students, this will be whatever documentation of income your parents submit to their national government. If your parents do not file tax returns, please submit a Tax Non-Filer Statement, and whatever documentation they do have, such as a wage statement, salary certificate, or letter from their employer(s) stating annual income. Student’s 2020 income tax document: if you do not file a tax document, please submit a Tax Non-Filer Statement, and a copy of any W-2 Forms, if you received any. Students who submit tax returns should be sure that they are signed. Business documents: if either of your parents has an interest in a business or farm, submit: A Business/Farm Supplement Form for each business and/or farm. The 2020 business tax return for each business and/or farm. In the US, this refers to the full 1065 Partnership Return, 1120 S Corporate Return, and 1120 Corporate Return, along with K-1 Statements. Trust or estate documents: if you or your parents are the beneficiary of an estate or trust, submit: The full Trust Tax Return. A letter explaining the contents of the trust or estate, value, and accessibility. Additional information: if you have any unusual expenses or special circumstances to share, feel free to submit a letter with the rest of your documents. Frequently Asked Questions Can I email my documents? No. Email is not a secure method for sending financial aid information. Please submit everything as described in our instructions. Do I need to submit every page of the tax return? You should include all pages and schedules of your federal or national income tax return. A common mistake is for US students to send only one or two pages of the tax return, leaving out the schedules (for example Schedule 1, Schedule A, Schedule B, etc). You do not need to send copies of state tax returns. Canadian Student Tips The Canadian tax document you must submit is called the T-1 General Form. The corporate return is called the T-2 Corporate Return. Late Tax Filing If your parents file for an extension or won’t be able to file taxes by the application deadline, sit tight and submit them whenever they become available. Obviously, it’s better to file early, but a late application just pushes back when you get your financial aid decision - it does not affect your eligibility for aid. Is IDOC's list of required documents definitive? No. IDOC will show only the most common, basic, required documents. You should use our list of required documents from this instructions page as your list of required documents. Submit to IDOC anything else as an ‘institution specific required document’ or ‘other document’. Can I use the IDOC's tax non-filer statement instead of Harvard's? Feel free to use either Tax Non-Filer Statement, whether from our website, or the IDOC website. Both are acceptable. Related Topics Affordability For 90% of American families, Harvard is more affordable than their local state school.  How to complete the FAFSA Tips on how to complete the FAFSA, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid.  First-Year Applicants Here's everything you need to know about applying to Harvard College as a first-year applicant.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Skip to site header Skip to main content