Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College Learn Beyond the Classroom You have vast opportunities to expand your learning and explore your intellectual passions on campus and beyond. Learn Beyond the Classroom You have vast opportunities to expand your learning and explore your intellectual passions on campus and beyond. At Brown, you have rich, varied opportunities to extend the bounds of your learning beyond the classroom — throughout campus, your communities, society and the world. Whether completing a term as a domestic or international exchange student, participating in community engagement or community-based research opportunities, or taking advantage of Brown-sponsored internship, research and entrepreneurship programs, students are provided support and opportunities to expand their intellectual pursuits, social passions and professional endeavors. Study Programs Back to Top International Study Opportunities Brown students can study abroad through a traditional program or they may participate in a travel experience embedded in their coursework. U.S. Study Opportunities Students at Brown have varied opportunities to study at other U.S. colleges and universities — both around the country and close to campus. BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs BE^3 Brown offers three experiential learning opportunities: Berlin: Research & Entrepreneurship; Boston: BioTech & Life Sciences; and U.S.: Campaigns & Social Change. Engaged Learning Back to Top Brown offers students a variety of ways to serve their communities beyond campus. The Swearer Center for Public Service sponsors a range of programs based both locally and outside of Providence. Community-Based Learning and Research courses invite students to work with community partners to address pressing social challenges. In addition, the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) program offers financial support to students as they prepare for U.S. military service. Learn more Entrepreneurship Back to Top Students at Brown have access to a vibrant community of entrepreneurs. Gain mentorship from successful faculty and alumni entrepreneurs and develop your own innovative projects alongside your peers through the Swearer Center Social Innovation Fellowship, the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship and the Brown Venture Launch Fund. Brown Venture Launch Fund Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Swearer Center Social Innovation Fellowship Internships Back to Top CareerLAB offers programs that provide Brown students with rich internship and mentoring experiences. The BrownConnect team connects students to professional opportunities being offered within the broader Brown community. They also offer funding awards, providing students with access to funding for opportunities, both domestic and abroad. BrownConnect Signature Internship Programs Fellowships and Research Funding Back to Top Fellowships@Brown The Fellowships at Brown office supports students to apply for nationally competitive fellowships that fund domestic and international independent research and travel, teaching, and post-baccalaureate work or study. Undergraduate Research Brown sponsors a number of fellowship and grant programs that support undergraduate research during the summer or the academic year. Many of our awards are specifically designed to facilitate faculty-student research collaborations, including Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards (UTRAs), Research at Brown (RAB) Grants and the Royce Fellowships. Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Learn Beyond the Classroom Open details for Learn Beyond the Classroom Bookmark this Page