Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard My First-Year Residential Life Experience and Dorm Tour Category Student Voices Author Authored on May 14, 2022 Share Share on Twitter Twitter Share on Facebook Facebook Article Residential life can be one of the most significant experiences of any student at Harvard College. Now that I am at the verge of completing my first year, it’s time to reflect on my residential experience over the past academic year. In this post I will be sharing about my first-year residential experience and taking you through a quick tour of the dorm room that I have been living in this past year. Where the dorm is: Among the many first-year dorms, I was placed to live in The Prescotts, entryway number 20. All first years live in one of the residential neighborhoods called Yards, which are located at the geographic and historic center of the college campus. My dorm, 20 Prescott, is in the Maple Yard which comprises other two dorms – The Inn and DeWolfe. Who we live with: All entryways are structured similarly. We live with a proctor (a Harvard administrator or a graduate student) who creates an academic and social community for the 20 to 40 first-year students in the same entryway. Our proctor, who also happened to be my academic advisor, served as an excellent source of information about academics, extracurriculars, social life, and College resources. A huge shoutout and special thanks to my proctor, Leanne Rowe, for her immeasurable help with my adjustment to Harvard and college life! My dorm/suite: During my first-year I have been living in a suite that I have been sharing with one other person. Our suite is found on the third floor of the building/entryway. Our suite has a private kitchen, a common room, a private bathroom, and a shared bedroom with two closets and an extra storage room. This type of dorm style is atypical for first-year students at Harvard. Our Yard, Maple Yard, was created to accommodate our larger class for the 21-22 school year. As such, many students in this Yard are in spaces that are not typical first-year dorms. The kitchen: My suitemate and I have a kitchen that is equipped with an oven, a dishwasher, kitchen cabinets, and a fridge. While many other dorms have shared kitchen areas, some dorms like ours in Maple Yard have in-suite kitchens. Sadly, the gas stove doesn’t work as the gas has been turned off to prevent any potential fires. However, the oven works perfectly and we’ve had some neighbors bake cakes and cookies for the entryway. The common room: Our suite has a common room with a couch by the window, two bookshelves (one of which we turned into a shoe rack), two study desks (with drawers) and chairs, and a classic non-working fireplace (covered up to prevent fire emergencies). When not using the common room for studying or just resting, we use it to host a few friends to hang out. A private bathroom: Our suite has a private bathroom with a bathtub and a mirror. The majority of first-year students in other dorms have communal bathrooms that may be shared among students living on the same floor. My situation is unique given the creation of the new Maple Yard. The bedroom: Our suite has a shared bedroom with two beds, two closets, two dressers, and a small extra room for storage where we keep our bags and other belongings. My suitemate and I decided to move one bed to the common room and turn it into a bedroom, and created “singles” so that we could have our own private spaces. At the start of the next academic year, I will be moving to an upperclassmen house, Pforzheimer (aka Pfoho) House. I found that out during Housing Day - the day when all first-year students learn about which House that they will be moving into during their sophomore year and beyond. In one of my future blog posts, I will be sharing about my life in Pfoho and giving a room tour as well! Tags First-Year Residential Life Student Life Share Share on Twitter Twitter Share on Facebook Facebook Book Icon Next Story: Ready for College? A Guide to Packing for Harvard Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you.