Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Net Price Calculator To estimate how much you and your family will need to contribute for one year at Harvard, we're going to take you through the following steps: Net Price Calculator Steps  1. Family Information Edit  2. Income Information Edit  3. Asset Information Edit  4. Net Price Estimate ? Frequently Asked Questions ? What You Need Close Frequently Asked Questions Common questions about Harvard's financial aid program Does applying for financial aid affect my chances of admission? No. Your financial circumstances are never an impediment to admission. International students have the same access to financial aid funding as do U.S. citizens. Are there any merit-based scholarships at Harvard? No, we admit students based on their strengths and talents, but all Harvard-administered aid is based only on financial need, and we treat all admitted students equally in terms of their eligibility for that aid. What happens to my financial aid if I receive additional outside assistance or other scholarships? A large percentage of each entering first-year class receives one or more outside awards from national or local organizations. When adjusting the Harvard financial aid package, 100% of the total outside award amount is first deducted from your work expectation. If the total of outside awards exceeds your work expectation, that excess amount is deducted from the Harvard Scholarship. Since outside awards are additional resources that help to meet need, they may not be used to replace your parents’ contribution or other expected family resource. For example, if you were originally offered a financial aid package with a $3,500 job, and a $15,000 Harvard Scholarship and subsequently receive a $2,000 National Merit award and $1,000 from the Elks Club, then we will reduce your term-time job expectation to $500. Only if outside awards exceeded $3,500 would they have any impact upon the amount of Harvard Scholarship. Is there financial aid for international students? Yes, financial aid is provided on exactly the same basis for international students as for American students. Although international students are not eligible for any federal funding, the College has its own job and scholarship money available to international students. How should I fill out the Net Price Calculator if my parents are divorced or separated? If your parents are divorced or separated, each parent’s contribution is assessed separately. Each parent should use the calculator to obtain an estimated cost for their personal income and asset information. The total estimated net price to attend Harvard is the sum of the estimates for the two parents. Remarried parents should separate their income and assets from the applicant’s step-parent’s income and assets. For assets where a clear separation isn’t obvious, please halve the value of these assets and include this value. If you have additional questions about applying for financial aid, please reference our full list of Frequently Asked Questions or contact us. Close What You Need You should use your family's most recent year’s income and asset information (converted to U.S. dollars if applicable). We will only request tax forms and other financial documents to verify this information when you complete a financial aid application. Net Price Calculator Form ! Important: Before You Start Remember, this is not an application for financial aid. The calculator is simply a tool to estimate how much your family will need to contribute for one year at Harvard. You will be asked to provide personal information about your family, and finances. We do not save this information; it is only used within the calculator. This calculator provides a good estimate, but it is not a guarantee of financial aid. También se puede usar la calculadora en español. Note to screen reader users: As you fill out the form below, error messages in the form will be read aloud. Also, once you have completed the form, if you change any fields, your updated estimate will be read aloud. 1/4 Family Information Every family is different and many of them are complex – something which is hard to capture in a calculator. Remember this is only an estimate, so enter information that best resembles your situation. Once you are admitted, we will work closely with you to fully understand your family's unique financial circumstances. If your parents are separated or divorced, each parent should fill out the calculator with their own information. Region : Primary residence United States Canada Africa Asia Australia New Zealand Caribbean Central America Europe Middle East South America Turkey U.S. State , Primary residence Alaska Alabama Arkansas Arizona California Colorado Connecticut District of Columbia Delaware Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Iowa Idaho Illinois Indiana Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Massachusetts Maryland Maine Michigan Minnesota Missouri Mississippi Montana North Carolina North Dakota Nebraska New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico Nevada New York Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Virginia Virgin Islands Vermont Washington Wisconsin West Virginia Wyoming Canadian Province , Primary residence Alberta British Columbia Manitoba New Brunswick Newfoundland Northwest Territories Nova Scotia Nunavut Ontario Prince Edward Island Quebec Saskatchewan Yukon Instructions: ? Instructions: Primary residence We use this to determine your travel allowance (done by state for US students, province for Canadian students and by world region for other international students). Close Instructions: Primary residence The number of people in your family * Required Instructions: ? Instructions: The number of people in your family This includes your parent(s) and the number of dependent people in your household, including those in college. Close Instructions: The number of people in your family The number of children in college * Required Instructions: ? Instructions: The number of children in college You should enter the number of children who will be in college during the academic year, including you. If there will be more than one child enrolled in college, the calculator assumes that the additional child’s cost to your family is comparable to, or higher than, what you would pay to attend Harvard. (For example, if you select “2 in college” and the calculator estimates a Net Price of $15,000 for you, it is assuming that the second child’s cost to the family is $15,000 or more.) Close Instructions: The number of children in college * Required 2/4 Income Information You should use your most recent year’s income information (converted to U.S. dollars if applicable). We will request tax forms and other financial documents to verify this information when you complete a financial aid application. Parent income/gross wages (USD) US Instructions: ? Instructions: Parent income/gross wages This includes your total annual pre-tax earnings (including any voluntary retirement contributions such as Tax Deferred Accounts) from your wage statements. Do not include self-employment income or business income; include those amounts under business/farm income. Close Instructions: Parent income/gross wages This includes total annual pre-tax earnings. Interest/dividend income (USD) US Instructions: ? Instructions: Interest/dividend income This includes your total taxed and untaxed interest and dividend income. Close Instructions: Interest/dividend income You should include both taxed and untaxed interest and dividend income. Business/farm income (USD) US Instructions: ? Instructions: Business/farm income You should include total business or farm net income before adjusting for depreciation and/or losses. For US tax filers: business/farm income is normally found on Schedule(s) C and/or F. You should also examine each partnership or corporation (e.g. IRS forms 1120, 1120S or 1065) in which you have an interest. Harvard excludes depreciation expense and/or losses when calculating net business income. Close Instructions: Business/farm income Real estate income (USD) US Instructions: ? Instructions: Real estate income You should include net income from rental real estate activity before adjusting for depreciation and/or losses. For US tax filers, rental real estate activity is normally reported on Schedule E. Harvard excludes depreciation expense and/or losses when calculating net rental real estate income. Close Instructions: Real estate income Other income (USD) US Instructions: ? Instructions: Other income You should include any other income not reported elsewhere. This often includes income from trusts, gifts, taxed and untaxed social security, child support received, alimony received, untaxed housing and food allowances, recurring (taxed and untaxed) pension withdrawals, disability payments, etc. (Note: We usually exclude capital losses from income, which is why a negative number may not be entered. Additionally, if your capital gain is not your regular source of income, but rather a one-time event, Harvard may elect to exclude it from income.) Close Instructions: Other income 3/4 Asset Information Use the most recent year’s asset information, converted to U.S. dollars. We will request tax forms and other financial documents to verify this information when you complete a financial aid application. Parent Assets Cash and investments (USD) US Instructions: ? Instructions: Cash and investments Cash: You should include all cash amounts - typically in savings and checking accounts. Investments: You should include the present value of stocks and bonds (excluding those held in traditional retirement accounts) but may also need to include more complex investments. Close Instructions: Cash and investments Business/farm equity (USD) US Instructions: ? Instructions: Business/farm equity This should represent the fair market value of your ownership share of any business or farm, less your share of any debts. Close Instructions: Business/farm equity Real estate equity (but not home equity) (USD) US Instructions: ? Instructions: Real estate equity (but not home equity) This should represent the fair market value of your ownership share of any real estate (excluding your primary residence) not already reflected in the Business/Farm section, less your share of any debts. Close Instructions: Real estate equity (but not home equity) Other assets (USD) US Instructions: ? Instructions: Other assets Report the net value of any other asset not included elsewhere. This may include trusts, other non-rental real estate such as a vacation home, sibling assets, etc. Close Instructions: Other assets Student Assets Student assets (USD) US Instructions: ? Instructions: Student assets You should include all assets held in your name - do not include these elsewhere. If you are the beneficiary of a trust, include your share of the fair market value of the trust here. Close Instructions: Student assets 4/4 Net Price Estimate Alert You are viewing an estimate that's been shared with you Someone has shared this estimate with you. You can edit the figures to re-calculate the estimate and see how affordable Harvard can be for your family. Close Estimated Financial Aid Package Estimated Scholarship Your Cost Your Cost Details Cost to Parents Student Asset Contribution Student Term-Time Work Although our preliminary calculation suggests you are not currently eligible for Harvard scholarship assistance, we encourage you to apply for financial aid if you feel you need help. ! The following billed and unbilled costs were used in calculating your Net Price Estimate. Total Billed & Unbilled Costs Total Billed & Unbilled Costs Details Tuition & Fees Room & Board Books & Personal Expenses Estimated Travel Costs Learn More About the Estimate Share this Estimate Link copied to clipboard A personalized link has been copied to your clipboard. Paste this link in a message and the recipient will be able to see your estimate. Close Link copied to clipboard Your Cost Learn More About Harvard Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch. Sign Up Calculator Apply for Financial Aid Ready to apply for financial aid? We strive to make our financial aid application as streamlined as possible. And we're here to help. Apply for Financial Aid Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you.