Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Who We Are Departments, Programs & Centers Contact Dean's Office » Academics Select to follow link Why Choose the College What is a major? Explore Majors Accelerated Degrees Graduate Study College Online » Research Student Experience Select to follow link The Classroom Experience Hands-on Learning Take Your Professor to Lunch College Stories » After Graduation Select to follow link Alumni Impact Career Coaching Hawks to Watch » Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Select to follow link Creating an Inclusive Environment Student Services Select to follow link College Advising & Student Services (CASS) » College Office of Graduate Affairs (COGA) » Support Select to follow link Ways to Give Advisory Board Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Heart of KU The College of Liberal Arts & Sciences is the heart of KU. We are home to more than 50 departments, programs and centers, offering more than 100 majors, minors and certificates. We are a collaborative and creative community, committed to making the world better through inquiry and research. College Stats 120 Academic Programs 80% of classes with 30 or fewer students 90% placement rate after graduation What is the College? See what makes the College the largest and most academically diverse school at KU. Find Your Passion The College offers you the flexibility to complete your degree your way. Explore as many subjects as you like and pursue your passions. Explore Majors Learn More Why the College? Learn More Our Research Learn More Alumni Impact Learn More Swipe to see more Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 clasdean@ku.edu facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Explore Majors Research Alumni Impact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.