Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Life at Harvard Health & Wellbeing On this page Overview Health and Support Resources Spiritual Wellbeing Overview Be Your Best Self Taking the time to care for your mental and physical wellbeing positions you to do your best in the classroom, on the field, or in any endeavor your set your mind to. Harvard's wide array of opportunities provide a strong foundation to help you stay healthy and learn about methods to maximize wellbeing. Health and Support Resources Ensuring a safe and secure environment is a critical priority. Harvard remains dedicated to supporting and protecting our community. From mental health needs to treatment for illness and injuries, Harvard takes care of your body and mind. resources Harvard University Health Services Access to primary care physicians, specialists, and mental health professionals is available through Harvard University Health Services (HUHS). Center for Wellness and Health Promotion The Center for Wellness and Health Promotion (CWHP) cultivates individuals and collective wellbeing through holistic educational experiences. The CWHP focuses on many health and wellbeing topics including alcohol and other substances, mindfulness and meditation, sexual health, and sleep. Learn more on their website. Counseling & Mental Health Services Counseling and Mental Health Services supports all students who are enrolled at Harvard on any issue that they may be facing. Meetings with a counselor (psychologist, social worker, licensed mental health clinician, clinical nurse specialist or a psychiatrist) are free and confidential. Additionally, peer groups associated with Counseling and Mental Health Services celebrate and support each other in every endeavor, and offer valuable perspectives on the challenges Harvard undergraduates face. Harvard students who have mental health concerns, whether they are in immediate distress or not, on-campus or elsewhere, can call the CAMHS Cares 24/7 support line at (617) 495 2042. Harvard University Dining Services Harvard University Dining Services' (HUDS) nutrition standards are based on the recommendations of the Harvard School of Public Health’s Department of Nutrition. Whether you have food sensitivities or follow a specific diet, Harvard Dining Services has nutrition and dietary resources to support your needs. If you have questions or concerns about your diet, Harvard University Health Services has registered nutritionists and dietitians to discuss food options that work for you. Urgent Care Urgent Care provides advice and treatment for urgent health problems, both physical and emotional, that require prompt attention but are not life threatening emergencies. If a problem seems life-threatening, please call 911 immediately. SHARE (Sexual Harassment/Assault Resources & Education As a part of the Office for Gender Equity (OGE), SHARE (Sexual Harassment/Assault Resources & Education) provides confidential support and counseling to Harvard community members, including students, staff, faculty, and post-doc fellows who have been impacted by sexual harassment, sexual assault, stalking, and abusive relationships. This includes: Trauma-informed advocacy-based counseling Psychoeducational and support groups 24/7 confidential hotline (617-495-9100) Support navigating resources on and off campus, including help understanding processes (i.e. Title IX, reporting to the police, applying for a restraining order, etc.) In addition, SHARE works as a part of OGE in designing and implementing violence prevention and education initiatives related to dynamics of power, bystander intervention, shifting community cultural norms, and trauma informed support. We invite you to visit our website and explore our education, training, outreach, and support options! We are happy to connect with you. SHARE Smith Campus Center, Suite 624 Office Phone Number: 617-496-5636 Confidential Hotline Number: 617-495-9100 Oge_SHARE@harvard.edu College Title IX The College Title IX Office is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy educational and work environment that is free from sexual and gender-based harassment. They provide ongoing support, training, and monthly workshops on key topics to their network of more than 50 College Title IX Coordinators. They work with Harvard and community resources to ensure that students, staff, and faculty receive accurate and consistent information regarding available resources and options. They also provide direct support to community members, including facilitation of informal resolutions. University Ombudsman Office The Ombudsman Office is an independent, neutral and confidential place for visitors to discuss their academic and workplace issues and concerns. Our office is informal, assures confidentiality, and is independent of University administration. Longwood Ombuds Office The Ombuds Office provides its visitors with a highly confidential and informal forum in which to help them to clarify their concerns, identify their goals and consider all of their options in managing or resolving their concerns. The Ombudsperson serves students, faculty, staff and trainees of Harvard Medical School, Harvard School of Dental Medicine and Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and is independent in structure, function and appearance. Groups Fitness Harvard College has two campus gyms and a number of fitness centers to help you stay active with cardio, weight training, swimming, and other activities—or take classes in Zumba, HIIT, barre, and more. Visit Harvard Recreation Spiritual Wellbeing A sense of spiritual grounding can be a powerful aspect of mental wellbeing. Whether you have questions about faith or need a moment of quiet reflection, you can find guidance and comfort through spiritual and religious services at Harvard. Spiritual Wellbeing Harvard Chaplains The Harvard Chaplains are a professional community of more than thirty chaplains, representing many of the world’s religious, spiritual, and ethical traditions, who share a collective commitment to serving the spiritual needs of the students, faculty, and staff of Harvard University. Memorial Church The Memorial Church of Harvard University is an interdenominational Protestant church in the midst of Harvard Yard that serves as a place of spiritual refuge to the entire community. Harvard Catholic Center The Harvard Catholic Center provides ministerial and programming elements for Harvard students including retreats, educational and formational programs and service opportunities. Harvard Hillel The Harvard Hillel provides every Jewish Harvard student—without regard to ideological commitment or background—appropriate grounding for making meaningful Jewish choices in a complex and changing world. Harvard Islamic Society The Harvard Islamic Society (HIS) of Harvard College was established in 1955 as a hub for Islamic life on campus. HIS is primarily run by undergraduates, who work in conjunction with the graduates schools and their Islamic societies to establish a diverse and coherent Muslim community. Harvard University Police Department (HUPD) The mission of the Harvard University Police Department (HUPD) is to maintain a safe and secure campus by providing quality policing in partnership with the community. Visit the HUPD website Related Topics Guide to Student Wellness Groups Harvard also has several student wellness groups, that promote and advocate for mental health and wellbeing for all students on campus.  Student Activities Activities outside the classroom help you explore new interests, grow your talents, and make new friends.  Athletics Join a team—or make your own. It is easy to make athletics and physical fitness a regular part of your Harvard undergraduate experience.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Skip to site header Skip to main content