Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Video description: Students in a classroom Breadcrumb Academics Liberal Arts & Sciences On this page Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Education Concentrations Harvard College Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Overview Plan Your Academic Journey The undergraduate degree is designed with flexibility in mind: you set your own academic goals, and we'll help you plan coursework to meet them—while also ensuring you receive a broad liberal arts and sciences education. Liberal Arts & Sciences Education Academic Exploration Across Disciplines As President Lawrence Bacow, stated in his 2018 installation address, “Given the necessity today of thinking critically… a broad liberal arts education has never been more important.” FAQ What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Commitment to liberal arts & sciences is at the core of Harvard College’s mission: before students can help change the world, they need to understand it. The liberal arts & sciences offer a broad intellectual foundation for the tools to think critically, reason analytically and write clearly. These proficiencies will prepare students to navigate the world’s most complex issues, and address future innovations with unforeseen challenges. Shaped by ideas encountered and created, these new modes of thinking will prepare students for leading meaningful lives, with conscientious global citizenship, to enhance the greater good. Harvard offers General Education courses that show the liberal arts and sciences in action. They pose enduring questions, they frame urgent problems, and they help students see that no one discipline can answer those questions or grapple with those problems on its own. Students are challenged to ask difficult questions, explore unfamiliar concepts, and indulge in their passion for inquiry and discovery across disciplines. Concentrations You have many options when pursuing your Harvard degree. We offer more than 3,700 courses in 50 undergraduate fields of study, which we call concentrations. A number of our concentrations are interdisciplinary. View all Concentrations Discover the Arts & Humanities This preview video does not contain audio. Watch "Discover the Arts & Humanities" The Harvard College Discover the Arts & Humanities Video End of embedded content Harvard College Curriculum Approximately a third of courses towards your degree fulfill Harvard College requirements. This includes classes in the areas of General Education, Distribution, Quantitative Reasoning with Data, Expository Writing, and Language. “We want Gen Ed to be the kind of courses faculty have always dreamed of teaching — and the kind students never forget.”* For detailed explanations of academic requirements, consult the Harvard College Curriculum. Components of your degree General Education Harvard's Program in General Education connects students to the world beyond the classroom by focusing on urgent problems and enduring questions. Students take one course in each of four categories: Aesthetics & Culture; Ethics & Civics; Histories, Societies, Individuals; as well as Science & Technology in Society. Distribution The distribution requirement exposes students to the range of scholarly disciplines offered at Harvard. Students take one course in each of the three main divisions of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and the Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences: Arts and Humanities; Social Sciences; as well as Science, Engineering, and Applied Sciences. Quantitative Reasoning with Data Quantitative Reasoning with Data courses teach students how to think critically about the data they’ll encounter. Students learn the computational, mathematical, and statistical techniques needed to understand data. They’ll also learn how to use those techniques in the real world, where data sets are imperfect and incomplete, sometimes compromised, always contingent. Finally, they’ll reflect on all the questions raised by our current uses of data — questions that are social and ethical and epistemological. Expository Writing The writing requirement is a one-semester course offered by the Harvard College Writing Program that focuses on analytic composition and revision. Expos courses are taken as first-year students and are taught in small seminars focusing on writing proficiency in scholarly writing. Students meet one-on-one with instructors (called preceptors) regularly to refine writing skills. Depending on the result of the summer writing placement exam, some students take a full year of Expos. Language Students may take a year-long (eight credit) or two semester-long (four credits each) courses in a single language at Harvard. Courses taken abroad may also be considered with prior approval. Students who study language at Harvard will have their record updated upon successful completion of the coursework. A list of the foreign languages offered at Harvard can be found on the Arts and Humanities website. *Quote by: Amanda Claybaugh, Dean of Undergraduate Education Research Study Spaces Looking for comfortable furniture to study on? A room where you can meet with a group? A private desk in an open space? Or maybe just a printer near your next class? Find a library space for your needs Electives The number of elective courses in your program will depend on a number of factors, including your concentration and whether or not you pursue an honors degree. Other Academic Opportunities Secondary Fields In addition to your concentration, you can pursue a secondary field (sometimes called a minor at other institutions). There are currently 50 secondary fields. A secondary field is an excellent way to expand your education into multiple intellectual interests. Work with your adviser to develop a plan of study that matches your goals. Language Citation Undertaking advanced study in an ancient or modern language gives you a unique perspective the literature, history, and viewpoints of another culture. Each language citation program consists of four courses of language instruction beyond the first-year level, including at least two courses at the third-year level or beyond. Independent Study Independent Study allows for academic inquiry not available through regular coursework—such as an interdisciplinary investigation, an arts practice or performance study, or a field research project. Speak with your adviser to find out if this option is a good fit for you. Fourth Year Master's Degree Advanced Standing students can apply to earn a master's degree in select fields of study during their fourth year at Harvard. Enroll at Affiliated Institutions Harvard undergraduates can take classes at one of Harvard's ten graduate schools or cross-enroll at other Boston-area institutions. Dual Degree Music Programs If you are a talented musician and dedicated scholar choosing between in-depth music training and a liberal arts education, you can apply to Harvard College’s dual degree programs with the New England Conservatory (NEC) and Berklee College of Music. Learn more about Dual Degree Music Programs Tour Study Abroad Escape the bubble and expand your horizons by enrolling at a foreign university for up to a full year. The Office of International Education can help you discover how study abroad can fit into your plan of study. Learn more about studying abroad Learn More About Harvard Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch. Sign Up Related Topics Reading and Examination Period Harvard is committed to supporting students and providing them with information, tips, and resources as they enter Reading and Examination Period.  Residential Life Residential Life at Harvard provides the opportunity to develop your own community through shared experiences.  Advising As a Harvard student, you have access to several different advising resources - all here to support your intellectual, personal, and social growth.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Skip to site header Skip to main content