Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College Seek Advising and Support You have access to an array of advisors and support while building your Brown educational experience. Seek Advising and Support You have access to an array of advisors and support while building your Brown educational experience. As a student at Brown, you have freedom to personalize your own academic experiences, but you are not expected to do so alone. The College, in partnership with many other offices on campus, offers a wide range of advising to support students as they navigate their diverse academic, co-curricular and personal paths. Whether planning coursework, mapping financial aid options, seeking help with a personal circumstance, or tackling an academic challenge, students have access to advisors who offer guidance tailored to their individual needs. Advising Sidekick Manage your upcoming advising sessions, assignments and events. Go to ASK Academic Advising Hours Back to Top Speak with an Academic Dean You can schedule a meeting or attend drop-in hours to speak with a dean about academic issues. Search for a Contact If you're seeking academic assistance or need help with another question, enter a search term to find the right resource in the College. Advising For... Back to Top First-Generation Students International Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Students Transfer Students Advising By Year Back to Top First-Year Advising Sophomore Advising Junior Advising Senior Advising Peer Advisors Back to Top Meiklejohn peer advisors provide first-year students with an informed student perspective on Brown’s curricular options and student life in general. Meiklejohns are paired with faculty and staff advisors and meet with a small group of assigned student advisees throughout the year. The Curricular Resource Center for Peer Advising (CRC) also provides students with a community of peer advisors who can help them engage with the Open Curriculum and effectively utilize Brown’s academic resources. Peer advisors also serve in critical roles for other offices and programs across the University. Personal Support Back to Top Addiction and Recovery Bereavement Grief Support and Referral Financial Advising Supporting Students in Distress Academic Support Back to Top Academic Support Services Academic Tutoring English Language Learning Support Programs Exams & Course Completion Student Accessibility Services Writing Support Back to Top Writing Center Writing Fellows Courses Writing Fellows Program Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Seek Advising and Support Open details for Seek Advising and Support Bookmark this Page