Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / The College / Mission and Values Mission and Values Mission NTC fosters intellectual curiosity, a sense of belonging, commitment to equity, and diversity of thought and experience that transcends the disciplines in order to shape undergraduates into multifaceted, ethical leaders who have a meaningful impact in the world and in their communities. Vision Newcomb-Tulane College is the foundation of the Tulane undergraduate academic journey. Grounded in an equity mindset, the College inspires our dynamic campus community to collaborate across fields and disciplines and empowers students’ intellectual exploration and growth through our innovative infrastructure of programs, resources and opportunities. Operating Principles The NTC staff bring our mission to life by embracing their vital role in the academic lives of students in their transition to college, throughout their time at Tulane and as they chart their future. NTC challenges and supports students to do their best and empowers them to make the most of their Tulane experience as an investment in their future. NTC acts as a catalyst for the development of each student’s intellect, adventurousness, and creativity both within and beyond the classroom and prepares its students to be leaders and citizens who think and engage critically, imaginatively, and with integrity. NTC partners with faculty in fostering students’ agency to chart their unique academic course. NTC encourages students to find their place in the larger intellectual community that our research university provides across disciplines. NTC values/esteems diversity of race, ethnicity, gender and sexual identity, socioeconomic class and more among our students. Values Equity Academic Distinction Inclusivity Creativity Collaboration Tenacity Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University