Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Breadcrumb Home Learn Beyond the Classroom BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Education | Experience | Exploration The BE3 Brown experiential learning programs – Berlin: Research & Entrepreneurship; Boston: BioTech & Life Sciences; and U.S.: Campaigns & Social Change – combine internships and coursework over the summer and fall terms. Students have the opportunity to gain direct experience in a dynamic field, innovate alongside professional mentors, and collaborate with fellow Brown students in small cohorts. Undergraduate participants may earn up to five course credits (or their equivalent) while engaging in an immersive, extended internship opportunity. The number of credits earned will be contingent on successful course completion. Students in Berlin will complete their coursework at Humboldt University International Campus, following Brown's travel policies. There is no German language requirement for participation. Students in Boston will enroll in on-campus and online courses at Brown. Participants in the Campaigns & Social Change program will complete a series of online courses at Brown and may be based in the location of their choice in the U.S. Internships will be arranged with the aid of CareerLAB and program partners. Brown undergraduates who receive University Scholarship during the academic year will be eligible for need-based financial aid to cover a portion of the cost of attendance. Application Information Virtual Office Hours FAQ Application Information The BE3 Brown Application is open now. The deadline for applications has been extended to April 15, 2022. In addition to completing the online application, students must request one letter of recommendation from a Brown faculty or staff member. Letters of recommendation should be emailed to experiential_learning@brown.edu. If a letter of recommendation is expected to be submitted later than April 15th, students may indicate this on the application along with the name of the faculty/staff member who will be submitting a letter. If you anticipate any accessibility challenges in completing the application, please contact experiential_learning@brown.edu. Apply Now Virtual Office Hours Virtual office hours will be held twice weekly through the application deadline to answer any questions you may have. Tuesdays (March 1, March 8, and March 15) 10:00 a.m. - 11:30 p.m. Fridays (February 25, March 4, and March 11, and March 18) 1:00 - 2:00 p.m. Join office hours FAQ Learn more about logistics, costs, internships and applications for BE Brown programs on the Frequently Asked Questions page. View the BE3 Brown information session held on March 3, 2022 You may also email experiential_learning@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Open details for BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Bookmark this Page