Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College Design Your Education Every journey through Brown’s Open Curriculum is unique. Each semester is a new chapter that you chart in your education. Sub Navigation In This Section Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Design Your Education Every journey through Brown’s Open Curriculum is unique. Each semester is a new chapter that you chart in your education. A strong liberal arts education gives you a breadth of knowledge across multiple academic fields of study, providing an educational foundation through which you develop the skills to think critically, problem solve, listen actively, communicate clearly and understand the world around you. At Brown, the Open Curriculum gives you the freedom to tap into your own interests. Instead of taking a prescribed set of general core requirements, you are the architect of your own educational experience. At the same time, you remain open to people, ideas and experiences that may be entirely new. By putting you in charge of your own education, the Open Curriculum aims to foster a love for learning, collaboration and continuous discovery. These are skills you’ll need for life. Explore the Open Curriculum Learn more about Brown’s distinctive approach to an undergraduate education. Choose a Focus An academic concentration is the focal point of your undergraduate educational experience at Brown. It is an in-depth study centering on a discipline or disciplines, a problem or a theme, or a broad question. Complete Your Degree As an undergraduate student at Brown, you have enormous latitude to shape your own course of study while completing the requirements to earn your degree. Academic Policies Learn more about Brown’s academic policies, including the Academic Code, class attendance, writing requirement and more. Courses@Brown Courses@Brown is Brown’s online course catalog. It allows you to view course descriptions, enrollments, meeting times, instructors and often the class syllabus. Search for Courses Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Design Your Education Open details for Design Your Education Bookmark this Page