Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Admissions On this page Overview In Response to COVID-19 Why Harvard Explore How to Apply Admissions Statistics Policies and Reporting Overview The Future is Calling Harness your curiosity and learn about the world—and yourself. Through our liberal arts and sciences curriculum, you'll discover how to use your passions to build a bright future. Frequently Asked Questions Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? We are committed to making the application process accessible for all students. If the admissions application fee presents a hardship for you or your family, the fee will be waived. Please follow the steps below to request a fee waiver: Common Application Select “Yes” when asked “Do you feel that your financial circumstances might qualify you for an application fee waiver?” Confirm that you meet at least one of the indicators of economic need. If you do not meet one of the indicators of economic need, select “You can provide a supporting statement from a school official, college access counselor, financial aid officer, or community leader.” Harvard will not ask you to provide a supporting statement and your application will not be penalized if you select this option. Coalition Application Confirm that you meet at least one of the indicators of economic need listed in the Fee Waiver section of your Profile. If you do not meet one of the indicators of economic need, you may enter the Harvard-specific fee waiver code on the payment page: JH3S5Q2LX9 Transfer Applicants Please see the Transfer Application Requirements for information about requesting a transfer application fee waiver. What admissions criteria do you use? There is no formula for gaining admission to Harvard. Academic accomplishment in high school is important, but the Admissions Committee also considers many other criteria, such as community involvement, leadership and distinction in extracurricular activities, and personal qualities and character. We rely on teachers, counselors, and alumni to share information with us about an applicant's strength of character, his or her ability to overcome adversity, and other personal qualities. Are there secondary school course requirements for admission? There is no single academic path we expect all students to follow, but the strongest applicants take the most rigorous secondary school curricula available to them. An ideal four-year preparatory program includes four years of English, with extensive practice in writing; four years of math*; four years of science: biology, chemistry, physics, and an advanced course in one of these subjects; three years of history, including American and European history; and four years of one foreign language. *Applicants to Harvard should excel in a challenging high school math sequence corresponding to their educational interests and aspirations. Rigorous and relevant data science, computer science, statistics, mathematical modeling, calculus, and other advanced math classes are given equal consideration in the application process. Specifically, calculus is neither a requirement nor a preference for admission to Harvard. We understand that many students have no intention to pursue college coursework that requires a knowledge of calculus, and that other students are unsure of their future college studies. We also understand that not all students have the same opportunities to take certain math classes in high school, including calculus. Thus, we encourage applicants to pursue the pathways through math that are available to them and aligned with their interests and goals. Students intending to study engineering, computer science, physics, or other fields for which a knowledge of calculus is required may benefit from taking calculus in high school. However, applicants who have not taken calculus in high school can still pursue such fields of study here by starting with one of Harvard’s introductory calculus classes that has no high school calculus prerequisite. It is our hope that high schools offer a selection of math courses that focuses on conceptual understanding, promotes higher-order thinking, and encourages students to use mathematical reasoning to critically examine the world. We recognize that the traditional pathway to calculus is not the only way, or even the best way, to achieve this goal. Therefore, we encourage high schools, counselors, teachers, and students to explore other pathways through mathematics that will best support student learning, growth, and success. Black Lives Matter The Admissions & Financial Aid Office stands with Black people around the nation, and we unequivocally state that Black Lives Matter. Read the full statement In Response to COVID-19 We are delighted to once again be offering in-person campus visits. If you are unable to visit campus, we encourage you to explore Harvard College through our student stories, our online information sessions, and virtual tour. We have revised our application requirements to extend our standardized testing policy through the 2022-2026 application cycles. We will allow students to apply for admission without requiring ACT or SAT test results. You can view more detailed information about our campus operations on Campus Updates. Why Harvard Discover what makes Harvard the standard for liberal arts and sciences education. From our unparalleled academics to our revolutionary financial aid, we strive to offer the best resources to the next generation of leaders. Read more about choosing Harvard Crimson Pride Harvard is home to 42 Division I intercollegiate sports teams - more than any other college in the country. Innovation From physical spaces to funding, Harvard provides the support for students to investigate and explore their world. Groundbreaking Research Undergraduates have access to more than $7 million in funding to pursue research in the sciences, social sciences, arts, or humanities. Creative Expression Theater, Dance, and Media - one of Harvard's newest concentrations - is just one of the many pathways in the arts and humanities. Explore Harvard Explore From your own home, or while walking around Cambridge, there are lots of ways to explore our campus. Click any of the links below to learn more about everyday life at Harvard. Quick Links Explore Harvard Virtual Tour Online Information Sessions Read Student Stories Join Our Email List Take a Virtual Tour  Calculator Calculate Your Estimated Scholarship How affordable is Harvard? See for yourself with our Net Price Calculator. Net Price Calculator Apply How to Apply We’ll guide you through the Common Application or Coalition Application and answer any questions you have along the way. Quick Links First-Year Applicants Application Requirements Transfer Applicants International Applicants Visiting Undergraduate Students U.S. Military Veterans Admissions Deadlines November 1 Restrictive Early Action admissions deadline. Restrictive Early Action applicants are notified by mid-December. Learn more about applying under our Restrictive Early Action program. January 1 First-Year Regular Decision admissions deadline. Regular Decision applicants will be notified by the end of March. View the full first-year admissions timeline. First-Year Application Timeline test Spotlights and Stories Featured Stories My Favorite Places On / Around Campus Author: Risa Komatsu Class of '21  Multicultural Life at Harvard Author: Nikhil Dharmaraj Class of '23  My Experience Applying for Financial Aid at Harvard Author: Mayowa Jolayemi Class of '23  Latest Stories Reflections on a Transformative Experience Author: Olga Kiyan Class of '22 My First-Year Residential Life Experience and Dorm Tour Author: Ready for College? A Guide to Packing for Harvard Author: Raymond Zheng Class of '25 View all student stories Admissions News View all news Harvard to expand financial aid starting with Class of ’26 March 31st, 2022  Admissions Update for the 2023-2026 Application Cycles December 16th, 2021  1,962 admitted to the Class of 2025 June 6th, 2021  View all news Admissions Statistics Admissions Statistics Harvard welcomes students from across the country and all over the world, with diverse backgrounds and far-ranging talents and interests. Quick Links Admissions Statistics Diversity and Access Guide: Application Tips Financial Aid Fact Sheet A Profile of the Admitted Class of 2025 Statistics 57,786 57,786 Applicants 1,962 1,962 Enrolled students 15 15 % International students 55 55 % Receive need-based scholarships Learn More About Harvard Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch. Sign Up Related Topics First-Year Applicants Here's everything you need to know about applying to Harvard College as a first-year applicant.  Apply For Financial Aid We strive to make our financial aid application as streamlined as possible.  Application Requirements Here you'll find a detailed explanation of each requirement of the application, including teacher recommendations, test scores, and school reports.  Policies and Reporting Annual Fire Safety Report The Harvard University Environmental Health and Safety Department publishes the Annual Fire Safety Report, which includes fire safety polices, evacuation procedures, and fire statistics. Clery (Campus Security) Act The University is required by federal law (The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, 20 U.S.C. 1092(f), known as the “Clery Act”) to publish an annual security report. A copy of the report as well as the disclosure procedures can be found on the Harvard University Police website. Code of Conduct Harvard University is committed to the highest standard of ethics and conduct, and financial aid staff are bound to the conflict of interest and commitment policies applicable to all Harvard employees. Harvard has adopted a Code of Conduct relating to educational loan programs. Copyright Infringement Harvard University is committed to maintaining the integrity and availability of the Harvard network for the vital educational and research purposes for which it was designed and prohibits the use of its network to violate the law, including the U.S.Copyright Act. Please read the annual copyright disclosure. Disability University Disability Services serves as a central resource on disability-related information, procedures and services for the University community and provides expertise in the development, implementation, and acquisition of standard disability-related University practices, procedures and resources. FERPA The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (“FERPA”) is a federal law that gives students certain rights with respect to their education records. More information is available on the Registrar’s website. Retention and Graduation Rates As required, we have reported our graduation rates of degree-seeking, first-time, full-time undergraduates to the department via the IPEDs website. Additional rates for students in select categories can be found on this chart. Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Skip to site header Skip to main content