Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Life at Harvard Student Activities Traditions On this page Overview The Game Arts Global Day of Service Houses Visitas Commencement Overview Rich Traditions, Lasting Memories When you arrive on campus, you'll discover Harvard College’s many unique traditions. Some are as old as the College and others are much more recent—but they all play an important role in the life of Harvard College students. Through experiences such as Housing Day, YardFest, and the First-Year Formal, students are immersed in the rich history of the College and experience how it informs campus life today. The Game Since 1875, the Harvard Crimson and the Yale Bulldogs have faced off in an event simply known as "The Game." It's more than just a football game—this is a rivalry that stays with Harvard students throughout their lives. Learn more about The Game Arts At Harvard, students are encouraged to explore their interests and embrace the subjects they are passionate about. The College has many traditions and festivities that celebrate the arts and the diverse communities that foster them. Every spring, the college hosts traditional concerts, festivals, and performances that allow students to discover and enjoy the varying art forms that the Harvard Community has to offer. Cultural Rhythms Cultural Rhythms is a celebration of Harvard's rich cultural, ethnic, and religious diversity. This annual festival showcases performances by students from over 30 student organizations. Each year at the event, Harvard Foundation presents its "Artist of the Year" award. Past recipients have included Solange Knowles, Viola Davis, Lucy Liu, and Shakira. Cultural Rythmns is hosted by the Harvard Foundation for Intercultural and Race Relations. Yardfest Yardfest is one of the most anticipated events of spring semester. This all-day celebration includes student-led opening acts and a barbecue in the yard. The day's highlight is a performance by two celebrity guest artists. From hip hop and country music to Latinx and pop, Yardfest brings amazing variety and talent to Harvard. ARTSFirst ARTSFirst is an annual celebration of creation. The four-day event features performances, exhibitions, and opportunities to make art. Whether you're interested in opera or stand-up, poetry or performance art, you'll find something that inspires you at ARTSFirst. Groups Global Day of Service During the First-Year Global Day of Service, students learn about the important role service plays in the Harvard experience. More about the Global Day of Service Houses Each Harvard house enjoys its own unique traditions. And while these activities are steeped in history, new traditions are regularly introduced and adopted. From the annual celebration of International Polar Bear Day at Pforzheimer House (in which, among other things, they "adopt" a real polar bear in the wild) to the much-anticipated Lowell Tea, students enthusiastically embrace their House traditions. Housing Day The week before Spring Break, first-years learn their assignments for housing for following years. One of the most notable traditions at Harvard, Housing Day is sure to be a highlight of your first-year experience. Visitas Each year, Harvard admitted students are invited to come spend a few days on campus. During Visitas, admitted students stay in first-year dorms and eat in the dining halls. They also take part in events, attend classes, and meet others who are considering Harvard. Visitas is a great way to experience life at Harvard. Commencement Commencement is one of Harvard's oldest and most cherished traditions. At Commencement, graduating Harvard College seniors are awarded their diplomas. They celebrate their accomplishments with their families, friends, and mentors. The event includes a procession, diploma-awarding ceremonies, and featured speakers. While Commencement is a University-wide event, Harvard students receive their diplomas at their Houses. Learn more about Commencement Related Stories Visitas Rundown Author: Noah Cominsky Class of '20  Harvard-Yale: HYsteria 2018 Author:  From First-Year Opening Days to Junior Family Weekend Author: Maria De Leon Class of '20  View all student stories Related Topics Academics Small classes, fascinating course topics, personalized degree programs, and unsurpassed research opportunities across a diverse field of subjects.  Residential Life Residential Life at Harvard provides the opportunity to develop your own community through shared experiences.  College Offices Harvard College offices provide support and help students to navigate everything from academics to student billing.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Skip to site header Skip to main content