Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More Sites Public Affairs Government and Community Relations University Communications Coral Gables Residents Newsletter Contact Us Coral Gables Residents Newsletter Contact Us Search Coral Gables Residents Newsletter Contact Us Home AAA WELCOME Welcome to CollegeTown, Your ‘Cane Community. We invite you to enjoy our many programs that offer the best of our academic, cultural and athletic contributions. UM is home to concert halls and a basketball arena, a movie cinema and the oldest collecting museum in Florida, the Lowe Art Gallery. And of course, we are the home to the Miami Hurricanes! Our open green spaces are for the community’s enjoyment as well. Many of our programs are free and open to the public. Coral Gables Residents Find out about upcoming events and offerings designed especially for our Coral Gables neighbors. This special programming is part of our Development Agreement with the City. Coral Gables Residents UM Presents Join us for an alluring array of music, theatre, film, and visual arts at the University of Miami, where arts and culture shine! UM Presents Health and Wellness Staying well is important. Fitness programs and the award-winning Lennar Medical Center are located just at your doorstep. Lennar Foundation Medical Center, Coral Gables Herbert Wellness Center Public Sculpture Program Public art gives voice to human creativity while also beautifying our surroundings. UM is proud to host a vibrant sculpture park, with more than two dozen pieces by respected artists from around the world. Public Sculpture Program CollegeTown ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College Town 6200 San Amaro Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 Resources Media Requests Creative Services Requests Web Service Requests Visual Identity Guide Public Affairs Public Affairs University Communications Government and Community Relations News and Events Web and Digital More at UM University of Miami Office of the President Board of Trustees Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices