Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College Class Attendance Breadcrumb Home Design Your Education Academic Policies Sub Navigation In This Section Academic Code Academic Standing Advanced Placement Examinations Advanced Standing Class Attendance Leavetaking Class Attendance Course instructors have the authority to establish attendance policies for their courses. Such policies are usually published in course syllabi. You are advised to read your course syllabi carefully at the beginning of the semester to inform yourself of your instructors' expectations regarding attendance, participation and required assignments. Any questions should be asked at the beginning of the term. Visitors to Brown Classes Attending classes is generally restricted to Brown students or officially enrolled non-degree students who are registered participants. A student who has requested and been granted the instructor's permission for "vagabond" status in a course is an exception. With permission or an invitation from the instructor, a visitor may attend class with a Brown affiliate, a current student or a faculty member. Any other visitors to the campus who would like to sit in on a class must register with the Office of Admissions in advance and seek permission from the individual instructor. This permission will be granted at the discretion of the instructor. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Class Attendance Open details for Class Attendance Bookmark this Page