Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Enrichment / Student Leadership Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Newcomb-Tulane College offers a wealth of opportunities to gain leadership skills and work in meaningful positions within the College. Student Internships Most units within the College provide paid internship opportunities to students with a variety of interests and abilities. Academic Programs, Marketing & Communications, Advising and Career, the Center for Global Education and more. TIDES Peer Mentors This program allows upper-class students to serve as mentors to first-year students in a classroom setting. They play a crucial role in helping first-year students transition to the academic and social communities on campus. Tutoring and Supplemental Instruction Peer educators are students that excel academically and foster success outside the classroom by providing academic support to their peers. Peer Success Leaders PSLs are students whose role is to provide support and encouragement to their peers as they navigate the challenges associated with college. Honors Undergraduate Teaching Fellows Undergraduate Teaching Fellows are Honors students who serve as teaching assistants to faculty members teaching the required Colloquium 1030 course, "The Quest for Answers." In these positions, these students are able to offer valuable guidance and perspectives to the instructors and to the first-year students, having taken the Colloquium during their freshman coursework. Conversation Partner Program The Conversation Partner Program pairs an international student with an American student or fluent English speaker to allow them to practice their English in casual, conversational setting and to help them adjust to life here at Tulane. Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University