Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Academics Academics Academics is the core of the university experience and Newcomb-Tulane's mission. We provide a top tier education to our students through the core curriculum and choice of major - or interdisciplinary combination of majors. There are opportunities for students to explore areas of study, research, cultures – creating a flexible educational experience for all students. NTC strives to foster an inclusive environment and encourage the diversification of our community while we integrate conversations into the academic experience that allow students to learn from one another’s differences. Core Curriculum NTC’s general education curriculum was designed to develop information literacy, critical thinking, and personal and social responsibility. Majors and Schools NTC gives students the opportunity to explore classes and majors across schools. Awards, Honors & Dean's List We take pride in celebrating the achievements of our students. Academic Integrity All students and faculty at the university are expected to abide by basic principles of academic integrity - the Code of Academic Conduct. College Scholars Honors Program Honors provides academically gifted and intellectually curious students unique opportunities for exploration and immersion. ROTC ROTC (Air Force, Army, Marines and Navy) teaches leadership and military skills in addition to an undergraduate degree. Summer School Take classes over the summer semester to get ahead of your coursework or catch up. Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University