Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College U.S. Study Opportunities Students at Brown have varied opportunities to study at other U.S. colleges and universities — both around the country and close to campus. Breadcrumb Home Learn Beyond the Classroom U.S. Study Opportunities Students at Brown have varied opportunities to study at other U.S. colleges and universities — both around the country and close to campus. Brown students have the chance to participate in several domestic exchange and cross-registration programs. Cross-registration programs run in conjunction with Rhode Island School of Design (RISD), Wheaton, and other schools in the greater Rhode Island area allow students to take courses in subjects unavailable at Brown. The Brown-Tougaloo Exchange program gives Brown students the chance to immerse themselves in the culture and academic life of another campus for a full term. Study Away From Brown Brown offers undergraduate students the opportunity to apply for study elsewhere full-time (after a semester of study at Brown) and earn up to a semester’s equivalent of course credits and advanced standing when needed toward degree requirements. Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Program Brown's connection with Tougaloo College, an historically black college in Jackson, Mississippi, began in 1964, when activists from Brown traveled to Jackson to help in the struggle for civil rights. Since then, the two schools have developed a number of programs designed to expand educational and service opportunities for Brown and Tougaloo students, faculty, and staff, including a semester-long student exchange program. Rhode Island Language Consortium Students currently enrolled in an undergraduate degree program at one of Rhode Island’s private institutions of higher education are eligible to enroll in foreign language courses at any of the consortium schools that are not offered at their home institution. RISD Cross-Registration Brown's cross-registration agreement with RISD offers all Brown students the option of taking studio art courses at the renowned Rhode Island School of Design (RISD), adjacent to Brown on College Hill. Wheaton College Cross-Registration Wheaton College is a small liberal arts college located in Norton, Massachusetts, approximately 20 miles from Brown. A cross-registration agreement allows Brown students to take courses at Wheaton that may not be available at Brown, such as a greater array of courses in elementary and secondary education. Brown in Washington Program The Brown in Washington Fellowship offers students a semester in Washington, D.C. during their junior or senior year, where they intern with an agency in the public or nonprofit sector, and complete coursework and develop future opportunities. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search U.S. Study Opportunities Open details for U.S. Study Opportunities Bookmark this Page