Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Video description: Student walking up the steps of Widener Breadcrumb Admissions Apply On this page Overview How to Apply Application Tips What We Look For Timeline U.S. Military Veterans International Applicants Overview We consider each application with care. When reading an application, we get to know the person behind the numbers. We take into consideration your academic achievements, extracurricular activities, personal qualities, and life experiences. Just as there is no typical Harvard student, there is no ideal Harvard applicant. We look forward to learning more about you. Frequently asked questions about applying Are there secondary school course requirements for admission? There is no single academic path we expect all students to follow, but the strongest applicants take the most rigorous secondary school curricula available to them. An ideal four-year preparatory program includes four years of English, with extensive practice in writing; four years of math*; four years of science: biology, chemistry, physics, and an advanced course in one of these subjects; three years of history, including American and European history; and four years of one foreign language. *Applicants to Harvard should excel in a challenging high school math sequence corresponding to their educational interests and aspirations. Rigorous and relevant data science, computer science, statistics, mathematical modeling, calculus, and other advanced math classes are given equal consideration in the application process. Specifically, calculus is neither a requirement nor a preference for admission to Harvard. We understand that many students have no intention to pursue college coursework that requires a knowledge of calculus, and that other students are unsure of their future college studies. We also understand that not all students have the same opportunities to take certain math classes in high school, including calculus. Thus, we encourage applicants to pursue the pathways through math that are available to them and aligned with their interests and goals. Students intending to study engineering, computer science, physics, or other fields for which a knowledge of calculus is required may benefit from taking calculus in high school. However, applicants who have not taken calculus in high school can still pursue such fields of study here by starting with one of Harvard’s introductory calculus classes that has no high school calculus prerequisite. It is our hope that high schools offer a selection of math courses that focuses on conceptual understanding, promotes higher-order thinking, and encourages students to use mathematical reasoning to critically examine the world. We recognize that the traditional pathway to calculus is not the only way, or even the best way, to achieve this goal. Therefore, we encourage high schools, counselors, teachers, and students to explore other pathways through mathematics that will best support student learning, growth, and success. Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? We are committed to making the application process accessible for all students. If the admissions application fee presents a hardship for you or your family, the fee will be waived. Please follow the steps below to request a fee waiver: Common Application Select “Yes” when asked “Do you feel that your financial circumstances might qualify you for an application fee waiver?” Confirm that you meet at least one of the indicators of economic need. If you do not meet one of the indicators of economic need, select “You can provide a supporting statement from a school official, college access counselor, financial aid officer, or community leader.” Harvard will not ask you to provide a supporting statement and your application will not be penalized if you select this option. Coalition Application Confirm that you meet at least one of the indicators of economic need listed in the Fee Waiver section of your Profile. If you do not meet one of the indicators of economic need, you may enter the Harvard-specific fee waiver code on the payment page: JH3S5Q2LX9 Transfer Applicants Please see the Transfer Application Requirements for information about requesting a transfer application fee waiver. How to Apply For all first-year and transfer applicants, your first step will be to fill out and submit an application. You can do so through the Common Application or the Coalition Application. We have no preference and each application is treated equally by the Admissions Committee. For a detailed guide to the application process, please read our application tips. First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Visiting Undergraduate Students User Icon Application Tips Get step-by-step tips on filling out your college application. From the application fee waiver to the writing supplement, we've gathered some tips to help you complete your application. View our application tips What We Look For We seek students who will contribute to our community—and to society throughout their lives.  Academic achievement is important, but it's only part of what we consider when making decisions. We look for applicants who are curious, determined, and creative. We take into account special talents or successes that might not appear on a transcript. We appreciate unique perspectives formed by personal circumstances. These qualities help prepare students to make the most of their education. Learn more about what we look for Timeline Timeline We encourage you to start planning for your college applications as early as possible. For many students, this means beginning the process during the spring of Junior year in high school. Starting early will help to ease any stress that might arise later in the process. Quick Links First-Year Application Timeline Transfer Application Timeline Visiting Undergraduate Students Timeline Preparing for College Admissions Deadlines November 1 The deadline to apply for Restrictive Early Action admission is November 1. Learn more about Restrictive Early Action. January 1 Regular Decision application deadline. Please submit all application materials by January 1st for Regular Decision consideration. First-Year Application Timeline U.S. Military Veterans Individuals who have served in the U.S. military bring valuable perspectives to our community and we welcome applications from veterans for both first-year and transfer admission. If you are a veteran, please review the information on our U.S. Military Veterans page. There, you'll find details on whether to apply as a first-year or transfer student, financial aid, and making the transition to college life. U.S. Military Veterans Tour International Applicants We welcome applications from all over the world. Our admissions and financial aid processes are the same for all applicants - regardless of nationality or citizenship. Learn more about international admissions Related Topics First-Year Applicants Here's everything you need to know about applying to Harvard College as a first-year applicant.  Transfer Applicants Students who have completed at least one but not more than two continuous academic years in a full-time program may apply to transfer to Harvard.  Visiting Undergraduate Students The Visiting Undergraduate Students (VUS) Program welcomes students enrolled in colleges around the world to spend a semester or year at Harvard.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Skip to site header Skip to main content