Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb About Campus Campus Updates On this page Overview Academics and Residential Life International Students Athletics Admissions Overview COVID-19 Information Academic Year 2021-2022: Harvard College has returned to campus-based teaching and research. Our ways of coming together to advance our mission will necessarily be shaped by all that we have learned and experienced over the past year. And thanks to the efforts and insights of the FAS community, we are well prepared to take this next step. Read more at Keep FAS Healthy - COVID-19 Updates and Resources for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Visiting Campus We are pleased to offer a number of ways for you to connect with Harvard, including both virtual and on-campus opportunities. We hope the following information helps you explore Harvard. The Admissions & Financial Aid Office is again hosting on-campus visits, which consist of a one-hour admissions-led information session, followed by a one-hour tour guided by current undergraduate students. Click here for a self-guided campus tour map. Please keep in mind that many buildings may be closed to the public. Take the virtual tour. Student guides lead you through the places they live and learn, including dorm rooms, classrooms, Widener Library, the first-year dining hall and more. You are invited to learn more about Harvard College by attending an admissions-led online information sessions. Academics and Residential Life All undergraduate course instruction this academic year, including sections, will be carried out in the classroom. The experience of the past year has demonstrated that technology can be a powerful pedagogical tool and instructors may use some pre-recorded materials to supplement their in-person teaching. However, they should plan to spend the customary amount of time in the classroom. Instructors may hold office hours online if they feel this will better meet the needs of their students. Undergraduate students have resumed living in residence halls. All members of the residential community uphold a shared obligation and commitment to act prudently, safely, and in accordance with public health directives. Learn more on the Dean of Students Office website. Student Stories Back on Campus after a Year and a Half Author: Harpreet Singh Class of '22  Dining at Harvard Author: Carter Martindale Class of '23  My Favorite Study Spaces on Campus Author: Kathleen Bellon Pizarro Class of '24  View all Student Stories International Students International students may learn more about visa or immigration-related topics through the Harvard International Office and academic or social support through the Office of International Education. Athletics Harvard Athletics is committed to providing a safe environment for our student-athletes, fans, and staff. Under the guidance of Harvard University and our local health department, Harvard Athletics contests will return for the 2021-22 seasons. Please check gocrimson.com for the most up-to-date spectator policies. Learn more about guidelines Admissions For first-year applicants to the College Classes of 2027-2030, please read our latest statement about considerations for the admission application which includes information about standardized testing, our whole person review, and more. To learn more about Harvard, you can schedule a campus visit (information session + tour), attend an online information sessions, and take a virtual tour. Admissions for the Classes of 2027-2030 FAQs for admitted and incoming students Campus Harvard College Calendar The Harvard College events calendar is a centralized resource for undergraduates. Visit the Calendar Related Topics Dean Rakesh Khurana As the Danoff Dean of Harvard College, Rakesh Khurana cares deeply about the personal and academic success of all students. Learn more about the Dean.  College Offices Harvard College offices provide support and help students to navigate everything from academics to student billing.  Diversity & Inclusion Our community is strengthened by the varied perspectives, interests, and identities of its members. Learn about how we support and promote diversity.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle About Submenu About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Skip to site header Skip to main content