Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Meet Our Students David Johnson Aboge Class of '25 Hello everyone! My name is David Johnson Aboge and I am a first-year student living in Weld from Kisumu, a city by Lake Victoria in Kenya. I intend to concentrate in Applied Mathematics, with a secondary in Global Health & Health Policy, and earn a language citation in Arabic. Student Profile Aisha Abdelhamid Class of '23 Hey y'all! My name is Aisha and I am an Egyptian from Long Island, NY. I am currently a junior in Leverett House, concentrating in Sociology with a secondary in Educational Studies and a citation in Arabic. Student Profile Christine Maina Class of '24 Hi everyone! My name is Christine Maina and I am second-year student living originally from Burnsville, MN (a suburb of Minneapolis). I am concentrating in Economics with a secondary in Government, and live in Winthrop House. Student Profile Ada Cruz Class of '24 Piyali! My name is Ada, and I'm a sophomore from Naples, Florida. Student Profile Ashley Gong Class of '25 Hi everyone! My name is Ashley, and I am a freshman living in Wigglesworth Hall. I plan on studying Classics and Computer Science, and on campus, I play oboe for the Harvard-Radcliffe Orchestra and am involved with the Harvard Open Data Project. Student Profile Hana Rehman Class of '25 Hi! My name is Hana, and I am a first-year intending to concentrate in Economics and Government, from Milton, Ontario, Canada. Student Profile Hudson Miller Class of '23 Hey everyone! My name is Hudson Miller, and I am a junior at Harvard College studying economics. I am originally from Arlington, Texas and after graduating from a small private school in Fort Worth, Texas, I took some college classes but decided I wanted to join the Marine Corps. Student Profile Ashley Emann Class of '23 Hi Everyone! My name is Ashley Emann and I am a junior concentrating in Chemistry with a secondary in Mind, Brain, and Behavior. Before finding myself at Harvard, I spent four years in the Marine Corps stationed at Miramar, San Diego with a Military Occupation Specialty of Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Defense. Student Profile Ana Barba Class of '25 Hi there! My name is Anapaula, and I am a first-year from South Texas currently living in Canaday Hall. I’m studying Computer Science and have enjoyed attending events hosted by the Women in Computer Science organization. I Student Profile Raymond Zheng Class of '25 Hey everyone! My name is Raymond, and I’m a first-year from the Greater Pittsburgh Area. I’m living in Massachusetts Hall, and I’m planning to concentrate in Molecular and Cellular Biology with a possible secondary in Psychology. I Student Profile Maryam Guerrab Class of '25 Hey y'all! My name is Maryam Guerrab and I'm a first-year student living in Thayer. I'm interested in studying Government, Data Science, and Economics, with a citation in Arabic. I'm a first-generation, low-income student originally from Raleigh, North Carolina! Student Profile Inno Munai Class of '25 Kamwene! My name is Innocent (Inno) Munai, and I am a first-year student at Harvard College thinking of concentrating in Mathematics, or Computer Science, or both! I hail from Iringa, Tanzania, where I grew up in a village called Ilula, lying south of the Great Ruaha River. What I wrote up there in italics is my Kihehe (native language) salutation translating to "Greetings!". Student Profile Isabella Madrigal Class of '24 Hello! My name is Isabella Madrigal. I’m a sophomore in Adams House, but I’m originally from Temecula, CA. I’m concentrating in English on a premedical track so feel free to ask me any questions about balancing two (seemingly) very different fields of study! Student Profile Gloria Maldonado Class of '24 Hello! My name is Gloria Natalie Maldonado. I am a sophomore living in Winthrop house. I am studying Social Studies and Romance Languages with an emphasis on Spanish Literature. I grew up on the outskirts of Chicago, embracing my Latine heritage and community organizing. Student Profile Angelica Carrillo Class of '24 Hi there! My name is Angelica Carrillo and I’m a sophomore in Eliot House. I’m concentrating in Neurobiology with a secondary in Ethnicity, Migration, and Rights. I am also on a premedical track. I am originally from Odessa, Texas which is a small town in West Texas. Student Profile Nia Burch Class of '24 Hi y’all! My name is Nia Burch, and I am a sophomore in Cabot House concentrating in Government with a secondary (aka minor) in Economics. I am from the wonderful city of Houston, Texas, but I grew up in a military family and spent a lot of time in Southern California and the D.C., Maryland, and Virginia area (DMV). Student Profile Imaan Mirza Class of '25 Hi friends! My name is Imaan Mirza (she/her), and I’m a first-year at the College living in Thayer Hall. My family is from Lahore, Pakistan, but I grew up in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. I now call the lovely Midwestern suburbs of Fishers, Indiana, home. I hope to study Government or History, but I’m still very undecided! Student Profile Sophie Kim Class of '24 Hi everyone! I’m Sophie Kim and I’m a sophomore in Lowell House. I’m originally from Los Angeles, CA, and I served as the 2018 Los Angeles County Youth Poet Laureate. Student Profile Judy Durkin Class of '22 Hey everyone! My name is Judy Durkin (she/her), and I am a senior from Santa Monica, CA. Student Profile Denzel Ekes Class of '24 Hey everyone! My name is Denzel Ekes and I’m a current sophomore from Boston, Massachusetts who is living in Currier House. I’m planning to declare (or maybe have already declared by the time you’re reading this) as a Mechanical Engineering concentrator with a secondary in Astronomy. Student Profile Kathleen Bellon Pizarro Class of '24 Hello! My name is Kathleen Bellon Pizarro, and I’m a sophomore concentrating in Molecular and Cellular Biology on the pre-med track. I’m currently living in Mather House (the best house!), but I’ve spent time growing up in both Montana and Texas over the years. Student Profile Emily Ramirez Class of '24 Howdy, y’all! My name is Emily Ramirez, and I’m a sophomore concentrating in Sociology with a secondary in Ethnicity, Migration, and Rights. I was born and raised in Houston, TX, but my parents are both from Mexico. Student Profile Nadya Nfaoui Class of '22 Hi! My name is Nadya Nfaoui and I am a Senior concentrating in the History of Science on the Mind Brain and Behavior Track with a citation in Spanish, living in Mather House. Student Profile Madi Fabber Class of '22 Hi y’all! My name is Madi, and I’m a senior in Winthrop House studying English; Theater, Dance, & Media; and Folklore & Mythology. Student Profile Choetsow Tenzin Class of '23 Hey y’all! My name is Choetsow Tenzin and I am a Junior living in Lowell House. I am originally from Charlottesville, Virginia – so wahoowa! Student Profile Emily Launderville Class of '24 Hi everyone! My name is Emily, and I am a sophomore at Harvard planning on concentrating in geosciences and philosophy. Student Profile Mayowa Jolayemi Class of '23 Hi everyone! My name is Mayowa Jolayemi and I’m a junior in Currier House from Los Angeles, California, concentrating in Economics with a secondary in Computer Science or Psychology. Student Profile Perrin Price Class of '23 Hi there! My name is Perrin Price and I am a junior in Adams House concentrating in Applied Mathematics and pursuing a secondary in Music. Student Profile Jadyn Matthews Class of '24 Hello! My name is Jadyn Matthews, and I am from Chattanooga, TN. I am planning on concentrating in Cognitive Neuroscience and Evolutionary Psychology and am also on the pre-medicine track. Student Profile Tyler Morris Class of '22 Hey y'all! My name is Tyler Morris. I'm a senior from rural Alabama pursuing a joint concentration in Molecular & Cellular Biology and Linguistics with a Secondary in Spanish. Student Profile Andrea Liu Class of '23 Hi! My name is Andrea, and I am a sophomore studying Psychology and Computer Science. Student Profile Carter Martindale Class of '23 Hello! My name is Carter Martindale, I'm a junior in Quincy House studying Government with a secondary in Russian studies. Student Profile Ope Falako Class of '22 Hi there! My name is Opeoluwa Falako, but I usually go by Ope. I am a senior in Eliot House, and I hail from Saint Louis, MO. I'm studying Molecular and Cellular Biology with a secondary (our word for minor) in African American Studies. Student Profile Artha Jonassaint Class of '24 Hey, y’all! My name is Artha Jonassaint and I am a sophomore from Okeechobee, Florida. I study Government and Global Health/Health Policy at the College and hope to eventually attend law school. Student Profile Kalos Chu Class of '23 Hello! My name is Kalos, and I am a junior living in Dunster House and studying English with a secondary in Film and Video. Student Profile Olga Kiyan Class of '22 Hey y’all! My name is Olga Kiyan, and I am a senior studying Economics with a secondary in Government as well as pursuing a citation in Russian. I am from right outside of Fort Lauderdale, FL, but on campus I live in Winthrop House. Student Profile Jania Tumey Class of '23 Hi everyone! My name is Jania Tumey and I’m a junior in Winthrop House concentrating in Human Evolutionary Biology on the Mind, Brain, Behavior track. I'm also pursuing a secondary in Economics and a language citation in Spanish. Student Profile Evelyn Manyatta Class of '22 Hello! My name is Evelyn Manyatta, and I am a Senior living in Eliot House. I was born and raised in the beautiful city of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania and I am an Economics Concentrator with a secondary in Computer Science. Student Profile Nadine Bahour Class of '22 Hi there! My name is Nadine, and I come to campus from Ramallah, Palestine. I live in Leverett House and am considering a concentration in Neuroscience. Student Profile Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you.