Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Admissions Apply U.S. Military Veterans On this page Overview How to Apply Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Overview Applying to Harvard After Your Service Individuals who have served in the U.S. military bring valuable perspectives to our community and we welcome applications from veterans for both first-year and transfer admission. We consider high academic standards, leadership in non-academic areas, and personal qualities in all of our admission decisions. However, the many and unique experiences which constitute military service at all levels usually become an important part of a veteran’s application. How to Apply The first thing you will need to determine is your eligibility to apply either as a first-year or transfer student. If you have not completed a full year of college course work, you can apply as a first-year student. If you have completed more than one year’s worth of college courses, but less than two years in total, you can apply as a transfer student. Please note that if you have more than two years of college course work, you are not eligible for admission to Harvard College. Also, please note that military training courses do not count for entrance either as a first-year or transfer student. We encourage all U.S. military veterans to review our application requirements. If you have specific questions, please contact us; we are here to help. It's also worth noting that Harvard is a member of Service to School’s VetLink program, which provides advising and support to veterans throughout the college application process. Don't let the application fee prevent you from applying - we automatically waive the application fee for ALL U.S. military veteran applicants. From the service to school Veteran transfer students from community colleges make Harvard home Read the full story on the Gazette Financial Aid Harvard College participates in the Yellow Ribbon Program. Veterans typically receive benefits through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, in addition to the Post 9/11 GI Bill® programs. Harvard’s generous need-based financial aid program may supplement or even replace the use of veteran’s benefits toward the total cost of attendance. We will also waive the application fee if it presents a hardship on you or your family. Don’t let the cost stand in the way of pursuing a Harvard education. Learn more about how financial aid works Calculator Calculate Your Estimated Scholarship Use our Net Price Calculator to get a quick estimate of how much Harvard will really cost you. Net Price Calculator Frequently Asked Questions We've compiled a list of frequently asked questions specifically for prospective students who have U.S. Military experience. We also recommend visiting the Harvard Undergraduate Veterans Organization website to learn more. If you can't find an answer to your question, don't hesitate to contact us. We're here to help. Veteran FAQs Is there a separate or different admissions process for military veterans? There is no separate or different admissions process for applicants who are or will be veterans. Applicants with less than one year of college credit may apply as first-year students and those with between one and two years of college credit may apply as transfer students. Please visit the U.S. Military Veterans page to learn more about admissions and financial aid. I am a US military veteran. Should I apply as a first-year or transfer student? To be eligible to transfer to Harvard College, you must have satisfactorily completed at least one continuous academic year in a full-time degree program at one college by your anticipated date of matriculation at Harvard, and not have completed more than two years total in college. Please note that once a student has completed more than two years of college coursework at another institution, regardless of the courses taken, that student is no longer eligible for transfer admission or freshman admission. Our office cannot make exceptions to this policy as it is set by the Harvard faculty. If you do not meet the above requirements and have not yet completed one continuous academic year in a full-time degree program at one college, then you may apply for freshman admission to Harvard College. Please note that if you are eligible to apply as a freshman that any college coursework you have completed would not transfer to Harvard College. I have never taken the SAT or ACT, or I have not taken the SAT or ACT in recent years and cannot because I’ve been on active duty, what do I do? Standardized tests are not required components of the application for the College Classes of 2027-2030. You may choose, however, to report standardized test results you received earlier in your career as part of your application. If you choose to report standardized tests, it would be helpful to the Admissions Committee to have the most recent scores you can provide. Can veterans receive financial aid? Are there any specific financial aid programs for veterans? You are eligible to apply for financial aid. However, there are no Harvard financial aid programs specifically designed for veterans. We have a generous need-based financial aid program, and all first-year and transfer students applying to Harvard may also apply for financial aid. Please visit the Applying for Aid page for an overview of our program. Eligible veterans may also consider using VA Benefits; helpful information can be found at http://sfs.harvard.edu/veteran-military-benefits. Is Harvard a Yellow Ribbon school? Yes. Harvard University is proud to help veterans continue their educations by participating in the Yellow Ribbon Program. As a part of the University, the Harvard College Financial Aid Office administers Yellow Ribbon Funds for its eligible undergraduate students. The aid provided by the government is treated like all outside awards, and students receive a matching amount from the College. Does Harvard have any student groups or alumni groups for veterans? Yes, Harvard College offers both student and alumni groups for veterans. Please visit the Harvard Undergraduate Veterans Organization for information about our student group and Harvard Veterans for information about our alumni group. Do students who are veterans have to live on campus? No, while Harvard College is predominantly residential, some students do not live in College housing. Undergraduates living off campus may elect to be members of Dudley House. This option has appealed to a number of students, including married students and students who wish to be part of a fully non-residential community. Students who are part of Dudley House are eligible for meal contracts in Dudley House and are included in all social and cultural activities sponsored by the House. They are "deaned" by the Allston Burr Resident Dean of Dudley House and are advised for purposes of fellowship and professional school application by Dudley House tutors. Does Harvard accept credit earned from classes taken during my time in the military? Admitted transfer students may be eligible to transfer up to a maximum of sixteen course credits. The transfer admissions team is not able to tell applicants which courses will be eligible for transfer credit during the application process. The Faculty of Arts and Sciences Registrar’s Office evaluates transcripts for all admitted transfer students to determine course transferability once a student has been admitted. College courses similar to those available to Harvard undergraduates are likely transferable. Online courses are generally not eligible for transfer credit. Exceptions are rare and are made at the discretion of the Registrar’s Office. As a military veteran, my high school grades do not reflect my current work ethic and commitment to my studies. How does this impact my application? We consider an applicant’s full range of experiences and growth from those experiences, especially for veterans. A weak high school transcript does not necessarily mean you will not be a compelling candidate for Harvard. Look at your high school transcript with a critical eye, identify what your weaknesses in the classroom might have been and think about what you have done since that time to address those weaknesses. Be prepared to explain any steps you have taken to improve. I have been away from school for a while during my military service. Do I still need to submit letters of recommendation? We fully understand that high school teachers may not remember you or still be at your school. We normally suggest that you get a similar set of letters from people who know you well in your current phase of life, such as commanding officers or other professors/instructors (if you have pursued any coursework since high school). Helpful letters might address how you dealt with adversity, stress, or other challenges, how you got along with your peers and how you have maximized opportunities available to you – all critical components to success at Harvard and beyond. How can I interview if I am unable to leave my military base or am deployed at sea? Interviews are not required for admission. If you are contacted for an interview and are not able to leave base, please call our office (617-495-1551) so that we may assist. If you are applying as a transfer student, please know that interviews are not routinely offered to transfer applicants. In cases where it is difficult to reach an applicant we may request a phone or Skype interview. Is it possible to enroll at Harvard College and complete my coursework remotely while remaining on active duty? Harvard College does not presently offer an option to work toward a degree remotely. Harvard Extension School offers more flexible options for students seeking opportunities to study remotely. Learn more about the Extension School's undergraduate degrees. Learn More About Harvard Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch. Sign Up Related Topics First-Year Applicants Here's everything you need to know about applying to Harvard College as a first-year applicant.  Transfer Applicants Students who have completed at least one but not more than two continuous academic years in a full-time program may apply to transfer to Harvard.  Application Requirements Here you'll find a detailed explanation of each requirement of the application, including teacher recommendations, test scores, and school reports.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Skip to site header Skip to main content