Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Video description: Students socializing in dorm Breadcrumb Life at Harvard Residential Life On this page Overview First-Year Students Upper-Level Students House Renewal Cambridge & Boston Overview Home at Harvard At Harvard, you'll meet friends in expansive libraries and historic classrooms. You'll uncover cozy reading nooks, stumble across sun-kissed lawns, and discover the joys and frustrations of roommates and late-night study sessions. As you grow more familiar with the faces and places around you, you'll begin to recognize something else: a feeling of belonging. Make yourself at home. First-Year Students Life in the Yard First-year students live in dorms with shared suites adjacent to Harvard Yard and eat the majority of meals in Annenberg Hall. This is a place of far-ranging conversations where you'll get to know fellow new students. In addition, you'll engage with your peers during the many activities designed for first-year students. First-Year Living First-Year Living Our Dean of Students Office arranges first-year dormitory assignments. We place first-years in suites with other first-year students, allowing for plenty of opportunities to socialize and bond. Dormitories have a wide variety of rooming arrangements that range from doubles to larger suites. Some have their own bathrooms, but most students share a bathroom with other suites. There are very few singles available. Entryways and Yards In addition to having suitemates, each first-year is part of a group called an entryway, which consists of of 20 to 40 students who share a floor or section within their dormitory. A first-year proctor lives in each entryway, who will provide academic, personal, and social guidance, as well as plan events and activities. Each entryway is part of one of four Yards; these nested communities help to create a robust support network for new students. First-Year Experience Office The First-Year Experience Office (FYE) is responsible for all aspects of the first year at Harvard. Groups Dean of Students Office From student-led social events to campus-wide traditions, the Dean of Students Office is here to enhance your experience. Learn more about the Dean of Students Office Upper-Level Students A House Away from Home The House system is one of Harvard's best known traditions. At the end of your first year, you'll be placed into one of Harvard's 12 Houses. Each House accommodates between 350 and 500 students, and helps create a close-knit community within the broader University. Upper-Level Students Learn more about the 12 Houses Groups Dining Meals are the backdrop to some of the College's most rewarding experiences: sharing stories, debating ideas, forming friendships. Learn more about undergraduate dining House Renewal House Renewal Harvard’s House system is one of the most unique features of our undergraduate experience. Ensuring its excellence and vitality in the 21st century is critical to our educational philosophy. Harvard is undertaking a major renewal of the Houses creating a home where students can bring together their academic, social, and personal passions and pursuits. Harvard is far along on this program with the 6th House (out of 12) now in renewal. Quick Links About House Renewal The Houses Watch the video about Winthrop House Renewal  Cambridge & Boston Boston and Cambridge combine New England charm with modern innovation, an impressive culinary scene, and youthful energy. We'll help you make the many opportunities that surround you a part of your residential experience. More about Cambridge & Boston Campus Related Stories First-Year Student Housing Explained Author: Nadine Bahour Class of '22  Finding Family: A Home away from Home Author: Braeden Foldenauer Class of '21  Ten Things I Love About Currier House Author:  View all student stories Learn More About Harvard Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch. Sign Up Related Topics Campus From our libraries to our museums, our support services to our common spaces, our campus is teeming with resources to guide your experience.  Student Activities Activities outside the classroom help you explore new interests, grow your talents, and make new friends.  Health & Wellbeing From fitness, to mental health, to peer support, Harvard has everything to keep you well. Read more about the health and wellness resources available.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Skip to site header Skip to main content