Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Advising on a Campus I'm Getting to Know Category Student Voices Author Emily Ramirez Class of '24 Authored on October 08, 2021 Share Share on Twitter Twitter Share on Facebook Facebook Article This semester, I began advising first-year students as a Peer Advising Fellow, or PAF! PAFs are part of the advising network for first-year students at Harvard, along with Proctors and academic advisors. Study Break! These are a few of the students in our entryway at our study break! Proctors are residential advisers who live in the first-year dorms, and along with PAFs they are in charge of creating a community in first-year “entryways.” These entryways are groups of 30-40 first-year students who live in the same section, floor, or entryway of a dorm building. PAFs hold weekly study breaks for the entryway with fun activities like trivia nights, food runs, and mini-olympics, among many other silly and fun events. Additionally, PAFs hold one-on-one check-ins with first-year students throughout the year. They take on an older sibling role at the College, and they can help answer questions about balancing workload, which extracurriculars to join, and even on social life! Getting to connect with first-year students reminds me of all there was to be excited about during my first year, from meeting new friends, to moving into my first-year dorm, to going to my first classes. Being a PAF has been such a rewarding experience so far! Getting to connect with first-year students reminds me of all there was to be excited about during my first year, from meeting new friends, to moving into my first-year dorm, to going to my first classes. As a PAF, it has also been exciting to see my PAFees begin to find their niche on campus and start to make friends. On a personal level, I also really like the mentorship aspect of PAFing. I love checking in with my PAFees and asking them about classes, how they’re balancing their workload, social life, and extracurriculars. I give them advice on how to navigate campus resources, give them reassurance as needed, and even tell them my best-kept secrets for dining in Harvard Square on a budget. I love mentoring, and being able to share advice for students who are coming into my learning and living environment is a great way to do this. One of the challenges in this new role, however, has been giving advice about a campus I am also still getting to know. I remember during the first few days of classes, my PAFees would ask me about a particular building or lecture hall, and I had to Google it with them. Beyond Harvard’s physical space, there are also elements of social life I am getting used to. Whereas the phenomenon known as Zoom fatigue was something I grew accustomed to and could manage, it seems that now I have the opposite problem! Getting used to face-to-face interaction again has been a learning experience I was not expecting. In these instances, it sometimes feels a little silly or embarrassing to admit that I don’t know everything, or that I am also (re)learning some elements of campus life. Nevertheless, I know my advice can be helpful and needed, and I am happy to learn along with my PAFees. Convcation Day! We have lots of ceremonies at Harvard, but this was my favorite! As I continue with my remaining three years at Harvard, I hope to continue PAFing in order to learn from first-year students, and hopefully give out advice that I have taken for myself. The PAF program is a big highlight of my Harvard experience, both as a first-year and now as a PAF. It proves that sometimes, hanging with freshmen can be cool. Shoutout to my 8 PAFees. You all are amazing and have blown me away with your talent, grit, and warmth. You make my job incredibly easy. Tags First-Year Residential Life Student Life Share Share on Twitter Twitter Share on Facebook Facebook Emily Ramirez Class of '24 Howdy, y’all! My name is Emily Ramirez, and I’m a sophomore concentrating in Sociology with a secondary in Ethnicity, Migration, and Rights. I was born and raised in Houston, TX, but my parents are both from Mexico. Student Profile Book Icon Next Story: A Love Letter to Living at Harvard Book Icon Student Voices Reflections on a Transformative Experience Author: Olga Kiyan Class of '22  My First-Year Residential Life Experience and Dorm Tour Author:  Ready for College? A Guide to Packing for Harvard Author: Raymond Zheng Class of '25  See more student stories Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you.