Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Support / Advising Advising Advising is a collaborative partnership that maximizes the individual potential of students by sharing information, tools, and resources that empower students to make informed decisions about creating appropriate academic and career plans to achieve their academic, career, and life goals. The most recent general education core curriculum is effective for students entering Tulane in Fall 2018 and after. The Newcomb-Tulane College core curriculum is designed to provide a common structure to undergraduate study while remaining flexible enough for students to explore and experiment with many academic fields. The core curriculum ensures that students attain basic competencies in writing, formal reasoning, foreign language, scientific inquiry, cultural knowledge and expression, and interdisciplinary scholarship. Core Curriculum Guide Checklist NTC Core Guide For students entering Tulane prior to Fall 2018: Use the Core Curriculum Guide to get a comprehensive explanation of each requirement. Use the Core Curriculum Grid to see individual school requirements side by side. Make an Appointment Academic Advising Pre-Health Advising Pre-Law Advising Athletic Career Advising Tutoring Business School Advising Information Deciding on a Major Declare a Major Schedule of Classes Academic Calendar Meet our Advisors Advising Website Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University