Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Academics / Awards, Honors and Dean's List Awards, Honors and Dean's List Dean's List Newcomb-Tulane College takes pride in celebrating the achievements of its students, and the Dean’s List is a time-honored tradition that marks a special milestone along the path to graduation. This honor, which recognizes superior academic achievement, is especially meaningful given the strength of our overall student body. Fall 2021 Dean's List Spring 2021 Dean's List Fall 2020 Dean's List Spring 2020 Dean's List Latin Honors All Latin honors at Tulane are awarded on the basis of GPA alone. Students achieving a GPA in the top 30% of the class will receive Latin honors according to the following: Summa cum laude = top 5% of the class Magna cum laude = next 10% of the class Cum laude = next 15% of the class The standards each year will be set based on the GPA of the previous graduating class. (August graduates will be recognized according to the standards set in the previous academic year; December graduates will be recognized according the standards of the academic year in progress.) For students graduating in December 2021 and May 2022, the GPA standards will be: Summa cum laude = 3.950 Magna cum laude = 3.850 Cum laude = 3.700 Beginning with the Class of 2022, Newcomb-Tulane College will award honor cords to students receiving Latin honors. Students must report on time to their diploma ceremony check-in to receive their cord. Summa cum laude: gold cord Magna cum laude: silver cord Cum laude: burgundy cord Spring 2021 Latin Honors Departmental Honors Students who complete Honors Theses will graduate with departmental honors in the major or majors in which they write the thesis, in addition to any Latin honors earned on the basis of GPA. Students earning departmental honors will receive green and blue double honor cords to wear with their Commencement regalia. Departmental honor cords will be distributed at the Senior Honors Thesis Reception the week of Commencement. Senior Awards Each May, Newcomb-Tulane College recognizes students who, by achieving academic excellence, embody the highest goals of the institution. Prizes are awarded by the appropriate departmental and college committees and are presented at a special Senior Awards Ceremony held during commencement weekend. William Wallace Peery Society The college’s top academic honor, the William Wallace Peery Medal for Academic Excellence, is bestowed on the Peery Society member who best exemplifies Dr. Peery’s educational philosophy, which stresses breadth and depth of learning and encourages students to work at the level of their greatest capacity. Students selected for this honor receive special white Peery Society stoles at the annual Senior Awards Ceremony, held in May during Commencement week. The Peery Medalist also receives a medal and a check for $1000. Read More Watch the 2021 Virtual Sr Awards Ceremony Awards A.B. Freeman School of Business The Evelyn and William Burkenroad Award- Established in 1997, this award recognizes excellence in academics, and is presented to the graduate of the Bachelor of Science in Management program with the highest cumulative GPA. The Dean’s Service Award- Established in 1991, this award recognizes graduating students who have, in the opinion of the administrative staff and the dean, added dimension to the school through outstanding contributions of time and effort. The Evelyn and William Burkenroad Award- Established in 1982, the Evelyn and William Burkenroad Award recognizes the graduating student in the Bachelor of Science in Management program who has an outstanding record of scholarship and personal integrity, and whose activities have contributed to the professional, social, and/or academic quality of the business program. The recipient is chosen by the senior class. The Tulane Association of Business Alumni Award- Established to recognize an outstanding graduate of the BSM program, this award is presented each year to the graduating senior who exhibits, in the opinion of the school’s administration, outstanding intellectual ability, leadership, self-motivation, and responsibility to peers, the school, and the community. The Tulane Association of Business Alumni Community Service Award- Established in 1993 by the Levy-Rosenblum Institute for Entrepreneurship and conducted in partnership with the Tulane Association of Business Alumni, this award recognizes those graduates who, under the auspices of the Institute and mentored by TABA members, have completed at least 25 hours of pro bono service with a disadvantaged business or a not-for-profit organization in the New Orleans area. The School of Architecture Alpha Rho Chi Medal American Institute of Architects Henry Adams Certificate- Similar to the AIA Henry Adams Medal, this certificate was established to honor the second highest ranking student within each School of Architecture nationwide. With many talented students and what sometimes is a mere hundredth of a point separating these GPAs, it is necessary to recognize these accomplishments. American Institute of Architects Henry Adams Medal- This medal is awarded annually to the top-ranking student from each accredited Architecture program. This award was established in 1914 to recognize academic excellence throughout the course of one’s architecture education. John William Lawrence Memorial Medal- The John William Lawrence Medal is an honor chosen by the School of Architecture faculty to recognize excellence in design. While highest cumulative Studio GPA was a baseline consideration for this honor, more important was evidence of a clear drive in the work that moves beyond grades. The School of Liberal Arts Africana Studies Felipe Smith Jr. Award for Excellence in Africana Studies The Department of Anthropology The Arden R. King Award for Excellence in Anthropology The Elizabeth S. Watts Award for Excellence in Physical Anthropology The Robert Wauchope Award for Excellence in Anthropology The Victoria Reifler Bricker Award for Excellence in Linguistics The Newcomb Department of Art The Alberta “Rusty” Collier Award for Outstanding Studio Art Major in 2-Dimensional Work The Alberta “Rusty” Collier Award for Outstanding Studio Art Major in 3-Dimensional Work Outstanding Art History Major Award The Sandra “Sandy” Chism Memorial Award in Painting Class of 1914 Prize in Art The Department of Classical Studies The Ernest Henry Riedel Classical Studies Prize The George H. Terriberry Classical Prize The Judah Touro Medal- The Judah Touro Medal (est. 1856) is awarded for excellence in Greek, Biblical Hebrew, Latin, or ancient history. The Department of Communication The Ashton Phelps Sr. Memorial Award The Glendy Burke Medal in Communication The Department of Economics The J. Ernest Tanner Award for Excellence in Economics- The J. Ernest Tanner Award for Excellence in Economics is given to the student with the highest GPA among all graduating Economics majors. The Mathematical Economics Award- The Mathematical Economics Award is given to the student with the highest GPA among all graduating Economics majors who also had a significant concentration in Mathematics. The Newcomb College Award in Economics- The Newcomb College Award in Economics is given to the outstanding female Economics major. The Paul Tulane College Award in Economics- The Paul Tulane College Award in Economics is given to outstanding male Economics majors. The Research Award in Economics- The Research Award in Economics is given to the student who produced an exemplary honors thesis. The Department of English The Class of 1903 Shakespeare Prize for Best Shakespearean Essay by a Woman The Dale Edmonds Prize for Best Short Story Written by an Undergraduate The Donald Pizer Award in American Literature The Pierce Butler Prize for Excellence in English The Senior Achievement Prize in Creative Writing The Senior Service Award in Creative Writing The Studio in the Woods Fellowship in Creative Writing The Department of French and Italian The Alcée Fortier Memorial Prize The French Government Book Prize- The French Government Prize honors students who have demonstrated extraordinary commitment to the study of French and exceptional proficiency in the language. The Italian Government Prize for Excellence in Italian The Jonathan Lorino Memorial Prize The Louis Bush Medal The Charles Oscar Maas Prize in French and Italian- The Maas prize recognizes exceptional essays written in French. The Program in Gender and Sexuality Studies The Award for the Outstanding Senior in Gender and Sexuality Studies The Department of German and Slavic Studies The Ann Royal Arthur Memorial Award- This award honors a student of German “who is distinguished not only by their achievements, but also by dedication and sense of duty.” The John T. Krumpelmann Award- This award honors the female German major with the highest scholastic record. The Russian Book Prize for Achievement in the Russian Language The Russian Award The Sally Reed Atkins Award- The Sally Reed Atkins Award was endowed in order to support “female graduate or undergraduate students of German Literature” and assist with travel expenses for their studies in Germany. The Department of History Chi Omega Prize- The Chi Omega Prize is given to the female History major with the highest GPA in the department and who has exhibited excellence in the study of History. The Montgomery History Award- The Montgomery Award is given to the male History major with the highest GPA in the department and who has exhibited excellence in the study of History. Prize for Excellence in Latin American, Middle Eastern, African, or Asian History- Awarded annually for the best undergraduate paper in Latin American, Middle Eastern, African, or Asian history. The Sidney Beyer Prize for Excellence in American History- Awarded annually for the best undergraduate paper in U.S. History. The Department of Jewish Studies The Dr. Bernard Kaufman Essay Contest Award The Dr. Lawrence J. Kanter and Julie Kanter Award The Ephraim Lisitzky Memorial Award The Department of Medieval and Early Modern Studies The Medieval and Early Modern Studies Prize The Murphy Institute- Political Economy The Charles H. Murphy Prize in Political Economy The Murphy Institute Public Service Award The Newcomb Department of Music The Sarah I. Nadler Memorial Award in Music Payson Center for International Development The Eamon Kelly Prize- The Eamon Kelly Prize is given to the undergraduate student in International Development who, in the judgement of the faculty, best reflects the values of leadership and academic rigor in development that Dr. Kelly's life work exemplifies. Dr. Kelly is a former President of Tulane and co-founder of the International Development Studies program. The Director’s Prize for Best Paper- The Director's prize is awarded to the student who, in the judgement of the faculty, demonstrates the greatest potential to make a significant contribution to international development work. The International Development Undergraduate Prize- The International Development Undergraduate Prize is for the graduating undergraduate student who has distinguished themself by a commitment to international development work. The Department of Philosophy The Anne Butler Hess Award The Department of Political Science The Charles E. Dunbar Jr. Fellowship in Political Science The Class of 1935 – Ned Putzell Memorial Prize The Mary B. Scott Memorial Prize The Pi Sigma Alpha Award The S. Walter Stern 1905 Memorial Medal The Shirley Wiel Greengus Memorial Award for Achievement in Political Science The Department of Sociology The Outstanding Student in Sociology Award The Phi Mu Award in Sociology The Department of Spanish and Portuguese The Hispano-American Studies Prize The Iberian Studies Prize The Luso-Brazilian Studies Prize The Newcomb Department of Theatre and Dance The Dorothy Young Memorial Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Rol The Janice Torre Perky Memorial Award for Excellence in Original or Creative Writing The Elizabeth B. Delery Award for Outstanding Achievement in Dance The Jill Karp Prize in Dance Performance The Minnette L. Starts Award for Excellence in Dance Garic K Barranger Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role The School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine The Outstanding Undergraduate Public Health Student Leadership Award The Outstanding Undergraduate Public Health Student Scholastic Award The Outstanding Undergraduate Public Health Student Service and Volunteerism Award-Every year the Dean gives an award for the highest GPA among our graduating class. The Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine Alumni Association Student Recognition Award- This award is for a student who is excels in academics as well as leadership and service. The School of Science and Engineering p>Biomedical Engineering The BMES Scholarship Award for an Outstanding Senior The Joyous & William C. Van Buskirk Scholarship in Biomedical Engineering The James A. Cronvich Award The Nissim Nathan Cohen Memorial Award The Kenneth H. Kuhn Sr. Memorial Award BME Design Competition The Department of Cell and Molecular Biology The Cell and Molecular Biology Prize The Gerald S. Gussack ’75 M.D. Award The Liz Earley Prize in Cell and Molecular Biology The Professor Erik G. Ellgaard Award for Excellence in Cell and Molecular Biology The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering The American Institute of Chemical Engineers Senior Scholarship Award- Awarded to the senior with the highest grade point average. The American Institute of Chemists Student Award- Chosen by the faculty, this is awarded to an outstanding senior for having demonstrated leadership ability, character, high scholastic standing and potential for advancement in the chosen profession. The Francis M. Taylor Award- Chosen by the faculty, this is awarded to a senior for outstanding citizenship based upon professional attitudes and accomplishments, ability to interact with colleagues and faculty and positive contributions to departmental and university programs. The Department of Chemistry The American Chemical Society Outstanding Senior Award- Award for his outstanding undergraduate research in chemistry. The American Institute of Chemists Award-For high academic achievement in a Chemistry major. The Merck Index Award-This award is given in recognition of scholastic achievement, leadership, character and research ability. The William L. Alworth Prizefor Biological Chemistry- This award is given annually to an outstanding graduating Biological Chemistry major. The Department of Computer Science The Award for Outstanding Service to Department of Computer Science The Award for Academic Excellence in Computer Science The Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences The Harold E. Vokes Award- outstanding academic record and contributions to undergraduate research. The Reinhard A. Steinmayer Award The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology The Fred R. Cagle Memorial Prize The Gerald E. Gunning Memorial Award The Zoology Prize The Department of Mathematics The Glendy Burke Medal in Mathematics The Kappa Kappa Gamma Prize in Mathematics The Terry C. Lawson Prize in Mathematics The Department of Neuroscience The Neuroscience Faculty Award The Department of Physics and Engineering Physics The Elsie Field Dupré Memorial Prizein Physics Joseph J. Kyame Physics Award The Department of Psychology The Aaron Hartman Award in Psychology The Anne M. McPherson Award in Psychology The Arnold Gerall Prize for Neuroscience The Barbara E. Moely Award for Psychology in the Public Interest The Rosa Cahn Hartman Award in Psychology The Faculty Memorial Award in Psychology Newcomb-Tulane College Senior Honors Scholars The distinction of senior honors scholar is bestowed upon the one student (or, occasionally, students) each department or program considers to be their very best, taking into account the quality of the student’s senior thesis, the student’s performance in courses, and the student’s other contributions to the field. National Fellowships And Scholarships Fulbright U.S. Student Program Critical Language Scholarship Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship Program Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Program Cowen Scholars Public Service The Leaders in Service Award- This award recognizes those students who have committed their Tulane University career to improving the community around them. Whether through service-learning courses, internships, student leadership, or volunteerism, these students have shown dedication to the city of New Orleans and beyond. The Jim Runsdorf Excellence in Public Service Student Award Student Athletes The Newcomb-Tulane College Student Athlete Award- This award is given to graduating seniors who best combine success as an athlete with success in the classroom. Newcomb-Tulane College Dean’s Service Awards Dean Skinner recognizes the following graduating seniors who have shown exemplary leadership, scholarship, honor, service, and commitment to the college and the campus community. Collegewide Awards The Isoline Rodd Kendall and John Smith Kendall Award- This award is given annually to a student who excels in both academic and extracurricular accomplishments. This award alternates yearly between male and female recipients. The Edward Ambrose Bechtel Medal for Cocurricular Achievement- This medal is awarded to the senior man in the liberal arts and sciences who has made the most significant contributions to the extracurricular life of the college. The William Wallace Peery Society- The William Wallace Peery Society was established in 1964 by Mrs. Peery in memory of her husband, the late Dr. Peery, professor of English, and dean of the College of Arts and Sciences from 1955 to 1964. Once restricted to senior men in the College of Arts and Sciences, later renamed Tulane College, the Peery Society is now selected from the ranks of all Newcomb-Tulane College undergraduates. Membership is awarded to those students who have earned among the highest cumulative grade point averages over the course of their undergraduate careers, and who have distinguished themselves academically through an honors thesis or equivalent accomplishment. The William Wallace Peery Society- The William Wallace Peery Society was established in 1964 by Mrs. Peery in memory of her husband, the late Dr. Peery, professor of English, and dean of the College of Arts and Sciences from 1955 to 1964. Once restricted to senior men in the College of Arts and Sciences, later renamed Tulane College, the Peery Society is now selected from the ranks of all Newcomb-Tulane College undergraduates. Membership is awarded to those students who have earned among the highest cumulative grade point averages over the course of their undergraduate careers, and who have distinguished themselves academically through an honors thesis or equivalent accomplishment. The William Wallace Peery Medal for Academic Excellence- This award is bestowed each year upon the member of the William Wallace Peery Society who has achieved the most distinguished academic record. The recipient is chosen by a special committee, which considers each candidate’s grades and course selections, as well as recommendations submitted by faculty members. The Peery Medal is ultimately awarded to the student who best exemplifies Dr. Peery’s educational philosophy, which stresses breadth and depth of learning and encourages students to work at the level of their greatest capacity. Past Senior Awards Programs 2020 Program 2019 Program 2018 Program 2017 Program Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University