Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Life at Harvard Residential Life Cambridge & Boston On this page Overview The Local Scene Dining and Nightlife Student Perks & Discounts Overview A College Town & A College City Cambridge and Boston are separated by the Charles River, but share a vibrant student population, an exciting blend of cultures, and a stimulating urban pulse. These two cities will host some of your most cherished memories. Explore, enjoy, repeat. The Local Scene Cambridge and Boston are famous for their robust student populations. With 200,000 students attending 50 institutions in metropolitan Boston, you’ll never find a shortage of book bags, coffee vendors, or intelligent conversation. Less well-known is Cambridge’s lively arts scene. Artists flock here for its eclectic architecture, legendary museums, street art, and engaging mix of urban and green spaces. In recent years, Cambridge has also become a hub for technological innovation, with countless startups transforming this side of Boston into a haven for entrepreneurs, hackers, and the tech savvy. Getting Around Cambridge is part of Boston’s comprehensive public transportation system (MBTA). With buses, cabs, and a subway stop right at the center of Harvard Square, you can easily get anywhere you need to go. Downtown Boston is only a 12-minute ride from campus. Nearby attractions: Museums Fenway Park The Freedom Trail (Boston’s trail of historic landmarks) Faneuil Hall Cruises to harbor islands and recreational areas Atlantic beaches Cozy seaside villages from Cape Cod to Maine Ski slopes Forests Tour Take a Virtual Tour Student guides lead you through the places they live and learn, including dorm rooms, classrooms, Widener Library, the first-year dining hall and more. Explore the virtual tour Dining and Nightlife When you want to venture out from the College’s dining halls, Cambridge gives you plenty of options with restaurants of all varieties, whether you like fresh seafood, tapas, Italian, Mexican, French, or Thai cuisine, or prefer locally sourced, organic foods. If you’re looking for nighttime fun, Cambridge stays alive well after dark. Gastropubs, cocktail bars, and live music are only a short walk or subway ride away. Just across the river, Boston’s restaurants, nightclubs, and concert venues offer the quality and variety you would expect from a major metropolitan city. Groups Outings & Innings Outings & Innings is an internal Harvard University service that provides various perks and discounts to Harvard faculty, staff, and students including high-demand events, museum, movie and theater tickets. Visit Outings & Innings Student Perks & Discounts See the Red Sox hit a homer from Fenway Park’s wooden seats. Watch the Bruins clinch a playoff spot at TD Garden. Experience the Nutcracker at the Opera House. Go with friends to a musical at the Loeb. Harvard undergraduates enjoy perks and discounts on a variety of event tickets. Museums, a night at the movies, and even a trip into Boston may be discountable. Discounts available to students Sports & Athletics Harvard athletic events on Harvard’s campus are free to undergraduates. 40 Division I NCAA teams call Harvard home and play games throughout the year. Score discounts to see Boston sports teams, including the Red Sox’s Student 9s offer. Arts & Culture Harvard students have access to a wide variety of rich arts and cultural events on and off campus, including 16 free Harvard museums, movie showings at the Harvard Film Archive, and performances from a stunning array of student groups. Harvard Museums Harvard Film Archive Harvard Box Office Transportation MBTA: The Harvard Station is at the heart of Harvard Square, just steps from the Yard. The Red Line connects Cambridge to Boston and its surrounding areas. The MBTA runs several bus lines through Harvard’s campus as well, making it easy to get to and from the Square. Bike Share: Blue bikes boasts 200+ stations across Boston, Cambridge, Somerville, and Brookline. 12 of these stations are supported by Harvard, and students benefit from a discounted yearly membership. Zip Car: With ZipCar, you can have a car when you need it. Harvard students get discounted rates, including a yearly membership for $15 a year. Free Shuttle Service: Getting around has never been easier. Harvard students can ride the Harvard and M2 shuttles for free with a student ID. Outings & Innings Want to get off campus? Outings & Innings has you covered. Harvard students can qualify for discounts and early access to events. These perks extend to family and friends, too. We promise you there’s something for everyone. Sports: includes discounts for the Celtics, Red Sox, Bruins, and more Museums: includes discounts for the MFA, the ICA, and the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum Performing Arts: includes access and discounts to plays, musicals, movies, concerts, and dance performances Movies: includes discounted tickets to see movies nationwide Campus Related Stories A Student’s Guide to Boston Author: Allison Scharmann Class of '21  Moving your life 5,000 miles Author: Nadine Bahour Class of '22  A Museum Junkie's Guide to Harvard Author:  View all student stories Related Topics Campus From our libraries to our museums, our support services to our common spaces, our campus is teeming with resources to guide your experience.  Residential Life From your living in a dormitory in or around Harvard Yard, to one of our iconic Houses, you'll feel at home.  Traditions From the Harvard-Yale football game to Housing Day, explore Harvard traditions.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Skip to site header Skip to main content