Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home The College Dean Lee Skinner Mission and Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Find Us College Leadership and Departments Faculty Resources Staff Resources Dean's Advisory Council Academics Core Curriculum Majors and Schools Academic Integrity Awards, Honors and Dean's List Honors Scholars College Scholars Program ROTC Summer School Support Advising Career Services Success Coaching Academic Equity Academic Learning & Tutoring Center Enrichment Courses Programs Global Education Undergraduate Research Grants for Academic Enrichment First Year Experience Sophomore Year Experience Junior Year Experience Student Leadership Opportunities Senior Week Events Calendar Speakers Informative and Networking Community Building and Celebrations News The Collegian The NTC Notice Stories and News Archive Give to NTC Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Enrichment Enrichment Newcomb-Tulane College helps students find and fund a variety of opportunities to take their education beyond the classroom through programs that provide experience, perspective and even life-changing educational moments that enrich your college experience. Within Newcomb-Tulane College, there are a variety of funding sources to help you pursue your dreams. The Center for Academic Equity and the Office of Academic Enrichment both offer several types of grants and scholarships to help fund internships, original research, and more! Interested in a unique international learning experience? Check out the Center for Global Education and the Office of Study Abroad to take your Tulane experience worldwide! Courses Engaging in these classes will help students develop an understanding of the research process as it is carried out within and across scholarly Events We offer guest speakers, seminars, campus-wide events, free daily coffee in Cudd Hall and Front Porch Friday on the first Friday of every month Programs NTC programs create intellectual and academic opportunities that foster faculty and student engagement inside and outside of the classroom. Global Education The Center for Global Education supports international students and scholars and develops opportunities to have intercultural experiences. Undergraduate Research Research is a high impact practice with strong, proven outcomes for undergraduate student enrichment. Grants for Academic Engagement NTC grants fund academic-based research, conference travel, internships (travel, transportation, and housing), and other projects. First Year Experience The first year experience is a set of programs, events and resources to help students thrive in their first year as NTC students. Sophomore Year Experience Sophomore year is a time for declaring a major (or two), trying new things and setting goals. We will guide you through it all. Residential Faculty Programs The Residential Faculty Mentor program increases faculty engagement with students in res halls and fosters academic life. Student Leadership Opportunities We value strong-minded, driven, and passionate student leaders and create opportunities for you to grow. Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Robert C. Cudd Hall Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5720 Maps & Directions Give to NTC Majors & Schools Events Calendar Catalog News Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Tulane Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University