Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Academics Liberal Arts & Sciences Dual Degree Music Programs On this page Overview Program New England Conservatory Berklee College of Music Overview For Musical Academics or Academic Musicians If you are a talented musician and dedicated scholar, choosing between in-depth music training and a liberal arts education can be a tough decision. With Harvard's dual-degree music programs with New England Conservatory (NEC) and Berklee College of Music, you can have the best of both worlds. Program The Harvard’s dual degree programs are a five-year endeavor where you will receive both a Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) from Harvard College and a master’s degree from New England Conservatory or Berklee. Students pursue a bachelor’s degree at Harvard while taking private lessons and preparatory classes at NEC or Berklee. In their fourth year, students complete Harvard’s bachelor’s requirements, and complete their master’s program in the fifth year. New England Conservatory The Harvard/NEC program is a dual degree program in which a student earns a Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) at Harvard College and a Master of Music (M.M.) at New England Conservatory. Conservatory Program Overview During your first three years, you will take studio instruction each semester at NEC, but you will focus on your academic coursework at Harvard. In your fourth year of study, you will complete your degree requirements at Harvard and begin to fulfill NEC’s Master of Music (M.M.) degree requirements, which you will finish in your fifth year of study. Admission The program is open to high school students who apply to both institutions through the normal admissions process. You must apply to both Harvard and NEC, indicating on both applications your interest in the Harvard-NEC dual degree option. If you are admitted to both institutions, you will then receive an additional decision for admission to the dual degree program. Performance applicants will be expected to audition at NEC during the regular auditions period in February/March. Composition applicants will be expected to interview at NEC during February/March if invited after review of scores and recordings. Harvard first-year students may also apply for admission to the program. Find out more at the Department of Music at Harvard (617-495-2791) or the Office of Admissions at New England Conservatory (617-585-1101). Tour Take a Virtual Tour Student guides lead you through the places they live and learn, including dorm rooms, classrooms, Widener Library, the first-year dining hall and more. Explore the virtual tour Berklee College of Music The Harvard-Berklee dual degree program is designed for musicians who are interested in building a foundation for their artistic careers as well as attaining a liberal arts education. Berklee Program overview During your first three years, you will focus on your academic coursework at Harvard and take private lessons and other preparatory courses at Berklee. Additionally students are required to participate in ensembles at either institution. Each semester, you must pass the appropriate instrumental proficiency assessment at Berklee. At the end of the third year, you will also complete an audition and interview to confirm your readiness to begin the master of music (M.M.) or master of arts (M.A.) program at Berklee. In your fourth year of study, you will complete your degree requirements at Harvard, and then complete all of your master’s requirements during your fifth year of study. The fifth year includes a short (six- or seven-week) summer semester. Admission The program is open to high school students who apply to both institutions through the normal admissions process. Berklee offers master’s degrees in scoring for film, television, and video games; music production, technology, and innovation; global entertainment and music business; and contemporary performance. View Berklee's graduate degree programs here. You must apply to both Harvard and Berklee, indicating on both applications your interest in the Harvard-Berklee dual degree option. If you are admitted to both institutions, you will then receive an additional decision for the dual degree program. Harvard first-year students may also apply for admission to the program. Find out more at the Department of Music at Harvard University (617-495-2791) or contact the Office of Admissions at Berklee College of Music at 800-237-5533 or admissions@berklee.com. Related Topics Campus From our libraries to our museums, our support services to our common spaces, our campus is teeming with resources to guide your experience.  Student Activities Activities outside the classroom help you explore new interests, grow your talents, and make new friends.  Academic Environment Explore what makes Harvard such a unique place to live and learn.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Skip to site header Skip to main content