Skip to main content OnView: Digital Collections & Exhibits Search Browse Items Browse Exhibits Browse Collections Collection Tree Strong Medicine Contribute Transcribe About the Center Browse Items Browse Exhibits Browse Collections Collection Tree Strong Medicine Contribute Transcribe About the Center Child's Crutch, 19th century Dublin Core Title Child's Crutch, 19th century Subject Child Wood Crutches Walking Tuberculosis Abstract Child's wooden crutch for use as walking aid. Crutch is simple and was constructed by nailing crescent-shaped underarm support piece to long wooden shaft. Creator Unknown Date Created 19th century Rights The Harvard Medical Library does not hold copyright on all the materials in the collection. For use information, contact the Warren Anatomical Museum Curator at chm@hms.harvard.edu Access Rights Accessing collections in the Warren Anatomical Museum and the Warren Anatomical Museum archive requires advanced notice. Please submit a request to Public Services at chm@hms.harvard.edu to access the displayed item Is Part Of Warren Anatomical Museum: 21428 Format object Extent 1 crutch Medium Medical Equipment Type physical object Identifier Warren Anatomical Museum Catalog Number: 21428 Provenance This crutch belonged to James (I. Minot?) and was found in the collections of the Warren Anatomical Museum. Still Image Item Type Metadata Original Format Crutch Physical Dimensions 13.25 W x 66.25 D x 3 H cm Files Collection Warren Anatomical Museum Tags Warren Anatomical Museum Citation Unknown, “Child's Crutch, 19th century,” OnView: Digital Collections & Exhibits, accessed June 1, 2022, https://collections.countway.harvard.edu/onview/items/show/16073. Item Relations This item has no relations. Transcribe This Item 21428_v2.JPG ← Previous Item Next Item → Center for the History of Medicine Countway Library of Medicine 10 Shattuck St. Boston, MA 02115 617-432-2170 chm@hms.harvard.edu Reproduction & Use Policies Please note that some OnView collections and exhibits include items from the Boston Medical Library. For questions or requests related to Boston Medical Library items, please contact: info@bostonmedicallibrary.org Browse Items Browse Exhibits Browse Collections Collection Tree Strong Medicine Contribute Transcribe About the Center Proudly powered by Omeka.