Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Financial Aid Federal Disclosures On this page Overview Basic Financial Aid Information How Awarding Works Disbursements Terms and Conditions of Employment Exit Counseling Academic Programs, Procedures, and Costs Policies and Reporting Overview As required by the Department of Education, we are providing information on the federal Consumer Information disclosures. These disclosures entail: basic financial aid information, descriptions of Harvard’s academic programs, procedures, and costs, as well as Harvard’s policies and required reporting. In this notice we provide a brief description of the various disclosures and how to obtain the full disclosures. Basic Financial Aid Information In this section, we provide a general description of all the federal, state, local, private, and institutional need-based and non-need-based financial assistance programs available to Harvard Undergraduates. We also discuss the rights and responsibilities of students receiving this assistance. Contact information for the Harvard College Griffin Financial Aid Office can be found here. How Awarding Works Need-Based Program Procedure: Students must first complete an aid application according to the following guidelines. You need to provide information about your family income and assets, outside awards, and unusual or changed financial circumstances. Once we have reviewed your information and determined your demonstrated need, you will be notified of your award for the coming year. Forms: In order to apply for aid, all families have to submit a complete financial aid application. US Citizens/Permanent Residents must complete the CSS Profile form as well as the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). The FAFSA is a free form and if you only wish to apply for federal aid it is the only form you need to submit. The CSS Profile helps us to determine eligibility for Harvard financial aid. Click here to see the complete financial aid application instructions. Eligibility: Our generous financial aid program—bolstered by the Harvard Financial Aid Initiative, which seeks to increase low- and middle-income students’ awareness of Harvard’s affordability—aims to make Harvard accessible to any student who is admitted. Our program requires no contribution from Harvard families with annual incomes below $65,000. About 20% of our families have no parent contribution. (Starting the 2022-23 academic year, families with annual incomes under $75,000 will have no parent contribution). Families with incomes between $65,000 and $150,000 will contribute from 0-10% of their income, and those with incomes above $150,000 will be asked to pay proportionately more than 10%, based on their individual circumstances. Families at all income levels who have significant assets are asked to pay more than those in less fortunate circumstances. Home equity and retirement assets are not considered in our assessment of financial need. Families can use our Net Price Calculator to quickly estimate their aid package and expected family contribution. Awarding In determining your need-based Financial Aid award, your package will consist of a work component and a Grant component that could be made up of the following funds: Types of Aid Federal Pell Grant - This grant is awarded to students based on their Federal Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) as determined by filing the FAFSA. SEOG Grant - This grant fund, allocated to colleges by the federal government, is awarded to our students with exceptional need who are also receiving a Pell Grant. Federal Work Study - The Federal Work-Study Program provides funds for part-time employment to help students with need to finance the costs of postsecondary education. State Gilbert Grant - This grant fund, allocated to colleges by the state of Massachusetts, is awarded to permanent residents of Massachusetts based on need. Institutional Harvard Grant - Institutional Grant funding that may come from a specific donor Term Time Job - Students who are not eligible for Federal Work-Study are encouraged to find employment through our Jobs Database in our Student Employment Office. Requesting Loans Students are not expected to take out loans as part of their financial aid package. Our aid packages are designed to cover financial need without additional borrowing. However, students may choose to pursue loans to help cover the student and/or family contribution. Once a student has requested a loan, our office will award the following loan: Institutional (Harvard) Loan: This need based loan is awarded dependent on your federal and institutional eligibility. It is important to understand the terms of any loan you borrow as well as how to manage your debt and repayment Other Aid Options Federal Direct Loans Student Loans: Students who are US citizens/permanent residents have the option of borrowing from the Federal Direct Loan Program. Descriptions and terms of the need based subsidized Direct Loan and non-need based unsubsidized Direct Loan can be found on our website. Parent Loans: Parents who are US Citizens/permanent residents have the option of borrowing from the Federal Direct PLUS Loan Program. A description of the procedures for applying as well as the terms of the loan can be found here. Private (Student and Parent) Loans Students applying for private educational loans must apply directly via their lender’s website. If you are considering a private loan, you should compare the loan terms offered by several programs in order to choose the best fit for your situation. Private loans typically have the student as the primary borrower and the parent as a co-borrower. Parents and students are encouraged to look into the federal and institutional loan options available to them before deciding to borrow a private loan. Click here for tips on how to choose a private lender. Once your loan has been approved, the Financial Aid Office will certify your loan verifying your enrollment and eligibility. Your maximum loan eligibility is your total cost of attendance minus any aid received. Outside Grants and Scholarships A student may receive grants or scholarships from sources outside Harvard. For information regarding our policies, reporting and sources for additional funding, consult our outside awards page. Continued Eligibility Guidelines Financial Aid is re-determined each year based on a number of criteria. Eligibility for one school year does not guarantee future eligibility. To determine eligibility for: Institutional aid, you must: Complete an application with the given deadline. Federal aid, you must: Meet basic eligibility criteria. Make Satisfactory Academic Progress Complete the FAFSA. State aid you must: Complete the FAFSA with the given deadline. Disbursements The various forms of aid (grants, scholarships and loans) administered by the Financial Aid Office are applied directly to your student termbill account as an anticipated credit to pay billed expenses (ie. tuition, fees, room and board). There are institutional and federal guidelines for checking eligibility prior to disbursement. If you have any outstanding documents that need to be completed in order to disburse your aid, they will be listed on your my.harvard.edu webpage. When students are registered and meet eligibility requirements for disbursement, our aid is disbursed as follows: Aid Disbursed by the Financial Aid Office Grants: For students who have met eligibility requirements, Fall institutional and federal grants are removed as anticipated aid and replaced with actual disbursements for the November termbill. Spring grants are removed as anticipated aid and replaced with actual disbursements for the December termbill. After the initial disbursement, aid for both terms is then disbursed weekly, as additional students meet the eligibility criteria. Loans: Students must sign a Master Promissory Note (MPN) for each loan program. Once an MPN is signed, loans will be disbursed in equal installments for the Fall and Spring. Aid Disbursed by Outside Agencies The grants, scholarships and loan funding students receive from outside agencies (state, local, private) are disbursed to the termbill as they are received from the outside agency. Terms and Conditions of Employment All students, regardless of their financial aid status, may work during the academic year—and in fact, around two-thirds of our students do. When students are awarded need based aid, their financial aid package includes a “Term Time Work Expectation”. All students are encouraged to go to the Student Employment Office website, which hosts a jobs database to assist them in finding a job. By working 8-12 hours a week a student can earn approximately $2,000-$4,000 over the course of the year. All wages earned are to be paid directly to the student, rather than appearing on their term bill. Federal Work Study: If a student is eligible for Federal need based financial aid by filing the FAFSA form, their Term Time Work Expectation will be designated as “Federal Work Study”. For a detailed understanding of the Federal Work Study program including the requirements please visit the Federal Work Study section of the Student Employment Office website. Exit Counseling All student loan borrowers who graduate or drop below half-time enrollment are required to complete Exit Counseling, which details the repayment of student loans. The following information is provided during Exit Counseling: The anticipated average monthly repayment amount; The available repayment plan options; The options for each loan to prepay, pay on a shorter schedule, or change repayment plans; The effects and repercussions of loan consolidation; Debt management strategies designed to facilitate repayment; Information on how to contact the borrower’s Direct Loan Servicer; The consequences of default; The terms and conditions under which a borrower may obtain full or partial forgiveness, cancellation, deferment, or forbearance. Details on the availability of the Department’s Student Loan Ombudsman’s office; Details on the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) and how it can be used to obtain Title IV loan status information; An explanation of how the borrower’s maximum eligibility period, remaining eligibility period, and subsidized usage period are determined; and the sum of the borrower’s subsidized usage periods; The consequences of continued borrowing or enrollment; The impact of becoming responsible for accrued interest; A general description of the types of tax benefits available to borrowers; Disclosure of the borrower requirement to provide current contact information; Though not required, the Financial Aid Office has also expanded the scope of our Exit Counseling conversation to include information on budgeting and money management. Borrowers with Federal Loans can find complete information for Direct Loan Exit Counseling online. Additionally students who have borrowed: Institutional Harvard loans are required to complete an online repayment schedule which contains balances, monthly payment amounts, due dates, and interest rates for each of their loans. Students will be contacted in April with links and instructions on how to complete these forms. Federal Direct Loans will have their repayment schedules mailed to them from their Direct Loan Servicer. We encourage these students to go through online Exit Counseling on their website https://studentaid.gov/. From a Private Lender will have their loan debt amount included on their summary sheet but must contact their lender for further information. Academic Programs, Procedures, and Costs Academic Programs You have many options when pursuing your Harvard degree. We offer more than 3,700 courses in 48 undergraduate fields of study, which we call concentrations. Many of our concentrations are interdisciplinary. The College website has a complete listing of concentrations with links to each department where you will find the information on faculty, facilities and advising. Accreditation Harvard University is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE). Harvard, like all accredited universities and colleges, is reviewed for reaccreditation generally every 10 years and last received accreditation in 2018. FAQ’s on Harvard’s accreditation can be found at Office of Institutional Research. School Costs The Cost of Attendance figure includes both the billed costs of Tuition, Fees, Room and Board as well as estimates for Personal Expenses (including books) and travel. For students who are allowed to enroll less than full time, your tuition figure would be adjusted accordingly (1/2, 3/4) Study Abroad Discover new cultures, learn a language, and gain unforgettable experiences by including international travel in your undergraduate degree. Learn about our study abroad programs. A student’s enrollment in a program of study abroad approved for credit by Harvard may be considered enrolled at Harvard for the purposes of applying for federal as well as institutional financial aid. Textbook Information Harvard’s online course catalogue lists over 8,000 classes. It includes course descriptions, faculty, meeting times, and links to syllabuses and textbook information. You can search textbook prices via the Harvard Coop. Transfer of Credit Please contact the Registrar's Office for details. Withdrawal Procedures At some point in a student’s career, they may decide to halt their enrollment and take a leave of absence. Alternately, a student may be required to withdraw from the College. Details on the College’s requirements and procedures regarding leave of absences/withdrawals can be found in the Handbook for Students. Federal funds are adjusted according to these policies. The FAO handles making adjustments to aid and returning any required funds to the Department Of Education. Policies and Reporting Annual Fire Safety Report The Harvard University Environmental Health and Safety Department publishes the Annual Fire Safety Report, which includes fire safety polices, evacuation procedures, and fire statistics. Annual Teacher Preparation Report UTEP is a pre-professional teaching program available to all Harvard undergraduate students. This elective program combines coursework at the Graduate School of Education and field work in Boston, Cambridge, and Somerville public schools. Read the annual teacher preparation report. Clery (Campus Security) Act The University is required by federal law (The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, 20 U.S.C. 1092(f), known as the “Clery Act”) to publish an annual security report. A copy of the report as well as the disclosure procedures can be found on the Harvard University Police website. Code of Conduct Harvard University is committed to the highest standard of ethics and conduct, and financial aid staff are bound to the conflict of interest and commitment policies applicable to all Harvard employees. Harvard has adopted a Code of Conduct relating to educational loan programs. Copyright Infringement Harvard University is committed to maintaining the integrity and availability of the Harvard network for the vital educational and research purposes for which it was designed and prohibits the use of its network to violate the law, including the U.S.Copyright Act. Please read the annual copyright disclosure. Disability University Disability Services serves as a central resource on disability-related information, procedures and services for the University community and provides expertise in the development, implementation, and acquisition of standard disability-related University practices, procedures and resources. Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention State and federal law, as well as University policy, prohibit the unlawful possession, use, or distribution of illicit drugs and alcohol by students and employees.Violators of the law may be subject to heavy penalties mandated by city, state, and federal governments. Potential penalties include the loss of student grants and loans, fines, and prison sentences. The University Police Department maintains and updates our required drug and alcohol abuse materials. Equity in Athletics The Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act (EADA) requires a school with an intercollegiate athletic program to make prospective students aware of it’s commitment to providing equitable athletic opportunities for its male and female students. Annually, The Report on Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data is updated as required on October 15th. FERPA The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (“FERPA”) is a federal law that gives students certain rights with respect to their education records. More information is available on the Registrar’s website. Immunization Policies As a student, you must meet Massachusetts’ strict immunization requirements in order to register for classes. We encourage you to receive the required immunizations before you arrive at Harvard, as many private health plans will cover the cost. If you are unable to obtain these prior to your arrival on campus, you may arrange to get immunizations at various locations in the area, including Harvard University Health Services (HUHS). Please note that your health plan may not cover immunizations you receive at HUHS, in which case you will be responsible for the cost of the immunizations. Please check with HUHS for the proper immunization recording procedures. Retention and Graduation Rates As required, we have reported our graduation rates of degree-seeking, first-time, full-time undergraduates to the department via the IPEDs website. Additional rates for students in select categories can be found on this chart. Related Topics How to complete the FAFSA Tips on how to complete the FAFSA, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid.  Apply For Financial Aid We strive to make our financial aid application as streamlined as possible.  Managing Your Aid Information on taking a leave of absence, notifying us about outside awards, federal verification, and sibling verification.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Skip to site header Skip to main content