Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Overview  Mission, Vision, & History Mission, Vision, & History Submenu History of Financial Aid Dean Rakesh Khurana Dean Rakesh Khurana Submenu Messages to Students Messages to Parents & Families Dean's Office Staff Campus Campus Submenu Campus Updates Campus Spotights College Offices  News & Announcements  Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview  Net Price Calculator Net Price Calculator Submenu Calculadora de precios netos How Aid Works How Aid Works Submenu Types of Aid Bills & Payments Apply For Financial Aid Apply For Financial Aid Submenu Prospective Students Current Students Financial Aid Forms Additional Funding & Procedures Additional Funding & Procedures Submenu Managing Your Aid Study Abroad Summer School Federal Disclosures  Academics Academics Overview  Liberal Arts & Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Submenu Concentrations Dual Degree Music Programs Study Abroad Faculty Faculty Submenu Faculty Spotlights Research  Advising  Life at Harvard Life at Harvard Overview Life at Harvard Overview Submenu Events Residential Life Residential Life Submenu Cambridge & Boston Student Activities Student Activities Submenu Leadership & Service Traditions Athletics  Health & Wellbeing  Diversity & Inclusion  Student Stories Student Stories Submenu Meet Our Students Menu and Search Guides Guides Search Search Close Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu, Guides, and Resources Menu About Toggle About Submenu About Overview Mission, Vision, & History Dean Rakesh Khurana Campus College Offices News & Announcements Admissions Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Why Harvard Explore Harvard Apply Financial Aid Toggle Financial Aid Submenu Financial Aid Overview Net Price Calculator How Aid Works Apply For Financial Aid Additional Funding & Procedures Federal Disclosures Academics Toggle Academics Submenu Academics Overview Liberal Arts & Sciences Faculty Research Advising Life at Harvard Toggle Life at Harvard Submenu Life at Harvard Overview Residential Life Student Activities Athletics Health & Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Student Stories Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Guides Application Tips Navigating Campus Preparing for College How to Complete the FAFSA What to Expect After You Apply View All Guides Resources Campus Reopening Plans Parents & Families Alumni School Counselors Información en Español Undergraduate Viewbook View All Resources Close Search and Useful Links Search the site Search * Search Leave this field blank * Search Suggestions Top Searched Tuition Majors Courses Scholarships Sports International Students Transfer COVID-19 Common Questions What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University? What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education? Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver? Can I self-report my test scores? Do I need a minimum required SAT, ACT or Subject Test score? Helpful Links FAQs Applicant Portal Events Contact Us my.harvard Breadcrumb Admissions Apply Visiting Undergraduate Students On this page Overview About the VUS Program Application Timeline How To Apply Tuition & Fees Housing & Advising Contact VUS Admissions Overview Contacting VUS Admissions Following University guidance regarding COVD-19, the Admissions Office staff are working remotely until further notice. The VUS Admissions team will be available to answer questions by email at adm-vus@fas.harvard.edu Monday through Friday between the hours of 9am and 5pm EST. We will not be available by phone. Contact Us The Visiting Undergraduate Students (VUS) Program at Harvard College welcomes students enrolled in colleges and universities around the world to spend a semester or full year studying at Harvard. Frequently Asked Questions Am I eligible to become a Visiting Undergraduate Student (VUS)? If you are currently enrolled full-time at an accredited college or university you may apply to spend one or two semesters studying at Harvard College. This program is not for High School Graduates who wish to study at Harvard for a Gap Year. Additionally, since the VUS Program is for full-time undergraduate students only, if you have already achieved the equivalent of a bachelor's degree, you would not be eligible. However, you might be eligible to be a "Special Student" at the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences. For more information on this program, please visit their website: http://www.gsas.harvard.edu/programs_of_study/special_students_admissio… Is there financial aid for visiting undergraduate students? As a Visiting Undergraduate Student, you will not be eligible for Harvard financial aid and you must secure your own funding. Are visiting undergraduate students eligible for Harvard housing? Visiting undergraduate students are not offered University housing. Accepted students must find their own housing before they arrive in Cambridge. Do Visiting Undergraduate Students (VUS) have the same privileges as Harvard Degree Candidates? While VUS are not degree candidates and do not receive a diploma from Harvard College, they have access to all libraries, academic, and athletic facilities just like Harvard degree candidates. VUS are affiliated with the Dudley Community, the Harvard Community for students who live off campus. If you would like to learn more about life as a Visiting Undergraduate Students and the affiliation with the Dudley Community visit: https://dudley.harvard.edu/homepage May I apply for both Transfer Admission and for the Visiting Undergraduate Students Program at the same time? No. Applicants may apply to only one program per admissions cycle. About the VUS Program Add Harvard College to your undergraduate experience by spending a term or full academic year studying as a Visiting Undergraduate Student (VUS). We welcome the unique insights visiting students bring from their current universities around the world. In addition to enrollment in courses at the college, you can take advantage of our many museums, laboratories, theaters, and extracurricular activities, all in the rich cultural and historical setting of Cambridge and Boston. You should consider applying to the VUS program if you: Are currently enrolled in full-time, undergraduate study in the U.S. or abroad Have a strong academic and personal record at your current university Feel your interests would be well served by undergraduate courses which may not be offered normally in your home institution but are offered by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS). View our course catalog for full listings. Please note that visiting undergraduate students are not eligible for financial aid, so you will need to be prepared to cover all tuition and other costs. What we look for in a VUS applicant Your Visiting Undergraduate Student application should demonstrate strong educational reasons for studying at Harvard College. Our committee considers: Evidence of academic strength and personal integrity Your academic preparation for your proposed plan of study Approval of your current college or university Breadth of interest both in and beyond the classroom Availability of space in the types of courses you wish to undertake A strong knowledge of the English language Typically, you will apply during your second or third year of undergraduate study. Application Timeline Admission to the VUS program is offered twice per year. Students can apply to start in the fall or the spring term. Students applying for fall admission can enroll for either one semester or the full academic year. Applications must be postmarked by the date of the deadline. Ordinarily, you are not allowed to defer admission, so please apply for the appropriate term. Fall term or full academic year Application opens: February 1 Application deadline: April 1 Notification of admission: by June 1 Spring term Application opens: August 1 Application deadline: October 1 Notification of admission: by December 1 How To Apply The online application consists of information about the student, transcripts, and supporting documents from your current university, listed below. You will send out the forms requesting the various supporting documents through the online system once you have started the student portion of the application. For further information about each component of the application, please carefully read through the information below. Detailed VUS Application Steps Step 1: Submit the student portion of the Visiting Undergraduate Application. As you fill out the Visiting Undergraduate Student Application, you will need to: Prepare a Tentative Course Plan: This plan, considered part of your application, is an indication of the kinds of courses you would like to undertake at Harvard. It is not binding. Please consult our course catalog in preparing your plan, selecting courses in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Consider both the General Education section and departmental listings. With a few exceptions noted on the application, most courses are open to visiting students. Because some courses are limited in enrollment, require the instructor’s permission, or have prerequisites, adjustments to your course selection are to be expected during registration week. Admission to our program does not guarantee your enrollment in any particular course. Course schedules and information about limited enrollment for each academic year are not available until late summer. Many courses remain the same from year to year and any course not being offered is usually identified. However, if your course plan is dependent on a particular course, please contact the department to ensure it is being offered during the term for which you are applying and to determine the likelihood of being able to enroll in it. In addition, if you need a detailed course syllabus you will have to contact the department directly. Write a brief Statement of Purpose. Submit an updated Resume or Curriculum Vitae. Submit your Application: As soon as you submit your application you will gain access to the Applicant Portal where you can monitor the status of your application. Please check the portal regularly. Our office cannot confirm the receipt of supporting documents until your application has been submitted. Step 2: Submit two faculty recommendations. Faculty letters should come from your university professors or teachers who have taught you in the classroom. Step 3: Submit a Dean’s Letter of Permission form The Dean's Letter of Permission certifies that: You have the permission of your current university to study at Harvard You are in good academic and personal standing Upon satisfactory completion of the courses taken at Harvard, you will be granted degree credit Step 4: Send an Official Secondary School Transcript If you are from an international school system in which promotion is based upon standardized exams, you should also send a certified copy of your exam results. For example: British A levels, French Baccalaureate, Gaokao Results, International Baccalaureate, etc. Credentials must be in English or accompanied by a certified translation. Transcripts will be verified. Step 5: Send an Official University Transcript Credentials must be in English or accompanied by a certified translation. You should submit a transcript from all universities you have attended. Transcripts will be verified. Step 6: Submit a TOEFL Score (for non-native English speakers only) Students whose native language is not English ARE REQUIRED to submit a TOEFL score not more than two years old. Official tests results must be submitted directly to the Admissions Office from ETS (code #3434). We will not accept any other language proficiency tests in lieu of the TOEFL. While not required, candidates who have taken SAT I, SAT II, or ACT tests are encouraged to submit their results, reported directly from the College Board (code #3434) or the American College Testing Service (code #1840) Tour Take a Virtual Tour Use our Virtual Tour to discover spaces that aren't even available on an in-person campus tour, such as classrooms, laboratories, residence halls, and more. Explore Harvard Tuition & Fees When you spend a term or year at Harvard, you will need to pay the costs listed below. Visiting Undergraduate Students are not eligible for Harvard financial aid, and you must secure your own funding. In order to satisfy U.S. Immigration requirements, international students must demonstrate that they can afford all expenses, including tuition, fees, living expenses, and travel. While you are responsible for securing your own off-campus housing, you will need to show that you can afford the food and housing estimates shown below before arriving at Harvard. Most Harvard College students are enrolled in four courses (16 credits) per term, but you may choose to enroll in fewer. If you are an international student, you are required by United States immigration laws to enroll in a full-time program of study (a minimum of 3 courses) in order to obtain your visa. Tuition Rates Per Course for 2022 - 2023 Tuition Only Course Rate Per Semester Per Year 1 $6,582.38 $13,164.75 2 $13,164.75 $26,329.50 3 $19,747.12 $39,494.25 4 $26,329.50 $52,659.00 Fees for 2022 - 2023 Fees Only Cost Per Semester Per Year Fees $1,476.50 $2,953.00 Blue Cross Blue Shield $2,040.00 $4,080.00 Tuition $26,329.50 $52,659.00 Total $29,813.50 $59,627.00 Living Expense Estimates for 2022 - 2023 Cost Per Semester Per Year Housing $6,028.00 $12,056.00 Food $3,723.00 $7,446.00 Personal $1,750.00 $3,500.00 Travel $2,000.00 $4,000.00 Total $13,501.00 $27,002.00 Housing & Advising Visiting undergraduate students are not offered University housing. Accepted students must find their own lodging before they arrive in Cambridge. Securing an apartment in the Cambridge area can be competitive and time-consuming. It is important to allow sufficient time to find accommodation. It is critical to secure housing before arriving at Harvard. Harvard University Housing cannot secure off-campus housing for undergraduate students, but they do provide a number of online resources and can answer questions that are common for students who will be new to Cambridge. (e.g., Which residential areas are close to the mass transit system? Which locations are within walking distance to Harvard Yard? What is a reasonable rental rate? etc.). After you have been accepted and decide to matriculate, you can access a Harvard University affiliate database of private market rentals and sublets. Advising To help ensure your time at Harvard is successful, we provide advising resources specifically for Visiting Undergraduate Students. Our advisers: Give you an extensive orientation upon arrival and approve your final course selection Meet with you by appointment throughout the term to discuss academic issues and monitor your progress Hold regular open office hours Help you access specialized advising resources Organize social gatherings with other visiting undergraduates Contact VUS Admissions If you have any questions about the Visiting Undergraduate Students admissions, please contact us at adm-vus@fas.harvard.edu. We're here to help. Related Topics Why Harvard Explore what makes Harvard such a unique place to live and learn.  Academics Small classes, fascinating course topics, personalized degree programs, and unsurpassed research opportunities across a diverse field of subjects.  Faculty Harvard students have access to some of the world’s greatest scholars. Learn more about our faculty and their impactful role in the College community.  Site Footer Helpful Links Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Portal Admitted Students Contact Us My.Harvard University Resources Academic Calendar Campus Map Dean of Students Office Directory Office of Undergraduate Education FAS Registrar Important Addresses Harvard College University Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Toggle Admissions Submenu Admissions Overview Admissions Overview Submenu Admissions Statistics Why Harvard Why Harvard Submenu Affordability Academic Environment Residential Life Innovation Arts & Humanities Student Activities Diversity and Access Explore Harvard Explore Harvard Submenu On-Campus Visits Online Information Sessions Virtual Tour Connect With Students Meet Us Online Apply Apply Submenu What We Look For First-Year Applicants Considering a Gap Year Application Requirements Transfer Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Visiting Undergraduate Students International Applicants Skip to site header Skip to main content