Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University and Slavery Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Project History Historical Figures Student Research News 1. King's College and Slavery 2. Where the Money Came From 3. The Livingstons 4. Watts, Crugers, and Others 5. King’s, the Revolution, and Slavery 6. Columbians and the Manumission Society 7. Columbia Faculty and Students and Slavery 8. Columbia and Colonization 9. John Jay II: Columbia Abolitionist 10. Columbia, P and S, Race Science, and Black Students 11. Columbia and Irrepressible Conflict 12. Columbia and the Civil War Early Presidents Merchant Families The Manumission Society, Colonizationists, and Abolitionists The College of Physicians and Surgeons The Civil War Era Joe: A Slave at King's College Post-1865: Faculty and Administration Post-1865: Students Columbia University and Slavery Home Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 What is Columbia's historical relationship to the institution of slavery? Learn More Why did we continue the research beyond emancipation in 1865? Learn More Who was Zora Neale Hurston? Learn More How did students find archival materials documenting the legacy of slavery at Columbia after 1865? Learn More Previous Next Highlights Zora Neale Hurston Post-1865: Students African American students began to matriculate at Columbia in significant numbers by the 1920s, but they remain all but invisible in the university’s archival records. Learn about Zora Neale Hurston, the first black woman to attend Barnard College as well as many others More... Columbia and the Legacy of Slavery Post-1865: Columbia and the Legacy of Slavery Why did we continue the research beyond emancipation in 1865? More... An article in the Chicago Defender Post-1865 Research Process The research found on this website was derived from student research in the Columbia University & Slavery class. Students spent significant time with archival resources to develop the narrative. Post-1865 research material can be found here More... We hope that this website, very much a work in progress, will contribute to public understanding of the key role slavery has played in our nation’s history and offer an example to other institutions of higher learning as they pursue their own investigations. Eric Foner, DeWitt Clinton Professor of History Student Researchers Examine Slavery and Columbia’s Early History | Columbia News Columbia University in the City of New York116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close