Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Wellness Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What We Do About the Center TASHE News Events Meet Our Team Services Ask-A-Nurse Enrollment Assistance Program Health Counseling Training InTOuCH Mental Health First Aid Columbia | Wellness Center You are here: Home Ask-A-Nurse Hotline Ask-A-Nurse Hotline Sometimes you need a quick answer to a health question. Maybe your concern can't wait until you see your doctor. We're here to help. The Ask-A-Nurse program is a new no-cost service for community members seeking answers to health-related questions. Get Your Questions Answered You can talk to our registered nurse to get help with: Deciding whether to visit an urgent care center or a doctor Understanding your symptoms Managing chronic conditions Learning about treatment options and medical procedures If you need urgent or emergency care, call 911 and/or your doctor immediately. Clinical staff of the Ask-A-Nurse helpline cannot diagnose, prescribe, or give medical advice. Call your doctor with any questions or concerns about your health. Material shared is for informational and educational purposes only. We do not aim to replace the role of your healthcare provider or physician. The Ask-A-Nurse program acts as additional support and guidance in your healthcare journey. Health education programs provide general health information and are not a substitute for treatment or diagnosis by a physician or other health care professional. Contact a healthcare professional with any questions or concerns about specific healthcare needs. Examples of the type of questions community members may have when calling the Ask-A-Nurse hotline: I fell down and hit my head — should I go to an urgent care center or emergency room? I don't know what my cholesterol test means. Can you explain it to me? How do I know if I have the cold or if it's the flu? Can you help me find a regular doctor? What is the phone number for the Ask-A-Nurse hotline? We are currently in the process of setting up our telecommunication system. At the time being, individuals have the option of making a 30-minute reservation through our online scheduling portal. Ask-A-Nurse Online Scheduler Book Your Appointment [email protected] Jerome L. Greene Science Center610 W. 130th St. · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1146 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close