Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home FAQs For Graduates For Graduates Expand all Collapse all How should I prepare? Don't leave home without it! Be prepared to enter campus with these items before the candidate lineup starts on upper campus at 7:45 a.m. for University Commencement. Make sure to inform your guests about what they should bring with them on Commencement day. Cap and Gown Ticket ReopenCU Green Pass, Proof of Vaccination, or Negative COVID-19 Test (time-stamped photo of an at-home antigen test on the day of each event or email results of a PCR test within 48 hours of the first attended event) Non-cloth Mask Water Bottle Prepare for inclement weather Feeling sick? Stay home and tune in virtually. How do I obtain my cap and gown? Regalia is mandatory for all graduation events. All academic attire, including the cap and gown, is ordered through the Columbia University Bookstore. Check with your individual school prior to placing your regalia order to find out more about any unique instructions. Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees: Orders can be placed in store starting March 8. Online orders may be placed beginning March 14 and ending April 27 to be directly shipped to the student by visiting columbia.shopoakhalli.com. Doctoral Degrees: Regalia may be reserved in stores from March 8 through April 11 without incurring a late fee. In-store pickup and ship-to-home options are available. Online orders may be placed beginning March 14 and ending March 31 by visiting columbia.shopoakhalli.com. Doctoral rental regalia will be available for pickup in-store beginning May 5. A ship-to-home option is not available online. 2022 Grad Fair: March 8-10 at the Morningside University Bookstore from 11:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Distribution of bachelor and master souvenir packs begins. March 11 at the Medical Center Bookstore from 11:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. For more information on academic attire, graduation announcements, class rings, and diploma frames, please call the Bookstore directly at 212-854-4132. When do graduating Columbia College and SEAS undergraduate students need to move out of residence halls? Unless arrangements are made for summer housing, graduating Columbia College and SEAS undergraduates must move out of University housing by noon on the day after the University Commencement ceremony. When do I get my diploma? Based on the degree conferral date for all graduates in April, May, and June of 2022, diplomas will be mailed to the "Diploma Address" that is on file in SSOL. October 2021 and February 2022 graduates will have received their diplomas in the mail up to two months following their graduation dates. Please visit the University Registrar for more information. How do student/graduate “stories” get published on the Commencement website? Please email the Office of Communications and Public Affairs at [email protected] to submit your story to the Commencement website. How should I get to campus? In general, New York City's excellent public transportation system will be the best way to get to and from campus during Commencement Week. 1 train at 116th Street subway station. *Please note that the 116th Street subway station is not wheelchair accessible; the nearest accessible subway station is 96th Street. M4, M60, and M104 buses at 116th Street and Broadway M5 bus at 116th Street and Riverside Drive M11 bus at 116th Street and Amsterdam Avenue Campus shuttles for students coming from CUIMC and Manhattanville campuses will be available. Visit Columbia Transportation or download the Passio Go! mobile app for more information. FAQ Topics COVID-19 Inquiries General For Graduates For 2020 & 2021 Graduates Tickets Planning Your Visit Helpful Links Webcast Announcements School Ceremonies Schedule of Events Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Commencement Office Questions? We're available by email. E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close