Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Communications Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Dean's Message Our People Our Foundations Our Facilities Our Programs Our Alumni Connect with us Departments & Degrees Show Extended Cinema and Television Arts Department of Cinema and Television Arts B.A., Cinema and Television Arts Critical Studies Industry Management Production Screenwriting M.F.A., Screenwriting Minor, Cinema and Television Arts Communications Department of Communications B.A., Communications Advertising Entertainment and Tourism Communications Journalism Public Relations M.A., Communications Mass Communications Research and Theory Professional Communications Tourism and Entertainment Minors Advertising Journalism Public Relations Human Communication Studies Department of Human Communication Studies B.A., Communication Studies Argumentation and Debate Communication Studies (General) Intercultural Communication Interpersonal Communication Organizational Communication M.A., Communication Studies Minor, Communication Studies Communication Sciences and Disorders Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders B.A. Communication Disorders Catalog B.A. Information M.A. Communication Disorders Catalog M.A. Information Other Notice To Students re: Professional licensure And Certification Communicative Disorders Certification Communicative Disorders Licensure Speech-Language Pathology Services Credential Prospective Students Show Extended Application-Undergraduate Application-Graduate Catalog Facilities and Labs Financial Aid College of Communications Themed Housing Community Housing Testing Current Students Show Extended Student Success Center Career Center Catalog Student Life and Engagement Commencement Facilities and Labs Final Exams Financial Aid Internship Scholarships Make a Gift Contact us Scholarships The College of Communications offers a variety of scholarships for students in all four degree programs: Cinema and Television Arts (CTVA), Communications (COMM), Human Communication Studies (HCOM) and Communication Sciences and Disorders (COMD). Below are links to a PDF list of scholarships available in each department, including the available college-wide scholarships. Please note that some scholarships require additional material, such as an essay, beyond just the application. Be sure to submit all requested documents. Not all scholarships have the same deadline date. Please read the instructions for each scholarship carefully. SPRING '20 COLLEGE OF COMMUNICATIONS Scholarship Newsletter 2022 SCHOLARSHIPS LISTED BY DEPARTMENT Department of Communications Scholarships (COMM) Department of Human Communication Studies Scholarships (HCOM) Department of Cinema and Television Arts Scholarships (CTVA) Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders (COMD) Additionaly, the university offers a number of scholarships. Full details for scholarships and awards at Cal State Fullerton are available by clicking on the link below: All University General Scholarships Page How Scholarships Can Affect Your Financial Aid Awards: As a financial aid recipient, you understand that funds received from outside sources or agency for educational expenses (i.e., scholarships fee waivers, Voc Rehab assistance, etc.) will be coordinated with all other aid offered and that the coordination of these additional resources may result in retroactive changes to the types and amounts of financial aid initially offered by California State University, Fullerton. Disclaimer: Federal regulations require students to notify the Office of Financial Aid of any scholarships and/or stipends they are receiving, which includes awards issued by academic departments and those paid directly to the student. Upon notification, all financial aid funds - this includes scholarships/stipends - must be considered when determining your eligibility for all other financial aid award(s). Speak with a financial aid counselor to discuss the impact on your financial aid award package. This site is maintained by College of Communications. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact commwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.