Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Awardees Rolando T. Acosta Rolando T. Acosta Hon. Rolando T. Acosta ’79CC, ’82LAW is the Presiding Justice of the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department. Prior to joining the bench, Acosta held various posts with the Legal Aid Society, including Attorney-in-Charge of the largest civil trial office, and with the New York City Commission on Human Rights. A proud graduate of Columbia College and Columbia Law School, Justice Acosta is the recipient of Columbia University’s Medal for Excellence and Columbia Law School’s Lawrence A. Wien Prize for Social Responsibility. In 2008, he was inducted into the Columbia University Athletics Hall of Fame, having earned four straight All-Eastern League (and All-Ivy League) honors and being twice named Pitcher of the Year in leading the Lions to two Ivy League championships. Over forty years after graduating from Columbia College, Acosta still holds Columbia records for career and season victories. He has served on the Columbia Board of Trustees since 2011, where he Chairs the Public Affairs Committee and oversees Athletics. Acosta also serves on the Board of the Columbia Alumni Association, is a member of the Dean’s Council of Columbia Law School, and was the keynote speaker at Columbia College’s 2020 Class Day. Justice Acosta is husband to Dr. Vasthi Reyes Acosta (’94, ’95TC) and father to Lucas Acosta and Zila Acosta-Grimes (’11CC, ’15LAW). Zila and her husband, Brian K. Grimes, Jr. (’11CC), are parents to Brian K. Grimes III and Tomás B. Grimes, prospective students for the Columbia College classes of 2041 and 2043, respectively. Return to Alumni Medalists ’79CC, ’82LAW Return to Alumni Medalists Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close