Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Awardees Devon M. Rupley Devon M. Rupley Devon M. Rupley, MD is an Obstetrician-Gynecologist at Columbia University Irving Medical Center and the NewYork-Presbyterian Allen Hospital. She received her BS in Government from Cornell University and her MD from the University of Michigan, completing her OB/GYN residency at Columbia University Medical Center. Prior to receiving her MD, she worked abroad in Ghana on maternal and child health issues. Dr. Rupley focuses on caring for patients with limited access to care and a history of trauma. She is the clinical lead for the EMBRACE program, which creates communities of support for obstetric patients. In 2020, she received the Vanneck Bailey Award. At the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Dr. Rupley centers her educational efforts on learner transitions, serving as a Foundations of Clinical Medicine Preceptor and as Co-Director of the Ready for Major Clinical Year course, which prepares medical students for the transition from classroom to bedside. Dr. Rupley also serves as Director of Resident OB/GYN education at the Allen Hospital. Return to Teaching Awards Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology Columbia Irving University Medical Center Return to Teaching Awards Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close