Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Communications Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders Main Navigation Degrees Show Extended Please use Google Chrome for the best view of the information B.A. Communication Disorders Catalog Information M.A. Communication Disorders Catalog Information Notice To Students re: Professional Licensure And Certification Communicative Disorders Certification Communicative Disorders Licensure Speech-Language Pathology Services Credential PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS Show Extended Application-Undergraduate Application-Graduate Catalog Facilities and Labs Financial Aid College of Communications Themed Housing Community Housing Testing CURRENT STUDENTS Show Extended Advising and Student Success Assistant Dean for Student Affairs Career Center Catalog Student Life and Engagement Commencement Facilities and Labs Final Exams Financial Aid Internship Scholarships Tutoring COMD 495, Internship in Communication Sciences and Disorders Major and Minor Add/Drop Forms ABOUT US Show Extended Contact Us Faculty & Staff Speech & Hearing Clinic A Commitment to Justice, Equity, and Respect for Diversity of all Kinds Student Outcome Data Department Accreditation Upcoming Event Make a Gift M.A. IN COMMUNICATIVE DISORDERS (degree name) The Master of Arts Program in Communication Sciences and Disorders, offered by the Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, provides an outstanding foundation for building a career as a speech-language pathologist. Expected time of study is 2 to 2.5 years. The outstanding strength of the CSD Program at California State University, Fullerton (CSUF) lies in its full-time and diverse faculty members, who are respected nationally for their expertise in the diagnosis and management of communication disorders. The program takes pride in offering graduate seminars that are taught by doctoral level faculty. We provide a wide range of clinical practica experience (child, adult, audiology, school and medical setting, transgender voice communication, and augmentative and alternative communication). A multicultural certificate option is available starting in Spring 2021. The CSD Program at CSUF also provides benefits through its relationship with the community for extended education and practica experience. We provide our students a strong association with a large number of hospitals, schools, and private practice clinics in the community. We have faculty members who are part of the university-wide Interdisciplinary Practice and Education (IPP/E) in addition to coordinating with the Center for Internships and Community-Engagement (CICE) to integrate service-learning and community-based research into their courses. Our program benefits from its association with national agencies that govern and serve the field. The master’s degree program in speech-language pathology at California State University, Fullerton is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, 220 Research Boulevard, #310, Rockville, MD 20850, 800-498-2071 or 301-296-5700. DEPARTMENT CHAIR Dr. HyeKyeung Seung College Park 285-13 Phone: (657) 278-1002 Email: hseung@fullerton.edu GRADUATE ADVISOR For additional information on the graduate program, an application, or to check the status of an application, please contact the graduate advisor Dr. Ying-Chiao Tsao. College Park, 420-29 Phone: (657) 278-5307 Email: ytsao@fullerton.edu Objectives The Master of Arts in Communication Sciences Disorders (CSD) is designed to: Ensure the pre-eminence of learning by addressing the knowledge and skill areas delineated in the appropriate ASHA Standards for the Certificate of Clinical Competence in Speech-Language Pathology; Provide a high-quality program by ongoing identification of the most appropriate student learning outcomes; Incorporate formative and summative assessment instruments to evaluate student achievement; and Create an environment where students have opportunities to succeed. resources Postbac Application - Application Process Timeline for Postbac - Frequently Asked Questions for Postbac - Instructions for NEW CSU APPLY -Application Checklist for CSD Postbac Program -The 12 CSD Prerequisites MA Application -Application Process Timeline for M.A -Frequently Asked Questions for M.A - Application Checklist for CSD M.A. Program - CSD M.A. Online Application Procedures -M.A. Admission Requirements -M.A. Admission Procedures - Fall 2021 M.A. Application Decision Letter Current MA Student - M.A. Program Handbook in CSD - Knowledge and Skills Acquisition (KASA) Program Special Features Program Requirements Credentials Scholarship Faculty Members Student Activities Career in Communicative Disorders Student Outcome Data Speech, Language and Hearing Clinic Strategic Plan 2021 Executive Summary This site is maintained by College of Communications. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact commwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.