skip to main content Close Menu San Diego State University Commencement 2022 Disability Services Campus Directory Information for… Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni facebook twitter youtube instagram plus Search Commencement Home Ceremonies by College Ceremony Schedule College of Arts and Letters Fowler College of Business College of Engineering College of Professional Studies and Fine Arts College of Sciences College of Health and Human Services Education/Faculty Advancement and Student Success Programs Graduates Registration Apparel Tickets Announcements and Photography Assembly and Processional Day at a Glance Diplomas Guests Plan Your Visit View Ceremony Broadcast / Online Transportation Disability Access Contact San Diego State University Commencement 2022 Menu Congratulations Graduates! Everything You Need to Know for Commencement Commencement 2022 Schedule Thursday, May 12 Location: Rollie Carrillo Quad 7 p.m. – SDSU Imperial Valley Friday, May 13 Location: Viejas Arena 9:30 a.m. – College of Sciences 3 p.m. – College of Arts and Letters Saturday, May 14 Location: Viejas Arena 8 a.m. – Fowler College of Business 1 p.m. – College of Health and Human Services 5:30 p.m. – College of Engineering Sunday, May 15 Location: Viejas Arena 9 a.m. – College of Education/Faculty Advancement and Student Success (IS3D Majors) 2 p.m. – College of Professional Studies and Fine Arts Graduates Find everything you need to know for commencement, including the day at a glance, how to get tickets and where to buy commencement apparel. Family and Guests Find helpful information for families and guests, such as where to stay and special travel discounts. Leave Your Legacy Be recognized as a distinguished donor at commencement! Donate $10 to the Aztec Proud Class of 2022 Legacy Scholarship and receive a red and white legacy cord to wear proudly on commencement day. Social Media Toolkit Connect with us on social media for a behind-the-scenes look Instagram Photos and videos on Instagram. Facebook Follow us on Facebook. Twitter Use #SDSUGrad and follow us on Twitter. COVID-19 Information Health Verification Aligned with California and San Diego County guidelines, effective April 1, separate vaccination and testing checks are no longer required at the door of SDSU-affiliated events, including Commencement 2022 at Viejas Arena. All attendees are encouraged to be fully vaccinated or to take and receive a recent negative COVID-19 test to attend the ceremony, but there is no separate verification or approval process that attendees need to complete prior to attendance. Facial Coverings Facial coverings are required for individuals who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19, and are recommended for those who are fully vaccinated. This information is subject to change based on new and evolving COVID-19 guidelines and recommendations. Bag Policy & Prohibited Items To expedite your entry into Viejas Arena and to reduce staff contact with guests' belongings, it is recommended that you do not bring a bag. If you must bring a bag, we highly suggest a clear plastic, vinyl or PVC tote bag. Bags can be no larger than 16"x 8" x 16". No backpacks are allowed. Please arrive early and be patient as we work to ensure a safe environment. All bags are subject to search prior to entrance and inside the facility. Prohibited items include, but are not limited to: large bags/backpacks, umbrellas, banners and signs larger than 20”x20”, balloons, weapons, alcoholic beverages, glass containers, noisemakers of any kind, non-service animals, skateboards and roller shoes. Visit the Viejas Arena A-Z Guide for more information. For additional information, visit the Plan Your Visit page. 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 619-594-5200 A-Z Index Campus Directory Maps Parking Employment Media Relations Give to SDSU WebPortal General Contact Network Status Strategic Plan Newsletter Sign Up Copyright © 2022 San Diego State University Requires SDSUid indicates links which require an SDSUid. Accessibility SDSU Digital Privacy Statement Feedback Document Reader Last Updated 5/15/22