Jump to main content User menu Community Auditing Continuing Education YouthCampus Policy for Minors Search form Search × Main menu About Us Campus Contacts Newsletter News & Events Upcoming Events Annual Events April ARTS Community & Staff Day Veterans Day Voting News for Neighbors Subscribe To Our Newsletter Serving Our Community Community Contributions Faculty & Staff Outreach Blood Drive Clothing Drive Volunteer Opportunities Holiday Outreach Cards of Thanks Community Threads Food Drive Financial Requests Resource Recovery Application Use of Facilities Lake Carnegie Photography on Campus Educational Opportunities Community Auditing Join the Program Registration Add, Drop, Refunds Calendar Class Resources Course Catalog and Auditor Only Series End of Semester Special Lecture and Reception Spring 2022 Reception and Lecture responses FAQs Attestation Form Continuing Education Program Admission Requirements Submitting an Application Online Application Online Readmission Form Tuition Community College Faculty Program Eligible Colleges Submitting an Application CCFP Online Application CCFP Readmission form Post Program Survey Programs for Youth Art Athletics Internships Literacy Mathematics Music SAT Prep Science Sustainability Theater Walking on Campus Main menu: sub-menu items Community Auditing Join the Program Registration Calendar Class Resources Course Catalog and Auditor Only Series End of Semester Special Lecture and Reception FAQs Attestation Form Continuing Education Program Community College Faculty Program Community Auditing Princeton University's Community Auditing Program (CAP) enables members of the community, high school graduates ages 18 and above, to audit, or sit in on, University lectures on a non-credit basis for $200 per course unless otherwise noted. Auditors must live in New Jersey or be within a 50 mile radius of Princeton University. On average, 150-175 classes are available each semester for auditing. No credit or certification is given for CAP classes. However, certified teachers currently working in New Jersey and Au Pairs may obtain written verification for classes they have audited. Program Rules All auditors are required to register for classes through the CAP office. All auditors must live no more than 50 miles from the Princeton University campus in Princeton, New Jersey. All auditors must be fully vaccinated and provide proof of their COVID-19 vaccination and booster record. All auditors must submit a weekly COVID-19 PCR test to be eligible to attend in-person classes. You may only attend classes that you are enrolled in. Those found attending a class they are not registered for will be suspended from the program for two full semesters beginning immediately. Inability to abide by this rule may lead to permanent prohibition from future participation in the Community Auditing Program. Auditors may register for 1 University class per semester. Auditor Only classes are not counted as University classes. Auditors do not take exams, join labs or precepts, or participate in class. All communication about the program and/or classes must go through the CAP office. Auditors are not permitted to contact professors or departments directly. Those ignoring this policy will be suspended from the program for two full semesters beginning immediately. Special Program Rules For 2021-2022 Community Auditing Program classes for the Spring 2022 semester will be held virtually. Auditors are prohibited from recording, downloading, copying, or sharing information presented during class. All information is the property of the professor and Princeton University. Opinions presented during lectures are subject to Chatham House Rules (chathamhouse.org). Identity and affiliation of the speaker may not be revealed on social media or in personal discussions. The primary mission of the University is to serve as a preeminent educational and research institution for fully enrolled students. Thus, auditors are to be as unobtrusive as possible in the classroom and considerate of the fully enrolled students by doing the following: Refrain from commenting or asking questions during the class; Refrain from speaking or emailing the professor unless the professor initiates the communication; Arrive to class on-time and refrain from exiting until the class has ended; Turn off cell phones and other electronic devices before entering the classroom; Those auditors who do not adhere to the above requirements will be asked to leave the program. If you have a question for a professor, kindly forward it to pucap@princeton.edu and we will contact the professor on your behalf. Questions? Please call (609) 258-0202 or send us an email by clicking email. Important Dates Course Registration - Fall: August 24-26, 2022 Refund Deadline - Fall: September 14, 2022, written notification required New Auditor Account Creation: May 31-June 6, 2022 New Auditor Activation: June 6-10, 2022, by appointment, weekdays only Office of Community and Regional Affairs 4 Mercer Street, Princeton, NJ, 08540 Phone: 609-258-3204 Facebook Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University