Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box University Relations and Marketing Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search The Oregon State Brand URM Staff Public Records Request Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift The Oregon State Brand URM Staff Public Records Request Office of the Vice President Oversees the university’s primary communications and marketing departments. The vice president also serves as a liaison with the OSU Foundation and its Board of Governors and Trustees, as well as with the OSU Alumni Association Board of Directors. Conference Services Enhances the university’s academic and research mission by providing full-service conference and workshop services, helping clients plan and produce events that inform, excite and attract attendees from around the world. LaSells Stewart Center The first performing arts venue and conference center on the campus of Oregon State University and is honored to be named the largest art gallery in the Willamette Valley. News and Research Communications Identifies news and produces stories about Oregon State University research, people and programs for local, national and international media. We also produce Terra, the university’s research magazine. Oregon State Productions Creates multimedia content for the university, including broadcast television footage, commercials, feature documentaries and web videos. We believe every project deserves cinematic treatment and bold storytelling. Printing and Mailing Services Offers communications solutions that are creative, flexible and efficient. Our expert staff and the latest in equipment and technology are ready to serve you. Trademark Licensing Builds brand awareness and protects the use of Oregon State University’s name and logos. We work with university departments, student organizations and the retail market to license university marks for a wide variety of products. University Events Strategizes, plans and implements high-impact events and special projects for internal and external audiences. We create outstanding experiences that generate goodwill for Oregon State University and enhance understanding and support for its teaching, research and outreach mission. University Marketing Promotes the Oregon State University brand through strategic marketing communications and creative services. We also manage university-level web content and social media networks. Contact Info University Relations and Marketing Contact URM Staff Corvallis, Oregon 97331-2155 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer