Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Ceremonies More Ceremonies School Ceremonies Baccalaureate Ceremony Speaker & Honorary Degrees History & Traditions Historical Commencement Notes Commencement Webcast & Multimedia Archives Graduates More Graduates Regalia Diplomas Other Related Information Faculty & Admin Guests More Guests Planning Your Visit FAQ Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Penn Home Search Search Close University of Pennsylvania Commencement - Class of 2022 Franklin Field on Monday, May 16, 2022 The University of Pennsylvania's 266th Commencement ceremony will take place on Monday, May 16, 2022, in Franklin Field at 10:15 a.m., and will be preceded by student and academic processions through campus. The ceremony will feature the conferral of degrees, the awarding of honorary degrees, greetings by University officials, and remarks by the Commencement speaker, Ken Burns, American documentary filmmaker, recipient of 16 Emmy Awards and 2 Academy Award nominations. Families and guests are welcome to attend, tickets are not required for the ceremony. Speaker and Honorary Degree Recipients The speaker and honorary degree recipients for The University of Pennsylvania's 266th Commencement ceremony include Ken Burns, Mary Frances Berry, Atul Gawande, Amy Gutmann, Carla D. Hayden, George E. Lewis, Margaret H. Marshall, and Edward Witten (see slideshow.) See Full Biographies Ken Burns American documentary filmmaker Recipient of 16 Emmy Awards and 2 Academy Award nominations 2022 Commencement Speaker and Honorary Doctor of Arts More about Ken Burns Mary Frances Berry Historian, author, public servant, advocate for social justice Geraldine R. Segal Professor Emerita of American Social Thought, History, and Africana Studies, University of Pennsylvania Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters More about Mary Frances Berry Atul Gawande General and endocrine surgeon, author Head of Global Health, U.S. Agency for International Development Honorary Doctor of Sciences More about Atul Gawande Amy Gutmann U.S. Ambassador to Germany President Emerita, University of Pennsylvania Honorary Doctor of Laws More about Amy Gutmann Carla D. Hayden Librarian, educator, administrator 14th Librarian of Congress Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters More about Carla D. Hayden George E. Lewis American composer, musicologist, and trombonist Edwin H. Case Professor of American Music, Columbia University Honorary Doctor of Music More about George E. Lewis Margaret H. Marshall Lawyer, jurist Chief Justice, Retired, Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts Senior Counsel, Choate Hall & Stewart LLP Honorary Doctor of Laws More about Margaret H. Marshall Edward Witten Physicist, mathematician Charles Simonyi Professor in the School of Natural Sciences, Institute for Advanced Study Honorary Doctor of Sciences More about Edward Witten Webcast of Penn’s Commencement Ceremony Family members and friends who are unable to attend Penn’s 266th Commencement may watch or listen to a live webcast of the ceremony. Coverage from Franklin Field will begin at 9:00 a.m. on Monday, May 16, 2022. For the streaming webcast, go to the Commencement Webcast & Multimedia Archives page. Webcast Commencement Ceremony Information - Class of 2022 Learn about the ceremony School Ceremonies - Class of 2022 Learn about your school-based ceremony Frequently Asked Questions - Class of 2022 Answers to many of your questions For The Media Visit For The Media page 2022 Commencement Program Flipbook Download the brochure of the University of Pennsylvania Commencement 2022. (PDF) Commencement Ceremony for the Class of 2020 and the Class of 2021 Master's and Doctoral graduates We are pleased to announce the in-person Commencement Ceremony for the Class of 2020 and the Class of 2021 Master's and Doctoral graduates! The Penn community looks forward to this long-awaited celebration on Sunday, May 22 from 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. at Franklin Field. Please visit the 2020-2021 Commencement page for information about the ceremony. Visit YouTube for full ceremony video. >> Learn More >> Address & Phone 1 College Hall, Room 211 Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 898-7006 Event Contact Office of the University Secretary Media Contact Email Amanda Mott Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000