Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Tickets Tickets Other Ceremony Viewing Options All our ceremonies will be live streamed for guests to watch you walk across the stage. More Ways to View the Ceremony Spring 2022 Seating Policy Tickets are not required for guest entry. Seating is on a first-come, first-served basis. ADA seating is located throughout the venue and is available on a first-come, first-served basis. Wheelchair seats will require a ticket for them plus one companion. Guests in those areas will have to show a ticket upon request but will not need a ticket to enter the venue. Clear bag entry policy applies to all guests and graduates. The Spring 2022 ceremony is a rain or shine event. Ceremony Seating Seating Policy Georgia Tech is looking forward to celebrating its graduates and welcoming their guests to campus. Tickets are not longer required for guest entry. Seating will be available on a first-come, first-served basis throughout the venue. Suites will not be open during the ceremony. All guests and students are subject to the venue’s clear bag entry policy. Gates will open one hour prior to ceremony start. ADA Seating Policy pending Ticketing Frequently Asked Questions Will guest seating be physically distanced? Attendees may choose to sit anywhere they’d like within the open sections of the stadium. Based on the number of expected attendees, this should allow plenty of room for those who choose to distance themselves from others to do so by choosing seats farther away from other attendees. My guests are not comfortable sitting in a crowd. Bobby Dodd Stadium provides ample room for our guests. While certain sections near the field may fill, guests will be able to socially distance themselves in higher sections in the east and west stands. Are all the sections open? Are suites open? Most of our venue seating will be open. View our updated seating chart on this page (posting late April) to see which sections are open. Suites are not open for this event. Will general admission fill up? Do I need to arrive early to guarantee a seat? No, we will have plenty of seating for anyone who would like to attend our Commencement ceremonies. Bobby Dodd Stadium has a maximum capacity of over 50,000 seats and we anticipate being far below this threshold. Does someone with ADA seats need to show their ticket for entry? No, no one will have to show a ticket for entry into the venue. As we have a limited number of wheelchair seats in the venue, we will ask guests seated in these seats to show their ticket to ushers upon request. Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN