Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Communications Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Dean's Message Our People Our Foundations Our Facilities Our Programs Our Alumni Connect with us Departments & Degrees Show Extended Cinema and Television Arts Department of Cinema and Television Arts B.A., Cinema and Television Arts Critical Studies Industry Management Production Screenwriting M.F.A., Screenwriting Minor, Cinema and Television Arts Communications Department of Communications B.A., Communications Advertising Entertainment and Tourism Communications Journalism Public Relations M.A., Communications Mass Communications Research and Theory Professional Communications Tourism and Entertainment Minors Advertising Journalism Public Relations Human Communication Studies Department of Human Communication Studies B.A., Communication Studies Argumentation and Debate Communication Studies (General) Intercultural Communication Interpersonal Communication Organizational Communication M.A., Communication Studies Minor, Communication Studies Communication Sciences and Disorders Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders B.A. Communication Disorders Catalog B.A. Information M.A. Communication Disorders Catalog M.A. Information Other Notice To Students re: Professional licensure And Certification Communicative Disorders Certification Communicative Disorders Licensure Speech-Language Pathology Services Credential Prospective Students Show Extended Application-Undergraduate Application-Graduate Catalog Facilities and Labs Financial Aid College of Communications Themed Housing Community Housing Testing Current Students Show Extended Student Success Center Career Center Catalog Student Life and Engagement Commencement Facilities and Labs Final Exams Financial Aid Internship Scholarships Make a Gift Contact us Dean's Message Dean’s Message Archivesopen/close sub-navigation January 2021 September 2020 June 2020 January 2020 Past College Deans Dean's Message College Theme for 2022: Renewal Vision: A democratic society in which people from all backgrounds can participate fully in civic discourse, building community, and enhancing social capital. Mission: Preparing communicators to advance a democratic society by undertaking critical academic inquiry, serving the community, and engaging in ethical and professional practice across all communications industries and in related fields. From the Dean: January 2022 The past few years have given us the opportunity to reflect on what we truly value, while reconsidering how we live out those values in ways that are authentic to ourselves, helpful to others, and meaningful to the society that we all share. For this calendar year, I’ve chosen the theme of “renewal,” in light of input received from faculty and staff at our all-College retreat last August and throughout the fall semester. It’s clear that, after years of continued uncertainties and upheavals in so many areas of our lives, we all need to find ways to renew both our commitments and ourselves. First, I challenge each of us to recommit to our longstanding College mission of advancing democratic society. In the face of increasing threats to voter rights around the country, we need to renew our focus on the fundamental principle of a representative democracy – the right to free expression via the ballot box. In an age of more-pointed political partisanship, we need to renew our commitment to civil civic discourse, not merely in the abstract, but concretely in our quotidian practice. At a time of rampant misinformation spread via digital media platforms, we need to renew our ability to balance individual free speech with a social responsibility to purvey accurate and truthful information. Second, I exhort us to examine the ways in which we must renew our curriculum, pedagogy, scholarship, and service. Let’s continue to update our course content, curriculum architecture, teaching approaches, and grading methods, so that our students are prepared for both their professional futures and their civic duties. Let’s think about our research and how we communicate it, so that we both reaffirm our desire to address pressing societal issues at the nexus of communications and humanity, and reinvent ourselves as public scholars who make research-based insights accessible to non-academics. Let’s use our on- and off-campus service activities to model civic participation and to support diversity, equity, inclusion and social justice. Last and not least, I encourage us to reflect thoughtfully and to dig deeply into what renews each of us individually. For some of us, this personal renewal might mean a re-dedication to more rest and healthier habits. For others, this may entail remembering what brings us personal joy and professional fulfillment. Perhaps, a personal renewal means a recalibration of our goals and a redefinition of how we measure progress toward them. Or, we may find that true renewal requires embracing ourselves holistically to regain our personal equilibrium and sense of self. The reality is that renewing ourselves individually is necessary to nurture collectively the renewal of our community, in which many members feel exhausted. I sincerely hope that this year of renewal will bring us more peace, greater wisdom, and a strengthened College, unified in our mission in service to democracy. Bey-Ling Sha, Ph.D., APR Dean This site is maintained by College of Communications. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact commwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.