Skip to main content Columbia University Home Search form Search Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Volunteering Donate Home Our Services Welcome to JEEP, Our Jobs & Education Empowerment Project Welcome to JEEP, Our Jobs & Education Empowerment Project Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Support CI Today! Your support allows us to bring high-quality services to the Morningside Heights and Washington Heights communities. Learn More Community Impact’s Jobs and Education Empowerment Project (JEEP) provides a full range of comprehensive services to the adult participants looking to improve their professional and educational prospects. As always, our classes are free of charge and open to adult (18 and older only) residents, of Upper Manhattan and the city at large. JEEP is our vehicle for delivering Adult Education services to you. Starting with a foundation of ESOL and High School Equivalency classes, our program will see you through to college enrollment and job placement. Situated in the heart of Columbia University, students, faculty, staff and members of the community at large are committed to seeing you succeed and achieve your goals. JEEP is your road to success. Click the links to the right to find out more or to pre-register for classes. Clases disponibles en español también. 105 Earl Hall, 2980 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1492 | [email protected] Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Volunteering Donate Follow us Facebook Twitter Copyright © Copyright Community Impact at Columbia University Site by Site by Bureau for Good