Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Communications Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Dean's Message Our People Our Foundations Our Facilities Our Programs Our Alumni Connect with us Departments & Degrees Show Extended Cinema and Television Arts Department of Cinema and Television Arts B.A., Cinema and Television Arts Critical Studies Industry Management Production Screenwriting M.F.A., Screenwriting Minor, Cinema and Television Arts Communications Department of Communications B.A., Communications Advertising Entertainment and Tourism Communications Journalism Public Relations M.A., Communications Mass Communications Research and Theory Professional Communications Tourism and Entertainment Minors Advertising Journalism Public Relations Human Communication Studies Department of Human Communication Studies B.A., Communication Studies Argumentation and Debate Communication Studies (General) Intercultural Communication Interpersonal Communication Organizational Communication M.A., Communication Studies Minor, Communication Studies Communication Sciences and Disorders Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders B.A. Communication Disorders Catalog B.A. Information M.A. Communication Disorders Catalog M.A. Information Other Notice To Students re: Professional licensure And Certification Communicative Disorders Certification Communicative Disorders Licensure Speech-Language Pathology Services Credential Prospective Students Show Extended Application-Undergraduate Application-Graduate Catalog Facilities and Labs Financial Aid College of Communications Themed Housing Community Housing Testing Current Students Show Extended Student Success Center Career Center Catalog Student Life and Engagement Commencement Facilities and Labs Final Exams Financial Aid Internship Scholarships Make a Gift Contact us Upcoming Events Past Eventsopen/close sub-navigation LCI Alumni Awards Night Student Journalism Symposium STUDENT JOURNALISM SYMPOSIUM On Saturday, Sept. 19, at 10 a.m. PT, the College of Communications at Cal State Fullerton will host a student journalism symposium on covering elections. The keynote speaker will be the 2020-2021 President of the Society of Professional Journalists Matthew Hall, editorial and opinion director for The San Diego Union Tribune. The keynote will be followed at 11 a.m. PT by a panel of journalists sharing their experiences and tips on covering elections, from local to national. Confirmed panelists are Arit John, staff writer with the Los Angeles Times; Laura Barrón-López, national political reporter for POLITICO; Quinn Owen, reporter/producer with ABC News; and Vania Patino, reporter with CBS-affiliate station KFDA NewsChannel 10 in Amarillo, Texas. A post-event hour for informal networking will be provided 12-1 p.m. PT for interested participants to meet working journalists, as well as other student journalists and journalism students from across the state. Join us and meet the future of journalism! To support this free event, you can make a gift to our First Amendment Fund, which supports College events, student activities and faculty research related to the First Amendment. Thank you for supporting our efforts to educate the next generation of journalists in our collective goal of preserving freedom of the press in our democracy. Twitter handles: @SDuncovered @aritbenie @lbarronlopez @quinn_owen @vania_patino @DrSha . This site is maintained by College of Communications. Last Published 4/25/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact commwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.