Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Archive Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... COMMENCEMENT Tulane Commencement Ordering Graduation Photos To order photos, please visit www.FotoOrder.com. Type in your ceremony name in the Event Search box at the top of the page, and then click on the photo(s) to order. From the pop and sizzle of fireworks to the buzz and beat of New Orleans Jazz, Tulane's commencement is an experience unlike any other. In New Orleans and at Tulane we march to the beat of our own drum, and that spirit is infused into every part of the Unified Commencement Ceremony. The Unified Ceremony brings together all Tulane grads, from undergraduate to graduate and professional students to celebrate the pomp and circumstance of the day, which includes the procession of graduates and faculty, the keynote address, and the conferral of degrees. Graduates also participate in their school's individual ceremony, where they walk across the stage and have their picture taken. Save the Date! Future commencement dates are pending until final approval. Pencil these in for future celebrations. Saturday May 20, 2023 Saturday May 18, 2024 Saturday May 17, 2025 Past keynote speakers in recent years include U.S. Presidents President George H. W. Bush and William J. Clinton; award-winning actress Helen Mirren; news anchors Hoda Kotb and Anderson Cooper; jazz musician Wynton Marsalis; comedian Ellen DeGeneres; and His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama. The practice of wearing caps and gowns to signify a graduate’s educational passage from one level to the next extends back to medieval universities. Commencement News U.S. Marine Corps commandant commissions 18 officers at joint ceremony Under the Oaks 2022 Class of 2022 praised for persistence at Unified Commencement in Yulman Stadium Love of the legal profession started early for law review editor View More Commencement News Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5210 tugrad@tulane.edu News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University