Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Volunteer We encourage faculty and officers of administration to volunteer at events during Commencement Week, especially on Commencement Day. Please visit the Volunteer page for more information. University Commencement Academic Procession All Columbia University faculty and officers of administration are invited to march in the academic procession at the University Commencement ceremony. Participants in the academic procession should enter campus through an upper campus gate and assemble at the designated areas in Low Memorial Library by 10:00 a.m. on the morning of University Commencement. The academic procession will follow the degree candidate procession at around 10:15 a.m., formally beginning the exercises for the University Commencement ceremony. Full academic attire is required. Learn more about regalia. The deadline to register to participate in University Commencement on Wednesday, May 18, 2022, is Monday, May 16, 2022. The deadline to register to participate in the Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 on Thursday, May 19, 2022, is Wednesday, May 18, 2022. Ticket Information If you would like to request tickets for school ceremonies, including Class Days or graduation ceremonies, please contact the individual school. Space for the University Commencement ceremony is extremely limited. Seats on campus are reserved for ticket holders and degree candidates only. Navigating Campus Movement around campus will be restricted during Commencement Week. On the morning of Commencement Day, all faculty and staff must show a University ID to enter campus, including those participating in the academic procession. Temporary staff members must have a photo ID and a printed letter on Columbia University stationery authorizing campus access. Please reference Campus Maps to navigate campus during Commencement Day. For those planning to drive or park near campus during Commencement Week, please note that many streets surrounding the Morningside campus will be closed to both traffic and parking by the New York City Police Department. Columbia University is committed to making the events and activities of Commencement Week accessible to all guests. Disability Services coordinates these efforts for all individual school ceremonies, the Baccalaureate Service, and University Commencement. Helpful Links Webcast Announcements School Ceremonies Schedule of Events Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Commencement Office Questions? We're available by email. E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs RESOURCE HIGHLIGHTS School Ceremonies Each school honors its graduates with a separate graduation ceremony Disability Services Learn how we facilitate equal access for students with disabilities Frequently Asked Questions Find answers to frequently asked questions and helpful tips about Commencement Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close