Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Communications Main navigation Home About About Us Meet the Team Careers Brand Brand Standards and Guidelines Our Voice Our Look Licensing Licensing and Trademarks Campus Resources External Communications About Media and PR Op-Ed and News Pitching Social Media State Outreach Internal Communications Campus Communications Campus Calendar On-Campus Advertising Campus Communicator Contacts Events at Georgia Tech About Event Planning Event Coordinator Network (External Link) Georgia Tech Special Events (External Link) Photo and Video About Photography and Videography Photo and Video Guides Scheduling a Headshot Websites Website Development Content Strategy Hiring Website Vendors Meeting and Training Opportunities Meetings and Training Presentation Archives (GT Account Required) Media and Vendors Media Inquiries Promotional Inquiries User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Op-Ed and News Pitching Breadcrumb Home Refer to the guidelines below to determine the best outlet for your story. However, before pitching stories to the media, we encourage you to contact our media relations team with your story ideas. National News News should be timely and relevant to a significant number of people. Will the story have impact? Does it affect a lot of people or a limited few? Does it have emotional appeal? Does it advance Georgia Tech’s strategic goals? Qualities of national news stories: They relate to broad interests. They have multimedia potential – still images, video, and animations. They add something substantive and relevant to the national discussion.     Stories that advance Georgia Tech’s strategic plan. Stories that advance the goal of diversifying the research program. They demonstrate the societal benefits of research. They contain verifiable facts. They contain verifiable research based on publication in refereed journals or presentation at major conferences (releases should be developed ahead of publication or presentation dates). They rely on reputable and objective sources. Local News Local news stories, like national media, should be timely, advance Tech’s strategic plan, and relate to a significant number of people. They should also be stories that relate to or reflect the following:  Connection to Georgia Tech. Georgia Tech’s economic impact on the state. Human interest to Georgians. Georgia Tech’s commitment to service and community. Op-Eds Opinion and editorial pieces should meet the publication’s standards in terms of length. The publication may also edit or fact-check the submitted piece.   Qualities of a successful op-ed include: Timely and relevant. Expresses a clear opinion. Reaches a conclusion or issues a call to action. Provides facts to back up the argument. The author is identified.  The author is an expert in the field. Style is tailored to the publication (news, academic, sports, etc.) Has been proofread. External Communications Media and Public Relations Op-Ed and News Pitching Social Media State Outreach Contact For media and PR assistance, contact our Media Relations Team. Editorial Planning Mondays at 3 p.m. Communicators across campus meet every week to discuss stories and projects and how we can amplify their impact. For more information: Tamara Wilder Production Coordinator tamara.wilder@comm.gatech.edu Institute Communications Georgia Institute of Technology 177 North Avenue NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0181 404.894.0870 Institute Communications Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education