Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Communications Department of Communications Main Navigation Degrees Show Extended B.A. in Communications Advertising Checklist Entertainment and Tourism Checklist Journalism Checklist Public Relations Checklist M.A. in Communications Tourism and Entertainment Checklist Mass Communications Research and Theory Checklist Professional Communications Checklist Minors Advertising Checklist Journalism Checklist Public Relations Checklist Certificates Digital Media | Photo Comm | Radio-Audio | Spanish Media Prospective Students Show Extended Application-Undergraduate Application-Graduate Catalog Facilities and Labs Financial Aid College of Communications Themed Housing Community Housing Testing Current Students Show Extended Spring 2022 Advising Specialties and Faculty Office Hours Advising and Student Success Assistant Dean for Student Affairs Career Center Catalog Student Life and Engagement Commencement Facilities and Labs Final Exams Financial Aid Internship Portfolium (COMM student ePortfolio) Scholarships Equipment Checkout Major and Minor Add/Drop Forms Graduate Program About us Show Extended Accreditation Contact Us Faculty & Staff Centers & Clinics Department Message Make a Gift DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS (COMM) M.A. IN COMMUNICATIONS For more than 35 years, the department has been committed to linking education and the communication professions with the focus on graduate program quality and flexibility. The Master of Arts (MA) degree is designed to provide advanced study in communications theory and research, and offers an opportunity to integrate all aspects of the profession into a single degree. Students select courses from advertising, entertainment and tourism, journalism and public relations for a truly interdisciplinary degree. We also offer students the option to incorporate a limited number of courses from other master's degree programs such as business, psychology and public administration. The program prepares the graduate to apply advanced communication concepts, research development skills, and theories relevant to the use of communications media for a wide variety of purposes. Such study may serve those whose careers involve the use of print, electronic and online media to inform, instruct and persuade. Communications skills are highly applicable to a wide range of careers in business, industry, government, education, and the mass media. The M. A. in Communications offers flexible options for study and may be pursued on a part-time or full-time basis. Most study plan courses are offered in the late afternoon or evening hours. Course work can be completed in as little as three semesters. A thesis requires an additional two semesters, and a project one additional semester. This Web site offers information on requirements, deadlines, curriculum, and other information to get you started earning your M.A at CSUF. Additional information is available the University Website and the University Office of Graduate Studies. FLEXIBLE STUDY PLANS Completing your master’s degree in communications provides you with the critical thinking and knowledge you need to compete and excel in media professions. Use our extensive networking system to enter a media profession, or use your professional degree to advance into executive or management positions at your present workplace. You can also use your master’s degree to teach in the community college system or to enter a Ph.D. program by writing a thesis. See the flexible study plans webpage for details about the concentration in Mass Communications Research and Theory, Professional Communications and Communications in Tourism and Entertainment. LINKS Admission Requirements Application Process & Information Concentrations: The Mass Communications Research and Theory concentration is intended for students who ultimately wish to pursue a Ph.D. or teach at the community college level. The Professional Communications concentration is designed for those currently working in the communications profession as well as for students interested in pursuing careers in the industry. The Communications in Tourism and Entertainment concentration offers a foundation in communications for professionals working in tourism and entertainment who want to enhance their knowledge of communications as it applies to the industry. Location and Quality Alumni Wall of Fame Fast Facts Graduate Faculty Graduate Forms Graduate Handbook EQUIPMENT RESERVATION Online Equipment Reservation Stockroom Contract CTVA Equipment Class Availability COMM Equipment Availability Contact us For specific information regarding curricular issues or academic advising, contact: Dr. Cynthia King Professor & Graduate Studies Coordinator Department of Communications California State University, Fullerton Fullerton, CA 92834-6846 Tel: (657) 278-7631 cking@fullerton.edu General questions about the program can be directed to the graduate program assistant, Cristina Prado, at crprado@fullerton.edu. This site is maintained by College of Communications. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact commwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.