Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Student RSVP for Commencement RSVP for Commencement The RSVP period for Spring 2022 is Feb. 21 through April 1. An RSVP is required to participate in the ceremony. RSVP for Commencement How to RSVP Georgia Tech students will RSVP for the ceremony through Marching Order. RSVP for Commencement Using the link above, follow these steps to complete your registration: Under “New Users” click "Please click here to register.” Enter your email address in the appropriate field. Spring 2022 Graduates - Register with your Georgia Tech email address. If there is an issue with email address authentication, be sure to try any aliases you may have. Late Walkers - Register with your Georgia Tech email address unless you registered a different email on our Commencement website. If there is an issue with email address authentication, be sure to try any aliases you may have. You will receive an email from Marching Order prompting you to create a password. Login and complete the form. Confirmation of Your RSVP The Commencement Office is not able to confirm any RSVP submissions. Students should check their mail for a confirmation email from Marching Order. Delay Your Walk Any 2020 or 2021 graduate who would like to return to campus to participate in the Spring 2022 ceremony must register with the Commencement Office by March 18. This is not an RSVP to the ceremony. Late Walk Registration Summer 2022 Graduates Summer 2022 graduates with two classes or less remaining and in good academic standing will have the option to apply for an early walk in Spring 2022. Early Walk Registration Confirmation of Your Diploma Mailing Address Students are encouraged to check their diploma mailing address in OSCAR before May. Please email diplomas@registrar.gatech.edu if your mailing address needs to be updated. Update your mailing address Have a question? Email the Commencement Office at events@comm.gatech.edu with your issue and remember to include your name, degree level, and GT ID for faster responses. Email us your question Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN