Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Become a Volunteer Student Volunteers Programs and Initiatives Health and Wellness Pan-African Studies Community Education Program Workforce Initiatives Center for Community Partnerships Community Health Workers Workforce Development Training Programs Workforce Education and Lifelong Learning Adult Literacy Training Programs Youth Programs Scholarships About News Community Staff Contact Temple University View community news Office of Community Affairs and Engagement Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Learn More Office of Community Affairs and Engagement Temple’s Office of Community Affairs and Engagement promotes adult education, community engagement and volunteerism. Learn More Office of Community Affairs and Engagement Learn More Learn about PASCEP Pan-African Studies Community Education Program at Temple University offers adults an opportunity to learn new skills. Learn More Learn More Community Partnerships Temple's Center for Community Partnerships works to build community capacity through professional, workforce and youth development projects. Learn More Community Partnerships Learn More Office of Community Affairs and Engagement Temple’s Office of Community Affairs and Engagement promotes adult education, community engagement and volunteerism. Learn More Office of Community Affairs and Engagement Learn More Learn about PASCEP Pan-African Studies Community Education Program at Temple University offers adults an opportunity to learn new skills. Learn More Learn More Community Partnerships Temple's Center for Community Partnerships works to build community capacity through professional, workforce and youth development projects. Learn More Community Partnerships $82M Supporting healthcare in North Philadelphia $1.2M In grant funding to support education and employment programs for Philadelphians $1M Dedicated to the 20/20 Scholarship program for local students since 2011 Single row carousel Latest Stories See All Stories President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” 12th President; Jason Wingard President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” May 10 A sold out crowd of Philadelphia business leaders and executives looked on as Dr. Jason Wingard, president of Temple University, and Maura Shenker, director of Temple's... The Ambler Field Station welcomes high school students through field research activities The Ambler Field Station welcomes high school students through field research activities The Ambler Field Station welcomes high school students through field research activities Community The Ambler Field Station welcomes high school students through field research activities April 19 The Ambler Field Station welcomes high school students through field research activities Read the story keywords .sh_embed {... Kenny Garrett, a Grammy award-winning musician, performs at Temple Kenny Garrett, a Grammy award-winning musician, performs at Temple Kenny Garrett, a Grammy award-winning musician, performs at Temple Community Engagement Kenny Garrett, a Grammy award-winning musician, performs at Temple March 03 Early this month, WRTI and Temple University presented a free live jazz concert at the Temple Performing Arts Center headlined by Kenny Garrett, a Grammy award-winning... Visiting North Philadelphia’s Church of the Advocate Visiting North Philadelphia’s Church of the Advocate Visiting North Philadelphia’s Church of the Advocate Church of the Advocate Visiting North Philadelphia’s Church of the Advocate February 22 Visiting North Philadelphia's Church of the Advocate Read the story. keywords .sh_embed { position: relative; height: auto;... Temple senior works to preserve a neighborhood staple Temple senior works to preserve a neighborhood staple Temple senior works to preserve a neighborhood staple Historic preservation Temple senior works to preserve a neighborhood staple February 22 Tyler A. Ray, Class of 2022, hopes to use his education to help preserve his North Philadelphia neighborhood starting with one of its greatest gems: The Church of the... Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Community Affairs and Engagement Entertainment and Community Education Center (ECEC) 1509 Cecil B. Moore Ave., Second FloorPhiladelphia, PA 19121 USA 215-204-7913 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.