Skip to main content College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Communication Menu Close About Us Contact Us Giving Undergraduate B.A. in Communication Accelerated Bachelor’s-Master’s in Communication Science Communication Minor Advising Scholarships Internships What Can I Do With My Degree? Add or Change a Major Graduate M.S. in Communication CRDM Ph.D. Program PCMS Certificate Research and Engagement Leadership in Public Science Digital Humanities PCOST Mobile Gaming Faculty Awards People News Events About Us About Us Contact Us Giving Undergraduate Undergraduate B.A. in Communication Accelerated Bachelor’s-Master’s in Communication Science Communication Minor Advising Scholarships Internships What Can I Do With My Degree? Add or Change a Major Graduate Graduate M.S. in Communication CRDM Ph.D. Program PCMS Certificate Research and Engagement Research and Engagement Leadership in Public Science Digital Humanities PCOST Mobile Gaming Faculty Awards People People News News Events Messages and Media in Context We explore and improve how the world communicates, helping to address the grand challenges of our time. Undergrad programs Grad programs News More stories Rising Starr Political science and communication double-major Starr Gibens is an expert at putting thought into action. The first-generation college graduate came to NC State with a list of what she wanted to accomplish, and she has done so much more as a leader, community member, scholarship recipient and advocate for her fellow students. Study Finds Realism a Key Factor in Driving Engagement with Virtual Reality Videos Research from communication professor Alice Cheng finds that realism is a key factor in determining whether viewers engage with virtual reality (VR) videos — and that engagement is itself a key factor in determining whether viewers are interested in watching VR videos in the future. Study Abroad Spotlight: Meet Katie Gray While studying abroad this spring, communication major Katie Gray provided a big boost to NC State Prague’s communication team. What Can I Do With My Degree? Our graduates work for top organizations across the globe. They manage public relations campaigns, work in front of and behind the camera, handle publicity and event planning for major corporations and more. Explore career paths One of the things I love about NC State is that they’re not trying to build perfectionists. They’re trying to build a community of doers. Jess Ekstrom ’13 Founder, Headbands of Hope Scholarships Search for scholarships and learn how to apply. Explore opportunities Advising Connect with your advisor to register for classes and explore new opportunities. Find an advisor Join our community Undergraduate Admissions You’ll apply through the NC State admissions office. Learn how to apply and get started. How to apply Graduate Admissions You’ll apply through NC State’s Graduate School. Learn how to apply and get started. How to apply Add or Change Your Major Are you interested in adding a second major? We can help. How to start the process Department of Communication Home 201 Winston Hall Campus Box 8104 Raleigh, NC 27695-8104 919-515-9736 Communication Home Contact Us Faculty and Staff Directory News Events Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.