Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Communications Main navigation Home About About Us Meet the Team Careers Brand Brand Standards and Guidelines Our Voice Our Look Licensing Licensing and Trademarks Campus Resources External Communications About Media and PR Op-Ed and News Pitching Social Media State Outreach Internal Communications Campus Communications Campus Calendar On-Campus Advertising Campus Communicator Contacts Events at Georgia Tech About Event Planning Event Coordinator Network (External Link) Georgia Tech Special Events (External Link) Photo and Video About Photography and Videography Photo and Video Guides Scheduling a Headshot Websites Website Development Content Strategy Hiring Website Vendors Meeting and Training Opportunities Meetings and Training Presentation Archives (GT Account Required) Media and Vendors Media Inquiries Promotional Inquiries User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Promotional Inquiries Breadcrumb Home In some cases, the Institute will participate in the activities that give us the opportunity to share common experiences and leverage the experience gained to the advantage of Georgia Tech. It is important that Georgia Tech avoids any conflict of interest and ensures that every procurement process meets state requirements. Promotional Inquires Include: Case studies. Profiles featuring Georgia Tech and the products or services that have been tested by the Institute. News releases announcing Georgia Tech’s usage of a particular product, vendor, or service. Video interviews requesting comments by Georgia Tech personnel. Company newsletters, online websites. All promotional inquiries, including those for case study participation or testing activities, should be emailed to tracey.reeves@comm.gatech.edu for review on an individual basis. Restrictions As a public university, neither the Institute nor its employees are permitted to endorse private, commercial, or for-profit companies, services, vendors, or products. This policy is based on Georgia constitutional interpretations advising that providing an endorsement can appear as something of value and, as such, can be considered a gratuity. In addition, the appearance of providing direct or implied endorsements can be interpreted as a particular legal relationship with a company. State agencies are not permitted to enter into joint ventures and partnerships and, as such, Georgia Tech must avoid these relationships. The Institute is often required to bid out many contracts, and it should avoid appearing to act in a biased manner or in a manner that would create a conflict of interest. Allowed: Statements of fact that the product or service is used. Reports stating the results of a product or service tested by the Institute. Not Allowed: Statements or direct quotes from Georgia Tech employees providing an opinion or a review about a product or service used by the Institute. Usage of the Georgia Tech logo or official mark or image of a campus icon such as the Tech Tower, Ramblin' Wreck, Buzz, and others. Request Submissions All promotional inquiries, including those for case study participation or testing activities, should be directed to Tracey Reeves at tracey.reeves@comm.gatech.edu for review. Each request is evaluated on an individual basis. The Institute is not mandated to participate in these activities. Benefits to the Institute’s reputation will be weighed in each case, as will the time required by individuals who are asked to participate. Any required release forms should be reviewed by the Office of Legal Affairs. Legal may be consulted for advice at any time during a review of the case study. The CIO/CTO should also review the material if the case study or other information involves technology, software, or a related service. Media and Vendors Media Inquiries Promotional Inquiries Contact Tracey Reeves Associate Vice President of Research, Academics, and Campus and Culture Communications tracey.reeves@comm.gatech.edu Institute Communications Georgia Institute of Technology 177 North Avenue NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0181 404.894.0870 Institute Communications Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education