Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Awardees Thomas W. Cornacchia Thomas W. Cornacchia Thomas W. Cornacchia ’85CC was a four-year member of the heavyweight rowing team in the early 1980s, and had an impressive career in finance, rising to become a partner at Goldman Sachs before retiring in 2017. Throughout his years as an alumnus, Cornacchia never forgot his alma mater. He was on the College Board of Visitors for over 13 years, including serving as Vice Chair for two years and Chair for three years. Cornacchia was part of several key initiatives on the Board including Columbia College’s Strategic Plan. Cornacchia currently serves as a member of the Core to Commencement Committee, a fundraising committee that has helped to raise $700M for the students of Columbia College and the faculty who teach them. He is a generous supporter of the College, including establishing the Thomas and Nancy Cornacchia Family Scholarship. In 2013, the College presented Cornacchia with a John Jay Award for his distinguished professional achievements. He also serves as a member of the King’s Crown Rowing Association and the Rowing Advisory Committee and established a key program endowment for Columbia Rowing in 2011. That endowment supports all three rowing programs: heavyweight, lightweight, and women’s team. Cornacchia made significant gifts to establish the Leadership Fund for Student-Athletes, vital to the holistic 360-degree approach Columbia Athletics takes to support success through wellbeing. He also serves on the Athletics Leadership Committee, and was honored as a Varsity C Alumni Award winner in 2014. Cornacchia is also a member of the Cancer Advisory Council at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center and has been a tremendous supporter of their efforts. Cornacchia and his wife Nancy live in Darien, CT and have five children, two of whom are Columbia graduates, William ’17CC, and Victoria “Tory” ’19CC. Return to Alumni Medalists ’85CC Return to Alumni Medalists Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close