Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Commencement Spring 2022 President's Welcome On behalf of our entire academic community, welcome to the 262nd Commencement of the Georgia Institute of Technology. This is a very special time for our graduates and their families, as they mark the end of one journey and the start of another. Throughout our history, generations of Yellow Jackets have set themselves apart as some of the brightest and most innovative individuals in the world. We are proud to celebrate their achievements. Ask any Georgia Tech graduate and they will proudly tell you of the hard work and dedication required to earn a Tech degree. But the individuals crossing our stage today have also overcome an unprecedented global health crisis and the extraordinary challenges and disruptions that came along with it. We celebrate them and applaud their commitment to their education and research, to each other, and to this community. I am very grateful to our students, faculty, and staff, who supported and cared for one another while showing the grit, tenacity, and creative spirit for which Yellow Jackets are so well known. To our graduates’ families and friends — those who inspire, guide, and challenge them to be the best version of themselves — your encouragement and support have helped make today possible. Thank you. As part of our Spring 2022 ceremonies, 4,500 outstanding Yellow Jackets will receive their degrees. As their degrees are conferred, these bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral graduates join more than 180,000 Georgia Tech alumni around the globe. Georgia Tech exists to nurture and develop the next generation of leaders to use their knowledge, skills, and talent to make people’s lives better. The Class of 2022 has already accomplished so much. I look forward to the amazing things to come from these fine Yellow Jackets. Congratulations, Class of 2022!  Ángel Cabrera, President Georgia Institute of Technology Ángel Cabrera President, Georgia Institute of Technology Commencement Spring 2022 Sidebar Menu President's Welcome Order of Events Ceremony Speakers Bachelor's Degree Candidates Master's Degree Candidates Doctoral Degree Candidates Colleges and Units President and Provost Bios Commencement Traditions Alumni Welcome and Thanks Spring 2022 Program Main Page Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN