Jump to main content User menu Community Auditing Continuing Education YouthCampus Policy for Minors Search form Search × Main menu About Us Campus Contacts Newsletter News & Events Upcoming Events Annual Events April ARTS Community & Staff Day Veterans Day Voting News for Neighbors Subscribe To Our Newsletter Serving Our Community Community Contributions Faculty & Staff Outreach Blood Drive Clothing Drive Volunteer Opportunities Holiday Outreach Cards of Thanks Community Threads Food Drive Financial Requests Resource Recovery Application Use of Facilities Lake Carnegie Photography on Campus Educational Opportunities Community Auditing Join the Program Registration Add, Drop, Refunds Calendar Class Resources Course Catalog and Auditor Only Series End of Semester Special Lecture and Reception Spring 2022 Reception and Lecture responses FAQs Attestation Form Continuing Education Program Admission Requirements Submitting an Application Online Application Online Readmission Form Tuition Community College Faculty Program Eligible Colleges Submitting an Application CCFP Online Application CCFP Readmission form Post Program Survey Programs for Youth Art Athletics Internships Literacy Mathematics Music SAT Prep Science Sustainability Theater Walking on Campus Main menu: sub-menu items Community Auditing Continuing Education Program Community College Faculty Program Eligible Colleges Submitting an Application CCFP Online Application CCFP Readmission form Post Program Survey Community College Faculty Program The Community College Faculty Program (CCFP), formerly the Mid-Career Fellowship Program, is an opportunity for New Jersey community college faculty members and administrators to undertake advanced study. The Community College Faculty Program allows selected faculty from New Jersey community colleges to: Enroll at a premier university to further cultivate their understanding of the subjects they teach, Consult with distinguished scholars in a variety of fields, and Become part of a unique academic community. Eligibility To be eligible for the program, community college faculty and administrators must be currently employed at one of the participating institutions. Candidates must hold an advanced degree in a discipline taught at Princeton. Permission must be granted from the sending institution. Number of Courses Allowed Each participant is permitted to audit up to two courses per semester in their own discipline or a related field with the permission of the sending institution. Courses Guidelines The program provides professional development opportunities to help in meeting the needs of current teaching assignments and in preparation for future courses. Certain courses are restricted and not open to enrollment by participants, including Visual and Performing Arts, Writing Seminars, Freshman Seminars, introductory language classes and any course that requires application for admission. Expectations Each participant is expected to attend classes as scheduled, participate in discussions, complete all readings, and attend precepts (small group discussions). There are no examinations or written work. Release Time A sabbatical is not required to participate in this program. However, to fully benefit from the program it is recommended that participants, who continue to teach, be granted a minimum of 6 credits of release time from their full-time load for each course, or the equivalent of two courses, per Princeton course. Contact For further information contact Gina Mastro, program coordinator, or call (609) 258-5226. Office of Community and Regional Affairs 4 Mercer Street, Princeton, NJ, 08540 Phone: 609-258-3204 Facebook Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University