Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Office of Public Affairs & Communications For the Media For the Yale Community News, Events, Publications Contact Us About Home > News, Events, Publications News, Events, Publications The Office of Public Affairs & Communications manages a number of news channels, publications, and events that highlight the research and activities taking place on campus everyday. Yale News Get a comprehensive and up-close look at our multi-faceted university. Learn about groundbreaking scientific research, international initiatives, arts activities, environmental efforts, social and humanities programs, town-gown partnerships, and more. Yale Events Calendar Yale hosts scholars, journalists, heads of state, and leaders across industries on a range of topics. The Yale Calendar of Events offers a rich resource of information about campus activities. For a listing of all arts-related activities, including exhibits, concerts and student performances, visit the Yale Arts Calendar. Yale Social Channels OPAC manages Yale’s official social media channels, including Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Follow Yale for all the latest news, events, and updates. For a comprehensive listing of all social media accounts at Yale, please visit the university’s social media directory. Poynter Fellowship in Journalism A distinguished lecture series that brings to campus reporters, editors and others who have made important contributions to the media. Email Subscription Service Sign up to receive announcements for upcoming Yale plays, concerts, art exhibits, athletic events, and local New Haven happenings. View a list of upcoming speakers in this lecture series that brings distinguished journalists to campus. Latest from Yale News Study empowers long COVID patients as they struggle to find relief Udall Foundation honors three students for their environmental work Experience desired: Nonwhite women face different standard for judgeships YCBA exhibition puts contemporary spin on ‘history’ paintings Does China’s research and development funding reach the right firms? more Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 2 Whitney Avenue, Suite 330, New Haven, CT 06510 | 203-432-1345 Browse Yale News | Contact OPAC Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Instagram