Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Faculty and Staff Volunteers Commencement would not be possible without the involvement and support of Georgia Tech faculty and staff. Thank you for your attendance at this momentous event in our graduates' careers. Faculty and Staff Information Ph.D. Advisor Guidelines Ph.D. advisors are invited to join their graduates at Commencement! To attend as Ph.D. advisor, no RSVP is necessary. Academic regalia is required to attend as a Ph.D. advisor. For information on renting regalia, please visit here. Gates open at 9 a.m. and the ceremony begins at 10 a.m. Please arrive by 9:30 a.m. Entrance for Ph.D. advisors is through the Callaway Tunnel entrance, next to Gate 6, of Bobby Dodd Stadium. Spring 2022 Commencement will not feature a formal processional. Advisors will be directed to sit on the field with their student. We recommend exchanging cell phone numbers with your student so finding them is easy on Commencement day! For venue information, including parking and stadium information, visit our Venue and Ceremony Information page. Parking Parking is extremely limited and is on a first-come, first-serve basis. Faculty and staff assisting at the graduate ceremony are encouraged to walk to the ceremony. Parking & Transit Information Day-of Instructions Faculty and staff volunteers will receive a memo via email two weeks prior to the event with Commencement day directions and parking recommendations. Regalia Rentals Ph.D. Advisors and stage party members may rent regalia for the ceremony Regalia Rental Form How to Volunteer Each semester, the Commencement Office requests volunteers from the colleges to assist in executing this momentous student event. How to volunteer Please let us know if you would like to volunteer by filling out the Volunteer at Commencement form here. Ph.D. advisors who plan to attend the Ph.D. Commencement ceremony for hooding will need academic regalia. If you do not own your own, you can rent regalia by completing the Regalia Rental Form. What events can I volunteer for? We are always looking for volunteers to assist with our all three of our Commencement ceremonies. What does a volunteer do? We have multiple roles that faculty and staff can request to fill. Student seating assistants. Ph.D. hood or honor cord distribution. Guest services volunteers. Can I still watch the ceremonies if I do not volunteer? The Institute will also host the President's Graduation Celebration for all graduates and their families. Faculty are encouraged to join the campus community at this celebratory event. Commencement Events Ph.D. Ceremony Friday, May 6, 2022 10 a.m. - noon Gates will open at 9 a.m. Advisors are invited to attend to hood their student during this intimate event. An RSVP is not required to attend. President's Graduation Celebration Thursday, May 5, 2022 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. Create one last Tech memory prior to Commencement! Faculty and staff are encouraged to attend to support their students. Master's Ceremony Friday, May 6, 2022 3-5:30 p.m. Gates will open at 2 p.m. Faculty and staff are invited to celebrate our master's students. Bachelor's Morning Ceremony Saturday, May 7, 2022 9-11:30 a.m. Gates will open at 8 a.m. Faculty and staff are invited to celebrate our bachelor's students. View participating majors. Bachelor's Afternoon Ceremony Saturday, May 7, 2022 3-5:30 p.m. Gates will open at 2 p.m. Faculty and staff are invited to celebrate our bachelor's students. View participating majors. Questions Please speak with the dean's office of your college if you have any questions prior to instructions distribution. If you have not received your instructions, email the Commencement Office. Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN