Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Communications Main navigation Home About About Us Meet the Team Careers Brand Brand Standards and Guidelines Our Voice Our Look Licensing Licensing and Trademarks Campus Resources External Communications About Media and PR Op-Ed and News Pitching Social Media State Outreach Internal Communications Campus Communications Campus Calendar On-Campus Advertising Campus Communicator Contacts Events at Georgia Tech About Event Planning Event Coordinator Network (External Link) Georgia Tech Special Events (External Link) Photo and Video About Photography and Videography Photo and Video Guides Scheduling a Headshot Websites Website Development Content Strategy Hiring Website Vendors Meeting and Training Opportunities Meetings and Training Presentation Archives (GT Account Required) Media and Vendors Media Inquiries Promotional Inquiries User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search How to Hire a Website Vendor Breadcrumb Home Navigating the Enterprise-Wide Web Contract For those considering hiring a third party for their website work, Georgia Tech has an enterprise-wide contract in place that allows you to quickly get estimates from a group of pre-approved vendors. In March 2020, the Institute finalized two enterprise-wide contracts for web projects: One for projects less than $50K. One for projects greater than $50K. These contracts include a number of fully vetted vendors with a broad range of skillsets in owned digital. Every Georgia Tech unit seeking third-party website support must use a vendor from one of the enterprise-wide web contracts. See the Big Picture For those unfamiliar with the process of redesigning websites or web work in general, we recommend reviewing the resource A Non-Web Developers Guide to a Website Redesign prior to beginning. Websites Website Development Hiring Website Vendors Content Strategy Need Help? General Questions: Doug Goodwin Assistant Director, Client Relations and Project Management Stephanie Phillips Traffic, Production, and Analytics Coordinator Louise Russo Director‚ Institute Digital Strategy Purchasing Questions: Mark Sinness Senior Procurement Contracting Officer Quick Start Guide Identify the project Scope of Work (SOW). If you estimate that the value of the work is less than $50K, choose a minimum of 3 suppliers from the Enterprise Web Development – Small Projects contract and solicit quotes from them based on your SOW. If you estimate the value of the work is $50K or greater, then choose a minimum of 3 suppliers from the Enterprise Web Development – Large Projects contract and solicit quotes from them based on your SOW. Once you have identified the lowest quoting supplier that meets your needs, you will need to obtain an approved Campus Technology Request (CTR) from Georgia Tech OIT. Do not enter a requisition without an approved CTR. Enter a WorkDay Procurement Requisition, using the lowest quoting supplier as the Supplier in Workday. The requisition should be on a Service line item. Attach the approved CTR to the requisition, along with the supplier quotes you received. For additional details and links to resources, please refer to the In-Depth Guide below. In-Depth Guide Identify the Scope of Work Outline your needs and create a Scope of Work (SOW) that includes a budget, clear milestones, and deliverables. Use these SOW examples to create your own for small and large web projects. Note: Requires GT account login. Select a Supplier Send your SOW to vendor(s) for a quote. You will solicit vendor(s) from the appropriate contract, based on the estimated project cost. Access the supplier lists. Note: GT account login required for access. Less than $10K Choose one or more suppliers from the Enterprise Web Development – Small Projects contract. Between $10K - $50K Choose a minimum of three suppliers from the Enterprise Web Development – Small Projects contract. More than $50K Choose a minimum of three suppliers from the Enterprise Web Development – Large Projects contract. Once you have received all quotes, choose the lowest quoting supplier who also meets your needs. Submit a Campus Technology Request Once you have identified the lowest quoting supplier who also meets your needs, submit a Campus Technology Request (CTR) to Georgia Tech OIT for approval. Important: Do not move on to the next step until you have an approved CTR. Enter a Procurement Requisition Submit a WorkDay Procurement Requisition, using the lowest quoting supplier as the Supplier in Workday. Login to workday In the search field at the top of the page, type in “create requisition" and press Enter. From the search results, click the “create requisition” link. Fill out the form and attach the approved CTR and supplier quotes. Institute Communications Georgia Institute of Technology 177 North Avenue NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0181 404.894.0870 Institute Communications Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education