Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Venue and Ceremony Information Venue and Ceremony Information Bobby Dodd Stadium 177 North Ave NW Atlanta, Georgia, 30313 Safety Information Weather Adivisory The Spring 2022 Commencement event location is based on public health guidance, which encourages outdoor spaces for larger public events. To minimize impact to graduate and guests’ travel plans, our ceremonies are held rain or shine. When there is severe weather, ceremonies may need to pause or be rescheduled to Sunday, May 8. We will update graduates through emails and our website of any changes to our ceremony plans and possible weather in the forecast. We are preparing for the possibility of rain during our Friday ceremonies. This is a rain or shine event, and graduates and guests are encouraged to bring a raincoat or poncho. Umbrellas are not allowed in the venue and rain gear will not be provided. Graduates should consider appropriate footwear for the weather. In the event there is lightning in the vicinity or sustained heavy rain, we will pause the ceremony to shelter in the concourses until we can safely resume the ceremony. The ceremony will be live streamed at commencement.gatech.edu/live. Notice of any delays will be posted on the Commencement website and on on the Georgia Tech Twitter account. Venue Information Security Reminders Bobby Dodd Stadium has a clear bag policy. View acceptable items. All guests and students will go through magnetometers, or walk-through metal detectors, prior to entry. For the full list of restrictions, view our list at the bottom of this page. Bag Policy All students, guests, and volunteers attending the event are subject to our clear bag stadium entry process. Backpacks, suitcases, and laptops are not allowed. Read the Policy ADA guest information Accessibility is a top priority at Georgia Tech. Seating for guests with disabilities and limited mobility is available at all our ceremonies. ADA seating will be available on a first-come, first-served basis in the following areas of the stadium: Rows 29-32 in Sections 103-111 Rows 22-24 in Sections 112-118 Accessibility and Special Needs Venue Safety We encourage everyone in the Georgia Tech community to follow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) recommendations, vaccinate, and wear a mask based on preference and assessment of personal risk. This policy may be updated to follow current public health recommendations as we approach the Commencement ceremonies. Bag Valet Bags that are not permitted inside Bobby Dodd must be returned to the guest's vehicle or be checked into bag valet. Bag valet is located at Gate 1 and on the top of Peters Parking Deck, across from Gate 6. View acceptable items under our contactless entry policy. Concessions Limited concessions will be available during all ceremonies. Bobby Dodd accepts major credit cards. Outside food and drink are not allowed. Retail Locations Surprise your graduate with a Georgia Tech gift and flowers! Retail locations will be open in Callaway Plaza, Section 112, Gates 4 and 5, and the Club Level. Ceremony Information Seating Student Seating Bachelor's and master's students will be seated by college on the field. Ph.D. students will be grouped by degree level. Students will walk in the order they sit. Students will seat themselves as they arrive and will not be placed in alphabetical order. Guest Seating Providing ample seating in the stands for guest seating. Designated handicap seats will be throughout the stadium. More information to come on ADA seating. Ph.D. Ceremony Seating Map Bachelor's Morning Ceremony Seating Map Master's Ceremony Seating Map Bachelor's Afternoon Ceremony Seating Map Student Recognition Students will walk on stage to receive their faux diploma from the president. Each attending student will have their individual name called and displayed on the jumbotron as they walk across stage. Students will then take a photo with the Ramblin' Wreck and receive a gift from the Alumni Association before returning to their seat. Name Card Name cards, also known as your GradPass, will be accessed via your mobile device. The week of the ceremony, students can access their GradPass by logging into their Marching Order account they created when they submitted their RSVP and selecting "GradPass." Students can print at home or take a screenshot of the QR code to avoid loading it at the ceremony. Other Ceremony Viewing Options If your guests can’t travel to the ceremony, they can still watch you walk across the stage. More Ways to View the Ceremony Transportation Parking Parking information will be updated closer to the ceremony. Maps of parking lots for each ceremony. Guest drop off and handicap parking locations. Traffic alerts. Public transit information. Parking and Transit Information Guest Drop-Off and Handicap Parking for All Ceremonies All guest drop-off and pick-up at the intersection of Techwood Drive and Bobby Dodd Way. Guests with a valid handicap parking tag will be directed to park on Fowler Street or Brittain Drive between Fourth Street and Bobby Dodd Way. Additional Information Severe Weather Plan Spring 2022 Commencement is a rain or shine event. Graduates and guests are advised to monitor the weather forecast closely and dress appropriately for the seasonal climate. Each outdoor ceremony is expected to last approximately two to two and half hours. We will make every effort to host the ceremonies as planned. If severe weather makes it unsafe for participants to gather outside, we will reschedule the ceremony to Sunday, May 8. Any decision to change the location of the ceremony due to severe weather would be announced on Tuesday, May 3. Dress Code and Decorum While Commencement has no official dress code, we encourage families to dress in a manner appropriate to the ceremony. Many of our families dress business casual to casual. Graduates and guests are advised to monitor the weather forecast closely and dress appropriately for the seasonal climate. Families are encouraged to hold their applause until all graduates walk across the stage to allow everyone’s name to be heard. Please be respectful to all of our students. Guests will be asked to release any reserved seats 15 minutes prior to ceremony start to help us accommodate others. What Not to Wear: Commencement Edition Photo Finish GradImages, your official graduation photographer, will take professional photos at each Commencement activity and send out proofs shortly after your event. At the President's Graduation Celebration: GradImages will take photos with you, your family and friends, and the Ramblin' Wreck During the ceremony: GradImages will photograph your official graduation portrait, plus close-ups of you crossing the stage Immediately after the ceremony: Grab a photographer to take candid photos of you with family and friends Proofs of your formal and candid shots will be sent via email the week after your graduation event. You can also visit gradimages.com after the ceremony to view and order your images. Wondering where to take photos with your grad after the ceremony? View our suggestions for campus hot spots Restrictions Items must adhere to the GTAA clear bag policy. Backpacks and luggage are not allowed into the venue. Strollers are not allowed in the venue and must be checked into bag valet (this includes car seat baby carriers). Exceptions to the bag policy will be made for medical and/or diaper bags in addition to cross body baby carriers – guests with medical and/or diaper bags must request an individual inspection from the gate supervisor. Cameras lenses must be under 4 inches or less in length. Any lens exceeding this size will not be allowed in the venue. Tripods and monopods are not permitted. No outside food or beverage allowed in the venue. Concessions will be available during the ceremony. Unopened water bottles will be permitted. Absolutely no alcoholic beverages are allowed in or around the ceremony area. Anyone violating this code will be removed from the event. Noisemakers, selfie-sticks, signs, inflated balls, and balloons are not permitted. Guests may bring flowers for their graduates. Pets and therapy animals are not permitted. Service Animals are permitted. Umbrellas are not permitted inside the stadium. Families are encouraged to hold their applause until all graduates walk across the stage to allow everyone’s name to be heard. Please review the prohibited and permitted items list for the full list of items. Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN