Skip to site alert. Skip to content Office of Communications Contact Us Download Logos News Search What We Do Our Team Branding & Identity Digital Strategy & Web Services News Making the Most of Telehealth for Talk Therapy May 12, 2022 Most mental health problems can be addressed via telehealth, says Columbia psychiatrist Deborah Cabaniss, and there are things patients can do to make the most of their sessions. Topic Mental Health New Initiative to Develop Personalized Therapies for People with Rare Genetic Forms of ALS May 12, 2022 A new initiative led by Columbia University and the n-Lorem Foundation will develop personalized therapies for individuals with "nano-rare" genetic forms of ALS and treat them for free, for life. Topic Neurology Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the West May 12, 2022 Demographically younger nations have a higher aging burden than previously thought and need new policies to prevent large numbers of people from leaving the workforce due to ill health. Topic Public Health Skin Cancer in People of Color May 12, 2022 Dark skin does provide some protection against the sun’s ultraviolet rays, but it’s a myth that people with dark skin tones are immune to the harmful effects of UV radiation. Topic Dermatology Why it’s hard to maintain weight loss May 12, 2022 When you try to lose weight—and keep the weight off—you’re battling your body and your genes. Topic General Medicine Visit the Newsroom Our Work We produce communications to support and promote CUIMC. What We Do What We Do Brand Guide Find everything you need to stay on brand. View Brand Guide View Brand Guide Meet the Team View Staff Listing View Staff Listing Share Your News: CUIMC Faculty and Staff Tell Us More. Tell Us More. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian What We Do Our Team News Branding & Identity Columbia University Irving Medical Center Office of Communications 701 West 168th Street Room 205 New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top