Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Ceremonies School Ceremonies Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Congratulations to the Class of 2022! Contact your individual school with questions related to Class Day ceremonies, and visit the graduating students and announcements pages for the most current updates. The Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons has several events to honor the accomplishments of the graduating students from its different programs. The Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons marks its students' successes and milestones with several ceremonies and events throughout their medical education. These momentous occasions include the White Coat Ceremony, the Steven Z. Miller Student Clinician's Ceremony, Match Day, Class Day, and Commencement. Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Graduation Ceremony This ceremony recognizes graduates earning a Doctor of Medicine (MD) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Biomedical Sciences. Date: Wednesday, May 18, 2022 Time: 2:00 p.m. Speaker: Mary Bassett, MD, MPH Diplomas: Diplomas will be mailed following graduation to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file, based on each graduate’s degree conferral date. Verify or update your DP address on Student Services Online (SSOL). Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. School Graduation Website: https://www.vagelos.columbia.edu/education/student-resources/office-student-affairs/annual-events/commencement School Contact: Andrea Patterson [email protected] Institute of Human Nutrition MS Year-End Celebration This ceremony is an annual event celebrating the achievements of the graduating MS class. Date: Thursday, May 19, 2022 Time: 2:30-5:00 p.m. Speaker: To be announced Diplomas: Students will receive their diploma via mail a few weeks after their October 2022 graduation. They must have a diploma address listed in SSOL to receive their diploma. Verify or update your DP address on Student Services Online (SSOL). Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. School Graduation Website Students have access to graduation information through their Key Program Information Canvas site. School Contact: Sarah Bergren [email protected] (212) 342-3804 Alex Sosa [email protected] (917) 334-7317 Professional Health Therapy Programs Programs in Occupational Therapy Date: Thursday, May 19, 2022 Time: 10:00 a.m. Speaker: Penny Mishkin, MS OTR Diplomas: Diplomas will be mailed following graduation to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file, based on each graduate’s degree conferral date. Verify or update your DP address on Student Services Online (SSOL). Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. School Graduation Website To be announced School Contact: Jessica Bussey [email protected] Programs in Physical Therapy Date: Tuesday, May 17, 2022 Time: 10:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. Speaker: Roger Herr Diplomas: Diplomas will be mailed following graduation to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file, based on each graduate’s degree conferral date. Verify or update your DP address on Student Services Online (SSOL). Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. School Graduation Website: https://www.vagelos.columbia.edu/education/academic-programs/programs-physical-therapy/commencement School Contact: Kim Whittam [email protected] Program in Genetic Counseling MS Year-End Celebration This ceremony is an annual event celebrating the achievements of the graduating MS class. Date: Wednesday, May 18, 2022 Time: 2:30-5:30 p.m. Speaker: To be announced Diplomas: Diplomas will be mailed following graduation to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file, based on each graduate’s degree conferral date. Verify or update your DP address on Student Services Online (SSOL). Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. School Graduation Website To be announced School Contact: Amanda Bergner, MS, CGC [email protected] (212) 304-6500 Helpful Links Webcast Announcements School Ceremonies Schedule of Events Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Commencement Office Questions? We're available by email. E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close