Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box University Relations and Marketing Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search The Oregon State Brand URM Staff Public Records Request Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift The Oregon State Brand URM Staff Public Records Request Public Records Request Making Public Records Requests Public Records Standard: OSU Standard 576-004 covers the procedure for making public records requests to OSU. Requests for OSU public records may be made by email or U.S. mail to the Interim Public Records Officer. Email is preferred, when possible. Charlotte Ross Interim Public Records Officer University Relations and Marketing Oregon State University 634 Kerr Administration Bldg Corvallis, Oregon 97331 Submit Request via Email Request Content Each public records request must describe the public records requested with such reasonable and sufficient specificity to allow OSU to identify and locate the requested public records. If a request does not comply with the requirement of reasonable and sufficient specificity, the request will be denied until this requirement is satisfied. Public records requests, including names of requestors and OSU’s responses to those requests typically meet the definition of public records and may be disclosed if requested. Fees Charged for Public Records Responses OSU and its departments may charge fees to reimburse its costs for the duplication, copies, and preparation of public records requested by a person under OSU Standard 576-004-0000 et. seq. The fees are set forth in the OSU list of fees and charges adopted by OSU Standard 576-010-0000. Currently, OSU charges requestors $0.25 per page plus the hourly rate of the person or persons responding to the request times the amount of time the person or persons required to respond to the request. The University will not produce public records requested until fees associated with their production are paid. Waiver of Fees The University may produce public records without charge for minimal requests, or at a substantially reduced fee, if the University determines that the waiver or reduction of fees is in the public interest because making the information, materials, and documents available primarily benefits the general public. The person requesting the public records must request a waiver or reduction of fees and must explain why allowing the waiver or reduction is in the public interest. Denial and Appeal The University may deny a request for public records if the records are exempt from disclosure or if the conditions for requests are not met. The University will send a written denial to the requestor. A person who has been denied information may petition the Benton County District Attorney in accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes at section 192.460. Contact Info University Relations and Marketing Contact URM Staff Corvallis, Oregon 97331-2155 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer