Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home 2022 School Ceremony Webcast 2022 School Ceremony Webcast Commencement Week is full of activities and events to honor the graduates' accomplishments. Individual schools have their own graduation celebrations in a more intimate setting while the University Commencement ceremony is an opportunity for the entire University community to come together. Can’t find your ceremony? This schedule highlights the events held on the South Lawn or St. Paul’s Chapel. View the Schedule of Events to learn more about the other ceremonies and Commencement-related activities. Missed a ceremony? Videos of concluded events from this year's Commencement Week will be available in the webcast schedule below. Closed captions are available and these ceremonies are best viewed on a desktop, laptop, or tablet. If you experience technical difficulties, please refresh your browser. Schedule of Webcasts *Please note that all ceremony times are in EDT. Friday, May 13 10:00 a.m. Professional Studies - Ceremony 1 1:30 p.m. Professional Studies - Ceremony 2 Saturday, May 14 7:45 a.m. Business School - EMBA 12:00 p.m. Architecture, Planning and Preservation 4:00 p.m. Social Work Sunday, May 15 8:00 a.m. Business School - MBA 10:00 a.m. Baccalaureate Service (watch here) 12:00 p.m. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences - PhD 2:45 p.m. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences - MA 6:00 p.m. International and Public Affairs Monday, May 16 7:45 a.m. General Studies 12:15 p.m. Engineering and Applied Science 7:30 p.m. Law School Tuesday, May 17 8:00 a.m. Columbia College Wednesday, May 18 10:30 a.m. University Commencement Thursday, May 19 9:00 a.m. Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 (watch here) Get your virtual celebratory kit! Unleash your creative powers with this DIY celebratory kit. Check out the GIPHY stickers, photo booth props, virtual backgrounds, and more! Peruse & Download On the night of Commencement, from sunset until 2:00 a.m. (EDT), watch the live stream as the top of New York's iconic Empire State Building lights up in blue and white in your honor! Join the rest of New York City as we all celebrate Columbia’s Class of 2022. @empirestatebldg #ROARLIONS2022 Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close