Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Communications Main navigation Home About About Us Meet the Team Careers Brand Brand Standards and Guidelines Our Voice Our Look Licensing Licensing and Trademarks Campus Resources External Communications About Media and PR Op-Ed and News Pitching Social Media State Outreach Internal Communications Campus Communications Campus Calendar On-Campus Advertising Campus Communicator Contacts Events at Georgia Tech About Event Planning Event Coordinator Network (External Link) Georgia Tech Special Events (External Link) Photo and Video About Photography and Videography Photo and Video Guides Scheduling a Headshot Websites Website Development Content Strategy Hiring Website Vendors Meeting and Training Opportunities Meetings and Training Presentation Archives (GT Account Required) Media and Vendors Media Inquiries Promotional Inquiries User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Campus Calendar Breadcrumb Home The Campus Calendar is a public, comprehensive resource that captures the many activities and events that take place on campus. The calendar is managed by our campus communications team. Submitting events to the Campus Calendar Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to submit events to the calendar to increase exposure and share information with the campus community. Event Submission Guidelines Event submissions should be of general interest to the Tech community and hosted by a campus organization or department. Generally Included Events Official academic calendar dates. Institute holidays. Events hosted by campus departments, organizations, or affiliates, including those taking place off campus. Events open to the Tech community. Generally Excluded Events Events where Georgia Tech serves only as a venue for a non-Tech event. Promotional or sales events. Deadlines or reminders. General Tips Explain why someone would want to attend and what they will be doing while there. Use a descriptive title. For example, rather than “Chemistry Seminar,” give the name of the seminar topic. Keep to eight words or fewer. Since the calendar is viewable to the general public, include who the event is for in the body field. Spell out acronyms. Avoid exclamation points. Check spelling, particularly of names and professional titles. Internal Communications Campus Communications Campus Calendar On-Campus Advertising Campus Communicator Contacts Contact For general questions, or to have your listing removed or edited: campus-calendar@gatech.edu. Related Links Georgia Tech Campus Calendar Submit an Event to the Campus Calendar Mercury Help (Includes helpful hints and guides for entering events via the Mercury system.) Institute Communications Georgia Institute of Technology 177 North Avenue NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0181 404.894.0870 Institute Communications Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education