Jump to main content User menu Community Auditing Continuing Education YouthCampus Policy for Minors Search form Search × Main menu About Us Campus Contacts Newsletter News & Events Upcoming Events Annual Events April ARTS Community & Staff Day Veterans Day Voting News for Neighbors Subscribe To Our Newsletter Serving Our Community Community Contributions Faculty & Staff Outreach Blood Drive Clothing Drive Volunteer Opportunities Holiday Outreach Cards of Thanks Community Threads Food Drive Financial Requests Resource Recovery Application Use of Facilities Lake Carnegie Photography on Campus Educational Opportunities Community Auditing Join the Program Registration Add, Drop, Refunds Calendar Class Resources Course Catalog and Auditor Only Series End of Semester Special Lecture and Reception Spring 2022 Reception and Lecture responses FAQs Attestation Form Continuing Education Program Admission Requirements Submitting an Application Online Application Online Readmission Form Tuition Community College Faculty Program Eligible Colleges Submitting an Application CCFP Online Application CCFP Readmission form Post Program Survey Programs for Youth Art Athletics Internships Literacy Mathematics Music SAT Prep Science Sustainability Theater Walking on Campus Main menu: sub-menu items Community Contributions Faculty & Staff Outreach Blood Drive Clothing Drive Volunteer Opportunities Holiday Outreach Financial Requests Resource Recovery Use of Facilities Volunteer Opportunities Princeton University employees interested in volunteer opportunities sponsored by Princeton University groups or local community organizations can send their name and email address to Melissa Mercuro at mmercuro@princeton.edu to be added to the Community Volunteer Listserv. Community volunteer emails will provide descriptions of events, number of volunteers needed, amount of time required, and contact information. Employees can commit to activities of interest and these opportunities will be on the their own time and require permission from their supervisor if during work hours. A sample of local community organizations who are in need of volunteers on a regular basis are listed below. Please contact these organizations to confirm their volunteer programs are running during the pandemic. What's New The State of New Jersey is looking for volunteers to assist with the state's Contact Tracing Program. Learn more about the Contact Tracing Program. Organization Description Need Contact ARC Innovator ARC Innovators is a skills-based volunteer matching program meant to help professionals and nonprofits deepen their social impact. There are various projects that provide volunteers the opportunity to share their expertise and skills with our different nonprofit partner organizations. ARC is looking for an Innovator who will provide landscape design for a modest memorial garden honoring Princeton AlumniCorps founders. The garden will be on the property of the building owned by AlumniCorps and will also require a plan for ongoing maintenance. The garden project is the result of a designated gift from a donor. Contact Soraia Francisco at sfrancisco@alumnicorps.org Arm in Arm (formerly the Crisis Ministry) Arm in Arm serves some 1,400 families and individuals each month from two accessible locations. The organization’s core program areas are: Homelessness Prevention, Hunger Prevention, and Workforce Development. Make home food deliveries Coordinate a Food Drive, Personal Care Products Drive, or Household Products Drive Help unload the Crisis Ministry delivery truck Help stock shelves after a donation drive Assist in the food bank Contact Becca Jensen Compton at (609) 396-9355 x35 or beccaj@arminarm.org Cornerstone Community Kitchen Cornerstone Community Kitchen, located at 7 Vandeventer Ave., offering weekly free and nutritious meal in a friendly atmosphere. Serve meals Contact 609-924-2613 or office@princetonumc.org D & R Greenway Land Trust D&R Greenway Land Trust works to preserve and care for land and inspire a conservation ethic in central New Jersey. Volunteers are needed to assist projects like Capital City Farm, Citizen Scientists, New Jersey Trails. Native Plant Nursery and Willing Hands. To learn more about these projects, visit drgreenway.com/volunteer. Contact Karen Freundlich at 609-924-4646 or info@drgreenway.org Friends of Princeton Open Space Friends of Princeton Open Space has established parkland and created a network of trails since 1969. FOPOS is headquartered in the house at Billy Johnson Mountain Lakes Nature Preserve. Volunteers meet most weekends to create and maintain hiking trails. Schedule a Community Service day for your group Contact 609-921-2772 or info@fopos.org Greenwood House Hospice Greenwood House provides senior and health care services that includes nursing care, rehabilitation services, assisted living, homecare services and hospice care. Patient contact volunteers Administrative volunteers Bereavement services volunteers Contact Lisa Cox at 609-883-6026 or lcox@greenwoodhouse.org. Habitat for Humanity Habitat for Humanity believes everyone, everywhere, should have a healthy, affordable place to call home. More than building homes, they build communities, hope, and the opportunity for families to help themselves. Construction: Habitat for Humanity is currently building 7 homes on N Clinton Ave. in Trenton. Volunteers do not have to have any construction experience and are provided all the tools and safety gear needed for the day. Water and sun screen is available at the construction site. Contact Rebecca Nichols at 856-439-6717 x 2 or volunteer@habitatbcnj.org Historical Society of Princeton This Historical Society of Princeton is dedicated to the preservation of Princeton's history. HSP develops programs that build connections to the past. It is headquartered at Updike Farmstead. Unity Garden: Volunteers tend the organic garden at Updike Farms, including watering and picking produce. Produce is donated to the Cornerstone Community Kitchen at Princeton United Methodist Church. Unity Garden: Contact Kristen Lombardo at 609-921-6748 x106 or kristen@princetonhistory.org HomeFront HomeFront is dedicated to ending homelessness in Central New Jersey. The organization's FreeStore is a store where clients can go to shop for clothing, professional attire, household items, toys and more at no cost to them. Volunteer groups assist with sorting incoming donations and organizing the store (maximum: 10 volunteers). Assist with Food Pantry: Prepare food bags, sort donations, check expiration dates SewingSpace: Cut fabric, organize sewing materials, and help clients prep their projects Contact 609-989-9417 or getinvolved@homefrontnj.org LifeTies LifeTies, Inc. is a supportive network of professional staff and trained volunteers dedicated to creating programs for youth to overcome the effects of abuse, neglect or homelessness. Our programs offer a nurturing, safe environment to heal, learn and become equipped with the tools to work towards a brighter future. Skilled volunteers is the following areas: College and career counseling Tutoring Life skills Health and wellness Contact Loren Greene at 609-414-2083 or lgreene@lifeties.org Mercer Street Friends Mercer Street Friends is a multi-faceted human service agency that assists Mercer County residents who face the challenges and impacts of poverty. Their programs target food insecurity, family wellness, youth enrichment and community building. Mercer Street friends also operate a preschool and food bank. Preschool— 1201 West State St., Trenton Volunteers groups are welcome to spend a morning at the center assisting with classroom and outdoor activities. (maximum of 10; unless supervised in a group, volunteers must be 18 years of age.) Food Bank—824 Silvia St, Ewing Assemble, sort, and pack Preschool: contact Lisa Banks at 609-656-5220 or lbanks@mercerstreetfriends.org Food Bank: contact Brian Peterson at 609-406-0503 or bpeterson@mercerstreetfriends.org Morven Museum & Garden A National Historic Landmark, Morven is situated on five pristine acres in the heart of Princeton, New Jersey. This former New Jersey Governor’s Mansion showcases the rich cultural heritage of the Garden State through regular exhibitions, educational programs and special events. Volunteers needed for gardening, leading tours, helping with administrative tasks, and assisting with educational programs and special events. Training provided. Contact 609-924-8144 or info@morven.org One Simple Wish One Simple Wish was founded by a foster/adoptive parent who wanted to empower more people to support children who've been victims of abuse, neglect and abandonment in very simple yet meaningful ways. The organization's website hosts a list of hundreds of wishes posted on behalf of foster children and at-risk youth all over the United States. All wishes are under $500 with most ranging from $10-$100. One Simple Wish needs volunteers to write thank you notes, organize Wish Parties and participate in Wish-A-Thons. 609-883-8484 or info@onesimplewish.org Princeton Nursery School Princeton Nursery School is a small, nonprofit childcare and preschool center providing low to moderate income working parents with affordable tuition rates for needed childcare services. The school's staff works to assure that each child regardless of race or first language has a quality preschool education. Volunteers serve as classroom or office assistants. Contact Rosonda Wong at 609-921-8606 or pnskids@gmail.com Princeton University Art Museum The Princeton University Art Museum is one of the nation’s leading art museums, with collections of more than 92,000 works ranging from ancient to contemporary, concentrating geographically on Europe and the Mediterranean, Asia and the Americas. The museum is open to the public, and admission is free. In the fall, the Art Museum looks for Museum Ambassadors. Volunteers serve as liaisons with museum visitors and staff the information desk. Being a Museum Ambassador is a year-long commitment. Volunteers take part in two 2.5 hour training sessions and serve five hours per month. Contact Brice Batchelor-Hall at 609-258-7268 or bricehall@princeton.edu Princeton Young Achievers A program of the Princeton Family YMCA, the Princeton Young Achievers is the town's only afterschool program that provides homework help to children from lower income neighborhoods. There are many different types of opportunities including child care, coaching and mentoring. Contact Leigh Zink at 609-497-9622 x201 or lzink@princetonymca.org SAVE SAVE operates as a limited admission shelter with contracts to serve Princeton Township, Princeton Borough and Lawrence Township animal control centers. Cat cage cleaning Socialization Dog walking/training Off-site adoption events. All new interested volunteers need to attend an orientation, which is hosted host twice a month Call the shelter to schedule an orientation at 609-309-5214 Senior Care Services of Greater Princeton The Senior Care Ministry of Princeton is a nonprofit organization dedicated to assisting the elderly in our community.The ministry provides free services that enable the elderly to remain in their homes as long as it is safely possible. The organization’s services include health-related transportation, food shopping and friendly visiting. Provide transportation for seniors Food shopping Friendly visits Minor home repairs Office support, data entry and computer support Contact Beth Clare Michel Smith at (609) 921-8888 or info@seniorcareministry.org Special Olympics New Jersey Special Olympics New Jersey is a non-profit organization that provides sports training and athletic competition to children and adults with intellectual disabilities. SONJ host free sporting events at its sports complex located in Lawrenceville. Special Olympics New Jersey needs volunteers at athletic competitions throughout the year. Check the website for upcoming competitions. Sign-ups can be done through their website. Visit www.sonj.org Trenton Area Soup Kitchen TASK provides more than 3,000 free meals per week to people in need in the Trenton area. The organization directs their activities toward helping patrons achieve healthier lifestyles, increased self-esteem, and self-sufficiency. Help serve a meal for the South Trenton Soup Kitchen (Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday). Volunteer Hours are 4:30-6:30pm. Contact charlieo@trentonsoupkitchen.org United Way of Greater Mercer County The United Way works everyday to advance the common good by focusing on children, families, seniors, and individuals in three areas: education, income, and health. Contact the United Way to set up a volunteer activity for your office. Some examples are: Host a book drive Build literacy kits Build S.T.E.A.M. kits Build anti-bullying kits Contact Denise Daniels at 609-896-1912 or denise.daniels@uwgmc.org University Volunteer Firefighters Princeton University’s Volunteer Fire program partners with the local municipality volunteer firefighter program to assure round the clock fire protection to the community. University employees participate and provide service to Princeton during daytime hours. Certified fire fighters are welcome as are those with interest in serving but no experience. Contact contactvolfire@princeton.edu Womanspace Womanspace works to decrease the isolation and increase the safety for victims of domestic violence. Clients present a diversity of needs - from the emergency need for safety to the long-term need for housing and counseling. Volunteers are needed for the Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault teams. Contact Susan Adams at 609-394-0136 YWCA Princeton YWCA Princeton's mission is to eliminate racism and empower women. High School Equivalency Test Preparation Instructors for language arts and reading High School Equivalency Test Preparation Instructors for mathematics High School Equivalency Test Tutors ESL Tutors/Conversation Partners/Workshop Facilitators Contact Heledona Katro at 609-497-2100 x322 or hkatro@ywcaprinceton.org Office of Community and Regional Affairs 4 Mercer Street, Princeton, NJ, 08540 Phone: 609-258-3204 Facebook Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University