Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Columbia Alumni Benefits Columbia Alumni Benefits 375,000+ Alumni Worldwide, One Powerful Network Congratulations on completing your degree, but the best is yet to come! As alumni of Columbia University, you are part of a global network of 375,000+ leaders, creators, and change-makers bound together by our shared University connection. United, we are creating meaningful change for our University and around the world. Connect with Alumni The Online Alumni Community can help you explore career opportunities, connect with fellow alumni if you’re moving to a new city, or simply keep in touch with old friends. Whatever the need, the Community is your online connection to your alma mater. Log in to update your information, share your news, and take advantage of this valuable lifelong networking resource. Get Connected Get Social A few clicks are all it takes for lifelong Columbians to stay connected to each other and to the University. Follow the CAA on social media and get Columbia updates in real time, including news, alumni events, #TBTs, and more. facebookfficial icon twitter icon instagram icon linkedin icon youtube-play icon Link Up with Columbians Near You More than 100 alumni Global Clubs and Shared Interest Groups worldwide support graduates of all backgrounds, with all interests, in all industries, wherever they might live. Join Your Club Fill Your Calendar From recent alumni happy hours to baseball outings and academic lectures, keep your routine fresh with an exclusive array of cultural, academic, and social events–both online and in person. The CAA's website features everything that's coming up. See Events Experience the Arts If you like art, then we've got your ticket. With CAA Arts Access, you have exclusive access to events, discounts, and arts and cultural organizations. Choose an Experience Claim Your Exclusive Benefits You may have graduated, but the CAA has still got you covered. Alumni get exclusive discounts on fitness, tech, insurance, healthcare, banking, and more. Start Saving Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close