Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Exec Ed Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Communication Program Menu Communication Program Lecturers Staff About Wharton Wharton Communication Program The Wharton Communication Program helps prepare business leaders for the communication challenges they will face as business and community leaders. The Communication Program now offers Undergraduate students over 80 sections of persuasive business communication courses each year and 260 sections of business speaking and writing courses for first-year MBA students. Undergraduate The goal of the Undergraduate Communication Program is to develop fundamental business communication skills that are critical to long term success. As the 2nd step in Wharton’s Undergraduate Leadership Journey, we offer over 80 sections of persuasive business communication courses each year. Our small, interactive classes allow students to develop their own personal voice and communication style, as well as their confidence and effectiveness as future business leaders. We welcome your suggestions as to how we can best meet students’ communication needs. Please contact Andrea Dolph, Director of the Undergraduate Program, at dolpha@wharton.upenn.edu, if you have any questions or concerns. MBA In its most recent review of the MBA curriculum, Wharton faculty voted to double the communication course requirement for all MBA students and include a writing requirement. As a result, the Communication Program now offers first-year MBA students 260 sections of speaking courses each year: a foundational Management Communication course in the fall and options for communication courses in the spring that include: Advanced Persuasion: Impromptu Speaking and Elements of Story for Business Advanced Persuasion: Crisis Communication Advanced Persuasion: Fundamentals for Prospective Entrepreneurs Communication Challenges for Entrepreneurs: “Pitching your Business” Persuasive Writing for Business Leaders To satisfy the writing requirement, students are required to take an online writing waiver exam the summer before the fall. Those who do not waive the requirement must take our WHCP6210 Clear and Persuasive Business Writing course in the fall of their first year. For more details see Required Curriculum for All MBA Students. Since our speaking courses have a maximum of 8 students per section, Wharton’s Management Communication courses are the only seminar-style courses in the required MBA curriculum. Our courses help students become more skilled communicators and thus better presenters, public speakers and writers. Our approach includes a thorough foundation in communication theory reinforced through multiple practice opportunities, video recording of speeches and rigorous feedback. We record over 11,000 speeches each year. The need for future business leaders to be effective communicators has never been greater. Business and community leaders are evaluated in many different communication genres — speeches, webcasts, media interviews, video conferences, podcasts, blog posts, emails, memos, opinion pieces and tweets, all offering both opportunities and risks. Our practical, skills-based approach helps students develop their personal style and strengthen their confidence as communicators. Please browse through our site and learn about the programs and services we offer. We welcome your suggestions as to how we can best meet students’ communication needs. Please contact Antionnette McDermott, Director of Graduate Program, at mcdera@wharton.upenn.edu, if you have any questions or concerns. Additional Links Communication Program Communication Program Lecturers Staff About Wharton Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff Support Wharton©2022 The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Communication Program | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help