Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Wellness Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What We Do About the Center TASHE News Events Meet Our Team Services Ask-A-Nurse Enrollment Assistance Program Health Counseling Training InTOuCH Mental Health First Aid Columbia | Wellness Center You are here: Home What We Do Blood Pressure and Cholesterol Screening Blood Pressure and Cholesterol Screening The Wellness Center provides blood pressure screening to all who walk in. Visitors receive a record of their results, as well as a blood pressure tracking card to keep track of their numbers on a regular basis. Wellness Center staff can also offer information on free and low-cost clinical resources in the neighborhood and within the New York-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center community. High blood pressure can lead to heart attack and stroke, so it's important to know your numbers and keep them under control. High blood pressure, also called hypertension, is known as the “silent killer” because there are often no visible signs or symptoms. The Wellness Center also provides complimentary cholesterol screenings. Visitors are given a record of their results, as well as information on ways they can improve their health. Wellness Center staff can offer information on free and low-cost clinical resources in the neighborhood. What is cholesterol? Cholesterol is a necessary substance found in the body, however, too much cholesterol can pose a health risk. Cholesterol circulates in the blood, and as blood cholesterol levels rise, so does the risk to your health. High cholesterol can lead to thickening of the artery walls, coronary heart disease, heart attack, stroke, and other health ailments. Individuals can improve their numbers by getting tested and tracking their progress over time. It’s important to have cholesterol levels tested regularly. Cholesterol testing is an important preventative measure that requires a simple and easily accessible procedure. The process consists of obtaining a small sample size of blood from a fingerstick and then running it through a diagnostic machine. A Specially Designed Community Center Located on the ground floor of the Jerome L. Greene Science Center, the Wellness Center provides health resources to area residents. ColumbiaDoctors host community-based initiatives that train members of the Harlem community to become health advocates to prevent stroke and promote mental health. The center also provides free cholesterol and blood pressure screenings, health insurance enrollment, weight counseling, and other services. Please note that the Wellness Center is not a clinical practice. Message from the Directors 212-853-1146 [email protected] Categories Screening Jerome L. Greene Science Center610 W. 130th St. · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1146 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close