Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Ceremonies School Ceremonies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Congratulations to the Class of 2022! Contact your individual school with questions related to Class Day ceremonies, and visit the graduating students and announcements pages for the most current updates. The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences holds two convocations to honor its graduating students. PhD Convocation This ceremony celebrates the accomplishments of all PhD candidates in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Date: Sunday, May 15, 2022 Time: 12:00 p.m. Location: South Lawn, Morningside Campus Speaker: David Scott, Ruth and William Lubic Professor and chair of the Columbia Department of Anthropology Diplomas: Diplomas will be mailed following graduation to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file, based on each graduate’s degree conferral date. Verify or update your DP address on Student Services Online (SSOL). Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. School Graduation Website: https://gsas.columbia.edu/content/convocation School Contact: Erin Hussein [email protected] (212) 854-6728 MA Convocation This ceremony celebrates the accomplishments of all MA candidates in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Date: Sunday, May 15, 2022 Time: 2:45 p.m. Location: South Lawn, Morningside Campus Speaker: Adam Tooze, Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of History at Columbia University Diplomas: Diplomas will be mailed following graduation to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file, based on each graduate’s degree conferral date. Verify or update your DP address on Student Services Online (SSOL). Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. School Graduation Website: https://gsas.columbia.edu/content/convocation School Contact: Erin Hussein [email protected] (212) 854-6728 Helpful Links Webcast Announcements School Ceremonies Schedule of Events Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Commencement Office Questions? We're available by email. E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close