Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Communications Main navigation Home About About Us Meet the Team Careers Brand Brand Standards and Guidelines Our Voice Our Look Licensing Licensing and Trademarks Campus Resources External Communications About Media and PR Op-Ed and News Pitching Social Media State Outreach Internal Communications Campus Communications Campus Calendar On-Campus Advertising Campus Communicator Contacts Events at Georgia Tech About Event Planning Event Coordinator Network (External Link) Georgia Tech Special Events (External Link) Photo and Video About Photography and Videography Photo and Video Guides Scheduling a Headshot Websites Website Development Content Strategy Hiring Website Vendors Meeting and Training Opportunities Meetings and Training Presentation Archives (GT Account Required) Media and Vendors Media Inquiries Promotional Inquiries User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search About Us Breadcrumb Home We proudly serve as the voice of Georgia Tech. We are the team accountable for creating and sharing the Georgia Tech narrative and brand identity to attract, engage, celebrate, and publicize all that the Institute offers to students, faculty, staff, alumni, donors, corporations, government officials, and partners. Our Responsibilities Promote awareness of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Preserve the integrity of Georgia Tech’s brand image. Ensure consistency in messaging across all forms of communication. Develop and distribute Institute-level communications. Manage Georgia Tech’s visual identity. Host educational events on various communications and marketing topics. Our Objectives Build awareness of Georgia Tech as a highly respected and highly ranked learning and research institution in Georgia by sharing stories locally, nationally, and globally. Create and maintain an engaged and informed campus community focused on transparency and ethics. Build and protect the reputation of Georgia Tech by sharing consistent and compelling messages, responding to questions, requests, and suggestions readily. Our Team As strategists, writers, artists, designers, digital experts, videographers, photographers, web developers, event specialists, and marketers, we work cross-functionally and collaborate with a campuswide network of communicators. Our team is made up of individuals focusing on these areas: External Communications Media Relations Assists with media and public relations opportunities, direct communication messages, and serves as the official voice of the Institute during times of crisis. Open Records Responds to all requests for public records, in accordance with the Georgia Open Records Act. Social Media Manages the Institute’s flagship social media accounts and sets the strategies and standards for accounts across campus. Research and Academic Communications Faculty Communications Develops messages and strategies, and provides leader support for two-way communication with Tech’s more than 5,000 teaching and research faculty members. Organizational, Academic, and Research Communications Manages communications for members of the Institute's executive leadership team from the Offices of the President, Provost, and Executive Vice President for Research, as well as communications about operational matters in Academics and Research. Campus Culture Campus Communications Produces publications such as the Daily Digest and The Whistle, primarily for internal audiences. Special Events and Protocol Coordinates all Institute-level ceremonies — from Commencement to When the Whistle Blows. Strategic Marketing Analytics Tracks and reports on performance of Institute Communications channels and projects to support data-driven decision-making. Client Relations and Project Management Connects and collaborates with units across campus to offer project management, traffic coordination, and overall brand and communications guidance and support. Creative Strategy Provides content creation and strategy, digital and print design, video, and photography. Digital Strategy and Signage Manages systems and content for websites and digital displays across campus — with the digital signage team maintaining a network of over 350 digital signs, menu boards, directories, and media walls; and the digital strategy team designing and developing web solutions in partnership with Georgia Tech's Office of Information Technology. Licensing and Trademarks Ensures the proper use of Tech’s trademarks, service marks, logos, and insignias. Business Operations Manages, through the information technology and financial administration teams, the daily functionality of all groups within Institute Communications. How We Work Download the 5Cs PDF About Institute Communications About Us Meet the Team Contact Us Institute Communications Georgia Institute of Technology 177 North Avenue NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0181 404.894.0870 Institute Communications Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education