Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement Search Menu Site Navigation Home Class of 2020 Class of 2022 Archive Search Commencement Commencement Weekend May 27-29, 2022 Commencement Weekend May 27-29, 2022 Members of the Class of 2020 and the Class of 2022 will be participating in their own dedicated Commencement ceremonies, as well as other Commencement and Reunion Weekend activities and traditions. Visit your class page below for more information. Information for the Class of 2020 After a two-year delay due to the global pandemic, the Class of 2020 makes a joyous return to College Hill for a highly anticipated celebration in person. Class of 2020 Information for the Class of 2022 This year’s graduates can expect an exhilarating experience packed with a full schedule of events, kicking off with Campus Dance on Friday night and running through to Sunday’s Commencement procession through the Van Wickle Gates. Class of 2022 Livestream Watch Brown's 254th Commencement live, May 28 and 29. Class of 2020 LivestreamClass of 2022 Livestream Notes for a Healthy and Safe Weekend Masks Required Indoors Given increased rates of COVID-19 in Providence County and across the country, Brown has re-instituted its requirement that all individuals — regardless of vaccination status — must wear a well-fitting KN95, KF94, N95 or disposable/surgical mask indoors, unless in a private, non-shared space or when actively eating or drinking. The requirement aligns with guidance from the CDC and recommendations from the Rhode Island Department of Health. Visitors and guests should bring with them to campus, and carry with them at all times, an approved mask. The indoor mask requirement applies to all University-sponsored events, on and off campus, taking place during Commencement and Reunion Weekend and to all attendees: faculty, students, staff, families, visitors, guests and vendors. Masks can be removed indoors by a speaker while making a presentation or delivering a speech. We strongly advise individuals to take a rapid antigen test prior to attending large indoor gatherings. Brown community members, visitors and guests should not attend any University events or functions if they test positive for COVID-19 and/or are experiencing potential symptoms of COVID-19. Throughout your participation in the weekend’s activities, please visit the Healthy Brown website for the most up-to-date information for graduates, families and guests participating in Commencement and Reunion. Bag Checks Please note that, for your safety and the safety of all our graduates and guests, all bags are subject to search. If you need emergency assistance at any time, please call the DPS emergency line at 401-863-4111 or activate the red emergency button on a campus phone (indicated by blue lights). Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Class of 2020 Class of 2022 Archive This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Commencement Weekend Open details for Commencement Weekend Bookmark this Page