Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Awardees Laura L. Ardizzone Laura L. Ardizzone Laura L. Ardizzone ’04, ’10NRS, is the Director of Nurse Anesthesia Services at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and a member of the Executive Nursing Leadership team. Ardizzone received her BSN from the University of Pennsylvania and her Master’s and Doctor of Nursing Practice degrees from the Columbia University School of Nursing. She is a fellow of the New York Academy of Medicine and the American Association of Nurse Anesthetists. She serves on the editorial board for various anesthesia journals and has lectured nationally and internationally on a variety of clinical anesthesia topics. Ardizzone’s commitment to Columbia has spanned over the past 14 years through various activities that support alumni, students, and administrative academic communities. She has served as a Nursing Alumni Association Board member (2014-2021), President (2019-2021), and now President Ex-officio (2021-2022), an Annual Fund member and Chair (2016-2017), and the nursing representative of the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA). She has attended and participated on the Nursing Alumni Reunions Committee since 2008, and various school events, such as New Student Welcome Breakfasts and Annual Dean’s Scholarship Receptions. Ardizzone has attended the Columbia Alumni Leaders Weekends, participating and speaking in the conference sessions. Her biggest honor as an alumna was being cared for by the School of Nursing’s fantastic students after the birth of her twins. Return to Alumni Medalists ’04, ’10NRS Return to Alumni Medalists Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close