Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Wellness Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What We Do About the Center TASHE News Events Meet Our Team Services Ask-A-Nurse Enrollment Assistance Program Health Counseling Training InTOuCH Mental Health First Aid Columbia | Wellness Center You are here: Home Free Enrollment Assistance Program Free Enrollment Assistance Program Having a hard time enrolling in public health insurance through the New York state marketplace? Staff at the Columbia Wellness Center are trained Certified Application Counselors, Navigators, and Marketplace Facilitated Enrollers that can help New Yorkers apply for health insurance, understand their coverage options, and enroll in a plan that is right for them. 2021 Open Enrollment Starts November 1st They can also help individuals renew their coverage. Assistors remove barriers to the application process by providing assistance in either English or Spanish, in community-based settings, and during non-traditional work hours such as weekends and evenings. The upcoming open enrollment season begins on November 1, 2020 and ends on January 31, 2021. Fall/Winter 2020 Office Hours If you would like assistance in understanding your healthcare coverage options, and/or completing the application process, we ask that you use this link to schedule an appointment with a member of our team. http://whenisgood.net/columbiawellnesscenter Once you have filled out the appointment request form, a member of our team will contact you via email to confirm date and time. Note: Depending on the complexity of the application, individuals may meet with their assistor multiple times. Often times we ask that individuals come prepared with the appropriate documents needed for their application, so that the process is smooth and easy. [email protected] Jerome L. Greene Science Center610 W. 130th St. · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1146 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close