Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Communications Office of Communications Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Office.of.Communications@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Our Work Creative Services Media Relations News and Editorial Services Outlets Contact Us Internships Staff Back to Top Nav For Faculty and Staff Dartmouth Public Voices 2019 Fellows 2018 Fellows 2017 Fellows 2016 Fellows 2015 Fellows 2014 Fellows 2012-2013 Fellows Media Training Photography Dartmouth Photos Help Subscribe to Dartmouth News Vox Daily Guidelines Back to Top Nav Visual Identity Overview: Speaking With One Voice FAQ Design Elements Wordmark Brand Marks Color Palette Typography Applying the Visual Identity Stationery Departments Presentation Templates Email Signatures Social Media Photography Trademark Licensing Information Zoom Backgrounds Patterns Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Our Work Creative Services Media Relations News and Editorial Services Outlets Contact Us Internships Staff Share Our Work The Office of Communications promotes the excellence of Dartmouth students, faculty, and staff and produces stories about their impact and contributions to the world. Our Teams The Office is divided into three groups: creative services, media relations, and news and editorial services. Each group produces informative and engaging content about the institution, as well as provides strategic guidance and expertise to Dartmouth community members interested in reaching internal or external audiences. Dartmouth's media relations team facilitates engagement with the media and provides advice on how best to extend reach to external audiences. Social media is managed through media relations. Dartmouth's news and editorial team reports on news about and by the community. The team is responsible for storytelling that populates college-produced communications properties, including the Dartmouth home site, Dartmouth News, and Dartmouth Life—our print publication shared with the alumni body. Dartmouth's creative services team is responsible for graphic design, digital production, photography, and videography for channels managed by the Office of Communications. It also supports high-priority creative projects for offices around campus. Mission The mission of the Office of Communications is to promote and protect Dartmouth's reputation for excellence in teaching, learning and research. Through compelling storytelling and the production of high-quality informative content, we enhance appreciation for Dartmouth's contributions to the world and understanding of its place of distinction within higher education. Vision We seek to use creative, innovative storytelling and content creation to advance the overall vision of enhanced academic excellence for Dartmouth. Values The members of the Office of Communications staff strive to create a culture embodied by the following values: Honesty Integrity Collaboration Innovation Diversity Creativity Hard work Flexibility Adventure Humor Contact Information Lebanon St., Suite 201 Hanover, N.H. 03755 Phone: (603) 646-3661 communications@dartmouth.edu Dartmouth at a Glance. Get to know us fast! Read more in the Dartmouth Fact Book, published by the Office of Institutional Research. Main menu Dartmouth College Office of Communications About Our Work Creative Services Media Relations News and Editorial Services Outlets Contact Us Internships Staff For Faculty and Staff Dartmouth Public Voices 2019 Fellows 2018 Fellows 2017 Fellows 2016 Fellows 2015 Fellows 2014 Fellows 2012-2013 Fellows Media Training Photography Dartmouth Photos Help Subscribe to Dartmouth News Vox Daily Guidelines Visual Identity Overview: Speaking With One Voice FAQ Design Elements Wordmark Brand Marks Color Palette Typography Applying the Visual Identity Stationery Departments Presentation Templates Email Signatures Social Media Photography Trademark Licensing Information Zoom Backgrounds Patterns Ribbon Footer Style Guide The Dartmouth visual identity system comprises several elements that together create a look and feel that is distinctly Dartmouth. Find downloads and Dartmouth’s style guide. Close People Get in Touch Please Complete Our Contact Form Find Us Address Dartmouth College 7 Lebanon St., Suite 201 Hanover, N.H. 03755Map Phone: 646-3661 HB: HB 6006 Email: Office.of.Communications@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Close Style Guide Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback