Harvard Online Giving Form Are you a registered user? Log in to populate the relevant information from your alumni profile. Login Thank you for making a gift to Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies. We appreciate your support. Note: If you encounter difficulties giving online, please contact Alumni & Development Services (ADS) at ads@harvard.edu or 617-495-1750. (Please do not email credit card numbers.) Your Gift Gift Amount Options Help Text: Please select a Gift Amount, Harvard School or Affiliate, and a fund where your gift should be directed? Gift Amount Options. Please select a Gift Amount, Harvard School or Affiliate, and a fund where your gift should be directed. $50 $100 $250 $500 $1000 Other Amount Please consider joining the Amici dei Tatti at the $600 level. The Amici are invited to public lectures and concerts at the Center, as well as to programs sponsored by I Tatti in the USA and elsewhere. Select a Fund *required None Selected I Tatti General Fund Friends of the I Tatti Library Fototeca Berenson OTHER Other Fund Name *required This is a joint gift from both my spouse / partner and me. Select this option to share credit for this gift with your Spouse or Partner. Help Text: Select this option to share credit for this gift with your Spouse or Partner.? Spouse/Partner First Name *required Spouse/Partner Last Name *required Spouse/Partner Class Year Spouse/Partner School None Selected American Repertory Theatre Faculty of Arts and Sciences Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Graduate School of Design Graduate School of Education Harvard Business School Harvard College Harvard Divinity School Harvard Extension School Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Harvard's Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Nieman Foundation Radcliffe College Radcliffe Institute University Interfaculty Initiatives This is a pledge payment. Select this option if you have an existing pledge and would like to indicate this gift as a pledge payment. Help Text: Select this option if you have an existing pledge and would like to indicate this gift as a pledge payment. ? Pledge Details *required My and/or my spouse's employer will match my/our gift. Please select this option if your employer has a matching gift program. Help Text: Please select this option if your employer has a matching gift program ? Employer *required Note: Please submit the necessary paperwork to your employer. Giving Frequency Help Text: Please choose between a one-time or recurring gift type. ? Giving Frequency. Please choose between a one-time or recurring gift type One-Time Gift Recurring Gift This is a one-time gift. This is a recurring gift. I agree that by clicking the Recurring Gift button above that I am giving Harvard my consent to charge my credit card today and on subsequent dates based on the frequency selected below, until such time that I notify Harvard University of my intention to cancel the recurring gift. Donor must notify Alumni & Development Services at Harvard University in writing at ads@harvard.edu or by calling 617-495-1750 to cancel a recurring subscription 14 days prior to next monthly or annual charge date.*required Help Text in html; Help txt recurring gift consent? Payment Frequency *required None Selected Annually Monthly Recurring Start Date *required Your Contact Information Title None Selected Miss Mr. Mrs. Ms. Dean Dr. Father Gen. Hon. Justice Imam Judge Justice King Lady Lt. Lt. (JG) Lt. Cdr. Lt. Col. Lt. Gen. Lt. Gov. Maestro Maj. Maj. Gen. Monsignor Most Rev. Mother Prince Princess Prof. Rabbi Rear Adm. Rev. Rev. Canon Rev. Dr. Rev. Mr. Rev. Mrs. Rt. Hon. Rt. Hon. Lord Rt. Rev. Rt. Rev. Dr. S. Sgt. Sen. Sgt. Sir Sister The Honorable The Honorable Justice The Most Honorable The Most Reverend The Reverend The Reverend Canon The Reverend Doctor The Reverend Mister The Right Honorable The Right Reverend The Right Reverend Doctor The Venerable Very Rev. Vice Adm. Viscount Viscountess First Name *required Middle Name Last Name *required Suffix None Selected Jr. Sr. II III IV IX V VI VII VIII Class Year School None Selected American Repertory Theatre Faculty of Arts and Sciences Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Graduate School of Design Graduate School of Education Harvard Business School Harvard College Harvard Divinity School Harvard Extension School Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Harvard's Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Nieman Foundation Radcliffe College Radcliffe Institute University Interfaculty Initiatives Country *required None Selected Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Aruba Australia Austria Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium Belize Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil British Citizenship British Solomon Islands British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Islands Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Channel Islands Chile Colombia Comoro Islands Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic People's Republic of Korea Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador England Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland Foreign Phone Only France French Guiana French Polynesia Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland Independent State of Samoa India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Monaco Mongolia Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Northern Ireland Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian National Authority Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay People's Republic of China Peru Philippines Pitcairn Island Poland Portugal Qatar Republic of Armenia Republic of Azerbaijan Republic of Belarus Republic of Benin Republic of Congo Republic of Djibouti Republic of Kazakhstan Republic of Korea Republic of Moldova Republic of Montenegro Republic of Serbia Republic of South Sudan Republic of Sudan Republic of Tajikistan Republic of Uzbekistan Republic of Yemen Reunion Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and The Grenadines San Marino Sao Tome And Principe Saudi Arabia Scotland Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Surinam Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu USA Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates Uruguay Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wales Zaire Zambia Zimbabwe Contact Address line one Contact Address line two City State or province Zip or postal code Email *required Daytime Phone Number *required Your Donation Please fill out your gift information You may include up to five gifts on a single donation form × Session Timeout Approaching For security reasons, your session will end in a few minutes. Select OK to continue editing. OK × Your Session Has Timed Out For security reasons, your session has been timed-out. Select OK to refresh the page and try again. OK × Confirm Gift? We see that you just gave a similar gift. Are you sure you want to proceed and give another one? Yes, make gift Cancel Other Ways to Give Planned Giving Harvard University | Privacy © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College 1