Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Baccalaureate Service Baccalaureate Service Congratulations to the Class of 2022! The Baccalaureate Service will be webcast live on Sunday, May 15, at 10:00 a.m. (EDT). Please refresh your web browser to watch the video once the event is live. *Closed captioning and a PDF of the program is available for this event. 2022 Participants Student Benjamin Barth School Columbia College Tradition Jewish Student Barbara Chrobak School Barnard College Tradition Catholic Student Edna Egal School Columbia College Tradition Muslim Student Isabelle Eshraghi School Barnard College Tradition Baha’i Student Blake Jones School Columbia College Tradition Episcopalian Student Ariel Katz School School of General Studies, Jewish Theological Seminary Tradition Jewish Student Hana Kaur Mangat School Columbia College Tradition Sikh Student Aliza Shivanni Ramdass School The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Tradition Hindu History The Baccalaureate Service is believed to have originated at Oxford University in 1432 when each bachelor was required to deliver a sermon in Latin as part of his academic exercise. This historical British practice continued with the earliest universities in this country, which were founded primarily to educate ministers. Columbia University began this tradition in 1897 and the ceremony continues today as an interfaith, intercultural service celebrating each undergraduate's academic career. Accessibility Columbia University is committed to ensuring that all Commencement activities are accessible to all graduates and guests. Closed captions, a full transcript of the ceremony, and a downloadable PDF program are available above. If you have any questions, please contact Disability Services. Learn more about the Office of Religious Life and the Baccalaureate Service. Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close