Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Awardees Laurie Magid Laurie Magid Laurie Magid, Esq. '85 LAW has been an Assistant United States Attorney in the U.S. Attorney's Office in Philadelphia for two decades. Living just a stone’s throw from Independence Hall, Laurie and her husband Jeffrey Miller appreciate the history of their neighborhood, but also love the proximity to their New York family and Columbia community. Magid graduated from Columbia Law School in 1985. She has taught at Villanova, Rutgers, Temple, and Widener Law Schools. In 2010, with her three wonderful children—Julia, Henry, and Nick—grown, Magid found that she had the time to engage more deeply with the Columbia community. After serving on her 25th-year Reunion Committee, she joined the Columbia Law School Alumni Association as a Regional Vice President for four years, then served as the President for four years, and now serves as an Advisor. In 2017, she joined the Columbia Alumni Association where she serves on the Arts Access Committee, the Programs Committee, and the Leaders Weekend Steering Committee. In 2018, she was the Vice Chair of Leaders Weekend, and in 2019 she chaired the CAA’s signature event. Magid was an inaugural member of the Alumnae Leadership Group, and has helped plan the “She Opened the Door” events, including the conference with Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. This year, Magid joined the University Senate where she serves on the External Relations and Government Affairs Committee, and is co-chair of the Alumni Relations Committee. At the Law School, she serves on the Harlan Fiske Stone Council and the Public Interest/Public Service Council, and mentors students, especially women and first-generation professional students. In addition to Columbia, her other significant commitments are as a Board member of Congregation Beit Simchat Torah, the LGBT synagogue in New York City, where she focuses on criminal justice reform issues, particularly clemency and reentry to communities after incarceration; and as the doting grandmother of her adorable one-year old granddaughter, Louisa. Return to Alumni Medalists '85 LAW Return to Alumni Medalists Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close