Skip to main content Commencement Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Commencement Visit Rutgers.edu Open Search Commencement Rutgers–New Brunswick & RBHS Commencement Gifts for Graduates Show Your Scarlet Pride School Convocations Steps to Commencement FAQ Rutgers–Newark Commencement Rutgers–Camden Commencement Open Search Commencement Open Search Open Menu Close Rutgers–New Brunswick & RBHS Commencement Rutgers–Newark Commencement Rutgers–Camden Commencement Visit Rutgers.edu Rutgers Commencement Rutgers Commencement 2022 Congratulations Class of 2022! Select your campus below. Rutgers University–New Brunswick and Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Commencement The Rutgers University’s 256th Anniversary Commencement took place on Sunday, May 15, 2022. President Jonathan Holloway addressed the degree candidates and guests and confered the degrees. Rutgers University–Newark Commencement Rutgers University–Newark 2022 Commencement took place on Monday, May 16, 2022 at the Prudential Center. Rutgers University–Camden Commencement Rutgers University–Camden commencement and convocation ceremonies were held on Tuesday, May 17 and Wednesday, May 18, 2022. Meet the Class of 2022 Graduate Profile A Voice in the Crowd: Graduating senior a “fierce advocate” for immigrant rights Tania Martinez recalled that, as a young girl, she witnessed rallies for immigrant rights. That experience would leave a lasting impression. “I was inspired to try to create change. I saw how much power there is in communities coming together,” said the Camden resident. Graduate Profile Rutgers Senior Works to Recruit Minority Men in Medicine Kevin Carolina wants to become a physician so people like his grandfather, his barber, and other Black men he knows will gain trust in doctors and no longer get sick and die prematurely. Find out how he is making a difference. Graduate Profile Graduate Pursues Neuroscientific Research to Improve Health Among Minority Patients During years of armed conflict in her homeland of Colombia, Diana Grass, daughter of a military family, relocated 20 times and attended 13 different public schools before becoming the first woman in her family to attend college. Graduate Profile Former Daily Targum Editor Steered Paper Through Journalism Industry Changes The Daily Targum was in the midst of a watershed moment when Hayley Slusser took over as editor in chief in February 2021. Graduate Profile Mother Navigates Her Baby’s Autism Journey While Earning Rutgers Degree Students who come to college later in life often describe that process as a journey. But few have travelled as far – geographically or emotionally – as Cassie Botnick. Graduate Profile Engineering Student Helps Bring Back Rutgers Dance Marathon When Soham Shah began planning the logistics for this year’s Rutgers University Dance Marathon, he drew on some skills he didn’t expect to use from his experience as a mechanical engineering major. Read More Class of 2022 Profiles Site Footer New Brunswick RBHS/Health Newark Camden Commencements Rutgers University-New Brunswick and RBHS Rutgers University-Newark Rutgers University-Camden Academics Office of the RBHS Registrar Office of the Registrar, New Brunswick Connect Email commencement@rutgers.edu Call 848-932-2469 Notices University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Follow Us Copyright Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2021, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster | Sitemap