Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Graduates Commencement Week Checklist Commencement Week Checklist Below is a checklist of everything you need to do in the months, weeks, and days leading up to Commencement, and a few tips for the day itself. To be considered for a degree or certificate and to obtain a diploma, you must file an application with your school or department. If you have not already done so, please visit the website of the Office of the University Registrar. Expand all Collapse all March 2022 Verify your address! Diplomas will be sent to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file and may be updated on Student Services Online (SSOL). If there is no DP address through SSOL, the diploma will not be sent, and the student will need to make retrieval arrangements with the Office of the University Registrar. Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. For Barnard College graduates, use my.barnard.edu and submit your diploma address through the graduation application. For Teachers College graduates, use my.tc.columbia.edu to update your diploma mailing address under Student Resources. Get your cap and gown! Regalia is mandatory for all graduation events. Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees: Orders can be placed in store starting March 8. Online orders may be placed beginning March 14 and ending April 27 to be directly shipped to the student by visiting columbia.shopoakhalli.com. Doctoral Degrees: Regalia may be reserved in store from March 8 through April 11 without incurring a late fee. In-store pickup and ship-to-home options are available. Online orders may be placed beginning March 14 and ending March 31 by visiting columbia.shopoakhalli.com. Doctoral rental regalia will be available for pickup in-store beginning May 5. A ship-to-home option is not available online. Check with your individual school prior to placing your regalia order to find out more about any unique instructions. 2022 Grad Fair: March 8-10 at the Morningside University Bookstore from 11:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Distribution of bachelor and master souvenir packs begins. March 11 at the Medical Center Bookstore from 11:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Are you a singer or signer? Audition to sing or sign at University Commencement! Round 1: Send us your audition video to sing or sign at University Commencement. Deadline to submit is Friday, April 1, 2022, at 12:00 p.m. Round 2: The Commencement Office will be conducting callbacks in April. If selected, additional details will be provided to you for a second audition. Final Results: The performer(s) will be confirmed by the end of April. Selected student(s) will perform "The Star-Spangled Banner" and “Lift Every Voice and Sing” live on Commencement Day, Wednesday, May 18. April 2022 Register to participate in the Baccalaureate Service. Get your cap and gown! Regalia is mandatory for all graduation events. All academic attire, including the cap and gown, is ordered through the Columbia University Bookstore. Check with your individual school prior to placing your regalia order to find out more about any unique instructions. May 2022 Good luck with your final exams! University Commencement will take place on Wednesday, May 18, 2022 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT). The Celebration for the Classes 2020 and 2021 will take place on Thursday, May 19, 2022 on Morningside Campus at 9:00 a.m. (EDT) Connect with the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA) about the great benefits available to you after graduation. University Commencement Scheduled to take place on Wednesday, May 18, 2022, at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) on Morningside Campus. Be prepared for the candidate lineup starting at 7:45 a.m. Make sure to inform your guests about what they should bring with them on Commencement day. After Commencement If you haven’t already: Verify your address for diploma delivery. Look above at the March 2022 section for more details. Update your information in the Alumni Directory for exclusive invitations, alumni benefits, and opportunities that you are now eligible for as a member of the Columbia Alumni Association. Helpful Links Webcast Announcements School Ceremonies Schedule of Events Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Commencement Office Questions? We're available by email. E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs RESOURCE HIGHLIGHTS School Ceremonies Each school honors its graduates with a separate graduation ceremony Disability Services Learn how we facilitate equal access for students with disabilities Frequently Asked Questions Find answers to frequently asked questions and helpful tips about Commencement Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close