Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Student Reflection Speaker Apply to be our next student reflection speaker Graduates are invited to apply to be the Georgia Tech student Commencement reflection speaker at this semester's Commencement exercises. A student for each ceremony will be selected by a panel of faculty, administrators, and students to share an inspirational message at the respective ceremonies. Eligibility Applicants must be graduates at their ceremony. Selected finalists must be in both academic and judicial good standing. Those who have a history of participation in campus and/or community activities are preferred, but not required. Speech Requirements The reflection speech is two to three minutes in length (approximately 250 words). The reflection message should be secular in tone, providing inspiration to the graduates, recounting times with other Tech students, and calling the audience to action around a certain message. Applicants must feel comfortable speaking at a podium in front of a very large audience. We encourage students to view previous speeches and visit with the Communication Center to help them prepare their speech. Selection Process All submissions will be reviewed by a committee consisting of faculty and staff, who will select multiple finalists. Those finalists will then be asked to present a full version of their speech to the committee during the spring semester. Once selected, the speaker is required to work with the Communication Center during the semester and meet in-person with event organizers for final review prior to Commencement. Students do not need to be living on campus to qualify, but must return to campus by Thursday, May 5. Application Deadline Click here for the application page and FAQs. The deadline for Spring 2022 submissions is March 28 at 12:00 p.m. For more information, contact Debbie Dorsey in the Students Affairs office at 404.385.1562. Deadline Extension for Ph.D. graduates! Ph.D. graduates have until Tuesday, April 5, at 5 p.m. to submit their reflection speech. Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN