Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home University Commencement Ceremony University Commencement Ceremony The Columbia University Commencement ceremony of the 268th academic year, will take place on Wednesday, May 18, 2022 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT). All eligible April, May, and June 2022 degree candidates, and February 2022 and October 2021 graduates, from all schools and colleges affiliated with Columbia University, as well as family and friends, are encouraged to join in on the celebration. An archived video of the ceremony and digital program will be available for viewing shortly after the live webcast. More details will be available in the coming weeks. For questions related to Class Day ceremonies, contact your individual school, and visit the announcements page for the most current updates. About The Ceremony The Commencement ceremony dates back to 1758 and has been held outdoors on the Morningside campus since 1926. It is a centuries-old tradition in which the President of the University grants degrees en masse to graduating students from nineteen schools, colleges, and affiliate institutions. During this ceremony, remarkable members of the Columbia community and special guests are also recognized through the conferring of medals, awards, and honorary degrees. It is Columbia tradition that the University Commencement address is given by the President of the University. While each school holds an individual graduation ceremony, the University President is the only person who can confer the actual degrees. As part of the ceremony, each dean steps forward to request that the President confer degrees on the school's candidates; this tradition has become a memorable part of the ceremony. After the University President has conferred all degrees, cheers, applause, and celebration ensue as the class officially graduates. With thousands of degree candidates, participants, and guests in attendance, the ceremony is an unforgettable, grand-scale celebration that appropriately marks the academic achievements of the University graduates. No degree candidate officially graduates until the University Commencement ceremony concludes. Honorary Degree Recipients Columbia University will confer honorary degrees and recognize the alum who will receive its University Medal for Excellence at its annual Commencement exercises on May 18, 2022. This recognition is given to individuals who exemplify the ideals of the University through their significant scholarly, artistic, or societal achievements or contributions. Meet the 2022 Recipients Teaching Awards Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching are given to faculty and graduate student instructors who have significantly influenced the intellectual development of Columbia students. For more information about this award, visit Office of the Provost. Meet the 2022 Recipients Mentoring Awards Faculty Mentoring Awards, inspired by the incredible mentoring legacy of Columbia Business School Professor Katherine W. Phillips, are given to senior faculty who have demonstrated an exceptional commitment to the professional development of their junior colleagues. For more information about this award, visit Office of the Provost. Meet the 2022 Recipients Service Awards Faculty Service Awards recognize full-time faculty whose extraordinary and creative voluntary service has contributed significantly to the University’s diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) efforts. For more information about this award, visit Office of the Provost. Meet the 2022 Recipients Alumni Medalist Awards Columbia Alumni Medalists are recognized for building Columbia's community - whether regionally, online, in specific Schools, or in cross-campus initiatives. Recipients are honored at University Commencement and at the Alumni Medalists Gala during Columbia Alumni Leaders Weekend. For more information about this award, visit the Columbia Alumni Association. Meet the 2022 Recepients Commencement History & Regalia University Commencement has been a Columbia tradition since 1758, when the first ceremony was held at St. George's Chapel on Beekman Street. Learn more about the history of the ceremony and some of the traditions still observed today. Learn More WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 2022 The Ceremony 10:30 a.m. (EDT) Location Morningside Campus Speaker In keeping with tradition, the University President is the Commencement speaker. Live Webcast Watch the ceremony here. Commencement Office Questions? We're available by email. E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs EXPLORE MORE Graduating Students Announcements Faculty & Staff Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close