Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Accessibility and Special Needs Accessibility is a top priority at Georgia Tech. If you or your party has any special needs, ushers stationed inside the venue will be happy to assist you. Accessibility and Special Needs Guest Drop-Off and Handicap Parking All guest drop-off and pick-up is at the intersection of Techwood Drive and Bobby Dodd Way. Guests with a valid handicap parking tag may park on Brittain Drive and Fowler Street, located next to Peters Parking Deck. Wheelchairs Wheelchairs will not be available at the venue. For those requiring a wheelchair, we suggest a private rental from one of these companies: Complete Home Medical Equipment, 404.292.6525 Accucare Medical Equipment, 770.512.0090 Enterprise Medical Services, 770.788.1505 or 866.607.1612 Accessible Seating for Guests with Disabilities and Limited Mobility ADA seating is available on a first-come, first-served basis. The area where ADA seating is located can be found on the seating maps for each ceremony on the Venue and Ceremony page. Due to high demand, this area is strictly reserved for our ADA patrons plus one companion. For guests requiring a wheelchair spot, you and your companion will be assigned a seat. Students must indicate on their RSVP they have a guest in a wheelchair to receive a wheelchair spot. Strollers Strollers are not allowed into Bobby Dodd Stadium. Bag valet is located across the street from Gate 6 on the top of Peters Parking Deck if guests wish to check in their stroller (car seat carriers may also be checked in too). Exceptions will be made to the bag policy for parents to bring in a cross body baby carrier or diaper bag, which will require additional screening. Contact the gate supervisor to have your diaper bag screened and approved. Hearing-Impaired Guests For guests who are deaf or hearing impaired, a Communication Access Realtime Translation (CART) reporter will generate captioning for the video screens in the venue. You may also contact the Commencement Office to request an American Sign Language interpreter. Please email the office at events@comm.gatech.edu or call 404.385.2638. Visually-Impaired Guests Large print programs are available by request. To ensure availability, please notify the Commencement Office at least five days in advance if you require a large print program or require special accommodations. You may contact the Commencement Office at events@comm.gatech.edu or call 404.385.2638. Special Requests If you require additional services or have questions, please call 404.385.2638 or email events@comm.gatech.edu. Our top priority is an enjoyable experience for all of our guests. Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN