Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Awardees Francine Glick Francine Glick Francine Glick ’77BC has been engaged with Columbia since her days as a student, as a Director of the Columbia Board of Managers as well as a DJ at WKCR. She is the founding partner of Echo Strategic Consultants, a full-service consulting firm, advising entrepreneurs and midrange businesses. Echo takes a whole company approach to solving problems. She is also CEO of Water Journey, a personal care products company and holds two patents for Hands2GO, an alcohol-free hand sanitizer. Glick has been enthusiastically involved with the university for many years. She is her class President and its class agent. She was previously VP of the Alumni Association of Barnard College, and she has chaired the Nominating Committee, the Awards Committee, the Professional and Leadership Development Committee, and has been a member of the Leadership, Reunion, and Fellowship committees. Glick was a member of the Columbia Alumni Leaders Weekend Steering Committee and currently is Co-Chair of the Alumni Leadership group, responsible for She Opened the Door programming. Glick recently developed and presented a workshop for the Barnard Entrepreneurs Network (BEnet) to assist entrepreneurs and division heads who are stuck or need to pivot. Glick lives with her husband in Morningside Heights, and they have two daughters and four grandchildren. Return to Alumni Medalists ’77BC Return to Alumni Medalists Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close