Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Community Service - 75 Years of Giving in Harlem and Morningside Heights Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Impact Get Involved Apply for a Grant Grantees History News and Stories Join an Event Volunteer for a CCS Grantee Become a CCS Ambassador Columbia Community Service - 75 Years of Giving in Harlem and Morningside Heights Home Columbia Community Service 75 Years of Giving to Harlem and Morningside Heights Donate Thanks to donors like you, we were able to raise $400,000 for the 75th Annual Appeal by December 31st, but there's still much more work to do. Over the coming months, we will continue to fundraise, connect volunteers, and provide support to our numerous grantees in any way we can, as well as preparing to distribute grants to both new and familiar organizations this summer. The appeal began in 1946, when a small group of female faculty members and civically engaged women sent a letter to all Columbia faculty and staff asking for contributions to social service organizations and charities that were helping families and communities navigate the challenges of the post-World War II period. Today, CCS remains committed to improving the lives of people in Harlem and Morningside Heights. Your legacy of employee giving makes this work possible. 100% of your tax-deductible contributions are distributed as grant awards to community organizations working to combat hunger, support youth education, and ensure equitable social services. Quick Links link icon Explore our Grantees commenting icon Contact Us users icon Staff and Leadership handshake icon Get Involved newspaper icon News Making a Difference Lessons at Bloomingdale School of Music. Volunteer This National Volunteer Month, Here Are 11 Opportunities With CCS Grantees April 05, 2022 Enjoy the outdoors—or don't—with these opportunities to give back to the Harlem and Morningside Heights communities. Funding Columbia Community Service Is Now Accepting Grant Inquiries February 10, 2022 In 2021, CCS provided $300,000 in grants to 52 nonprofit organizations in Harlem and Morningside Heights. Annual Appeal Thank You For Being a CCS Donor! 75th Annual Appeal Update January 27, 2022 Thanks to a generous donation to match the contributions made by first-time and end of year donors to CCS, we are just $50,000 away from our goal. More News Our Grantees Behind the Book Harlem Wellness Center Triple F Empowerment Inc. West Side Campaign Against Hunger (WSCAH) edit edit edit edit See All of Our Grantees Events There are no upcoming events. Phone (212) 854-3638 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close