Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Wellness Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What We Do About the Center TASHE News Events Meet Our Team Services Ask-A-Nurse Enrollment Assistance Program Health Counseling Training InTOuCH Mental Health First Aid Columbia | Wellness Center You are here: Home What We Do Health Education Health Education Health education builds a community's knowledge, skills, and positive attitudes about health. Health education teaches about physical, mental, emotional and social health. It motivates individuals to improve and maintain their health, prevent disease, and reduce risky behaviors. The first wealth is health. - Ralph Waldo Emerson Health education improves the health status of individuals, families, communities, states, and the nation. It enhances the quality of life for all people and reduces premature deaths. By focusing on prevention, health education reduces the costs (both financial and socio-emotional) that individuals, families, and communities would spend on medical treatment. A Specially Designed Community Center Located on the ground floor of the Jerome L. Greene Science Center, the Wellness Center provides health resources to area residents. ColumbiaDoctors host community-based initiatives that train members of the Harlem community to become health advocates to prevent stroke and promote mental health. The center also provides free cholesterol and blood pressure screenings, health insurance enrollment, weight counseling, and other services. Please note that the Wellness Center is not a clinical practice. Message from the Directors 212-853-1146 [email protected] Categories Screening Jerome L. Greene Science Center610 W. 130th St. · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1146 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close