Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 - webcast Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 - webcast Welcome to the Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021! Thank you for joining us to celebrate the incredible accomplishments of these two recent alumni classes. Scroll down for the full virtual celebration experience and get to know our graduates. Watch the Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 above or on one of our other webcasts. The ceremony is best viewed on a desktop, laptop, or tablet. Closed captions are available on all webcast platforms. Columbia Homepage YouTube Panopto For a PDF of the Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 program above, download it here. DISCOVER COMMENCEMENT 2020 Commencement Stories 2021 Commencement Stories Virtual Graduation Kit Commencement History & Regalia LEARN MORE ABOUT THE 2020 AND 2021 AWARD RECIPIENTS Expand all Collapse all 2020 Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching Faculty Awards Raymond D. Horton Frank R. Lautenberg Professor of Ethics and Corporate Governance Management Division Columbia Business School Jean E. Howard George Delacorte Professor in the Humanities Department of English and Comparative Literature Bert Huang Michael I. Sovern Professor of Law Columbia Law School Stacy Kinirons Assistant Professor of Programs in Physical Therapy Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Paola Maria Valenti Senior Lecturer in the Discipline of International and Public Affairs School of International and Public Affairs Graduate Student Instructor Awards Michael Naft Department of Psychology Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Diana Rose Newby Department of English and Comparative Literature Graduate School of Arts and Science Ashley Simone (1988-2021) Department of Classics Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Expand all Collapse all 2021 Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching Faculty Awards Denise Cruz Associate Professor of English and Comparative Literature Department of English and Comparative Literature Faculty of Arts and Sciences Jeremy Dodd Senior Lecturer in the Discipline of Physics Department of Physics Faculty of Arts and Sciences Jasmine A. McDonald Assistant Professor of Epidemiology Department of Epidemiology Mailman School of Public Health Timothy Mitchell William B. Ransford Professor of Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies Department of Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Katherine E. Reuther Senior Lecturer in the Discipline of Design, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship Department of Biomedical Engineering The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate Student Instructor Awards Daniella Cádiz Bedini Department of English and Comparative Literature Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Miguel Ángel Garrido Department of Statistics Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Christopher Medina-Kirchner Department of Psychology Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Expand all Collapse all 2020 Faculty Mentoring Award Marianne Hirsch William Peterfield Trent Professor of English Department of English and Comparative Literature Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Ellie Hisama Professor of Music, Music Theory and Historical Musicology Department of Music Darcy Kelley Harold Weintraub Professor of Biological Sciences Department of Biological Sciences Gillian Metzger Harlan Fiske Stone Professor of Constitutional Law Codirector, Center for Constitutional Governance Columbia Law School Mae Ngai Lung Family Professor of Asian American Studies and Professor of History Codirector, Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race Expand all Collapse all 2021 Faculty Mentoring Award Rachel Adams Professor of English and Comparative Literature Department of English and Comparative Literature Faculty of Arts and Sciences Nabila El-Bassel University Professor and Willma and Albert Musher Professor of Social Work School of Social Work Virginia Page Fortna Harold Brown Professor of U.S. Foreign and Security Policy Department of Political Science Faculty of Arts and Sciences Expand all Collapse all 2021 Faculty Service Award Marcel Agüeros Associate Professor of Astronomy Department of Astronomy Faculty of Arts and Sciences Casey N. Blake Mendelson Family Professor of American Studies Director of Center for American Studies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Geraldine Downey Niven Professor of Humane Letters Department of Psychology Faculty of Arts and Sciences Cristiane Duarte Ruane Professor for the Implementation of Child Mental Health for Child & Adolescent Mental Health at Columbia University Irving Medical Center Department of Psychiatry Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Jean E. Howard George Delacorte Professor in the Humanities Department of English and Comparative Literature Faculty of Arts and Sciences Jamal Joseph Professor of Professional Practice Department of Film School of the Arts #ROARLIONS2020 & #ROARLIONS2021 Scroll to learn more about our graduates School Ceremonies Individual schools are working to provide opportunities for their graduates to gather with each other during this time. Please reach out to your school contact, listed below, for more details. Expand all Collapse all Architecture, Planning and Preservation School Contact: Esther Turay [email protected] (212) 854-9543 Arts School Contact: SOA Student Affairs [email protected] (212) 851-0248 Barnard College School Contact: Office of Alumnae Relations [email protected] [email protected] Business School School Contact: Dean's Office [email protected] (212) 854-0225 Executive MBA School Contact: Brandon Kelly [email protected] MBA School Contact: Laura Tierney [email protected] MS School Contact: Elizabeth Elam [email protected] PhD School Contact: Elizabeth Elam [email protected] Climate School School Contact: Cynthia Thomson [email protected] Columbia College Date: Thursday, May 19, 2022 Time: 4:00-6:30 p.m. Location: Southfield, Morningside Campus Celebration Website School Contact: Columbia College Events [email protected] Dental Medicine School Contact: Melissa Welsh Alumni & CE Director Columbia College of Dental Medicine [email protected] (212) 305-6881 Engineering and Applied Science Date: Thursday, May 19, 2022 Time: 12:30-3:00 p.m. Location: Southfield, Morningside Campus School Contact: Columbia Engineering Events [email protected] General Studies School Contact: GS Student Life [email protected] (212) 854-9536 Graduate School of Arts and Sciences School Contact: Erin Hussein [email protected] (212) 854-6728 International and Public Affairs School Contact: Susan Storms Director, Alumni Affairs [email protected] (212) 854-8598 Journalism School School Contact: Melanie Huff [email protected] (917) 834-2571 Julie Pozo-Cepeda [email protected] Law Information on the Law School Celebration School Contact: Denise Dilley [email protected] 212-854-7562 Mailman School of Public Health School Contact: Columbia Mailman Office of Development and Alumni Relations [email protected] Nursing School Contact: Sharon Sobel Assistant Director, Alumni Relations [email protected] (212) 305-5999 Professional Studies School Contact Email: Office of Alumni Relations [email protected] Social Work School Contact: Ana Angeles [email protected] Teachers College Date: Sunday, May 22 Time: 4:00 p.m. Location: Louis Armstrong Stadium in the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center Speaker: Dr. Anthony Fauci, Chief Medical Advisor to the President of the United States and Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) School Graduation Website School Contact: Convocation Help Desk [email protected] (212) 678-4039 Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Physicians and Surgeons School Contact: Andrea Patterson [email protected] Institute of Human Nutrition School Contact: Sarah Bergren [email protected] (212) 342-3804 Programs in Ocupational Therapy School Contact: Jessica Bussey [email protected] Programs in Physical Therapy School Contact: Kimberly Whittam-Dougherty [email protected] Program in Genetic Counseling School Contact: Amanda Bergner, MS, CGC [email protected] (212) 304-6500 Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Graduates in regalia on Low Steps Slide 2: Graduates on Low Steps Previous Next Expand all Collapse all FAQs How should I prepare? Be prepared to enter campus with these items before the candidate lineup starts on upper campus at 8:00 a.m. for the Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Make sure to inform your guests about what they should bring with them on Commencement day. Cap Ticket Proof of Vaccination, or Negative COVID-19 Test (time-stamped photo of an at-home antigen test on the day of each event or email results of a PCR test within 48 hours of the first attended event) Mask Water Bottle Prepare for inclement weather Feeling sick? Stay home and tune in virtually. Who can attend these make-up celebrations? 2020 and 2021 graduates may attend these celebrations and activities. Each graduate is allowed to bring 2 (two) guests. Is registration and/or tickets required to participate? Registration is required to participate in these make-up activities and will open in April. Be on the lookout for a communication from your school with more details and update your information in the Columbia Alumni Association directory to stay informed. Is regalia required for Class of 2020 and Class of 2021 celebrations and activities? Full regalia is optional for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 but caps will be required. Regalia is available from the Columbia University Bookstore or online. Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees: Orders can be placed in-store starting March 8. Online orders may be placed beginning March 14 and ending April 27 to be directly shipped to the student by visiting columbia20202021.shopoakhalli.com. Doctoral Degrees: Head wear may be reserved in store from March 8 through April 11th without incurring a late fee. In-store pickup and ship-to-home options are available. Online orders may be placed beginning March 14 and ending April 27 by visiting columbia20202021.shopoakhalli.com. Head wear and accessories ordered will be shipped directly to your home. How can I obtain documentation for my visa? Please reach out to your individual school to receive any documentation related to obtaining visas. Can I volunteer as an alumni for Commencement Week activities? We welcome alumni to volunteer as Event Hosts for ceremonies held on the Morningside Campus. Event Hosts provide welcoming support and guidance to graduates and their guests attending events on campus from Friday, March 13, through Wednesday, May 18. For more information, please email [email protected] How can I make disability accommodations for myself and guests? Those requiring accommodations during the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Celebration and corresponding events, including alumni and guests whose disabilities limit their ability to walk or negotiate stairs, should contact Disability Services at [email protected] by Wednesday, May 4. To learn more visit Disability Services. What time should I arrive? Below is the timeline for this event. 7:30 a.m. Gates open for General Admission Outdoor seating: Line forms on Broadway at 115th Street to access General Admission gates Disability access: For individuals with disabilities or limited mobility, and those needing assistance, line forms at 115th and 116th Streets and Amsterdam Avenue 8:00 a.m. Graduate lineup begins 8:30 a.m. Graduate procession begins 9:00 a.m. Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 begins Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close