Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Centers for Equity Community and Leadership Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Community Centers About ECL ECL Community Events Upcoming Events Past Events Resources & Partnerships About ECL Main content start Jan Barker-Alexander Assistant Vice Provost for Student Affairs and Executive Director for the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership From the beginning of the first Community Center in 1969 to the last one in 2013, our Centers continue to set a foundation of flourishing, belonging, achievement, excellence, and activism for students at Stanford. We are spaces and places that educate about and confront challenging, nuanced issues, and create space for emotion and intellectual vitality to collide. We harness and develop that energy into (un)learning and empower students to seek solutions to some of the most urgent issues of our time. Each of our students, in their multitude of identities, bring a wealth of knowledge, insight, culture, and personal experience that add to the tapestry of learning. This learning journey for all happens in the classroom, Center programs and events, late-night talks in the dorm, and debates with friends. Collaboration and partnership are integral to the Centers’ collective work. We are part of a longstanding network of spaces and places that speak into the conscience of the institution. In carrying out our mission, we engage with colleagues, departments, and divisions to ensure that Stanford is a place where the most-vulnerable students can thrive. Stanford Centers for Equity Community and Leadership Web Login Address 520 Lasuen Mall, Suite 206 Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Campus Map Contact Us Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Home Community Centers Resources Donate Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top