Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Wellness Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What We Do About the Center TASHE News Events Meet Our Team Services Ask-A-Nurse Enrollment Assistance Program Health Counseling Training InTOuCH Mental Health First Aid Columbia | Wellness Center You are here: Home What We Do Community Health Worker Stroke Prevention Community Health Worker Stroke Prevention The Community Health Worker Stroke Prevention program empowers communities to combat stroke. The program consists of an eight-week long training course, held throughout the year at the Wellness Center, that gives local residents the tools they need to become community health workers. Volunteers learn about various cardiovascular health topics, including motivational interviewing with a special emphasis on stroke and related risk factors. Alumni of the program serve as health advocates in their communities and at faith-based organizations, with the overall goal of improving stroke outcomes and lowering the prevalence of stroke and related risk factors. The curriculum was developed with the assistance of community focus groups and in consultation with experts in health education. The program, modeled from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention training curriculum, with the addition of culturally tailored multimedia components, is led by Olajide Williams, MD, Chief of Staff of Neurology and Associate Professor of Neurology at Columbia University Irving Medical Center, founder of Hip Hop Public Health, and co-director of the Center for Stroke Disparities Solutions in New York. A Specially Designed Community Center Located on the ground floor of the Jerome L. Greene Science Center, the Wellness Center provides health resources to area residents. ColumbiaDoctors host community-based initiatives that train members of the Harlem community to become health advocates to prevent stroke and promote mental health. The center also provides free cholesterol and blood pressure screenings, health insurance enrollment, weight counseling, and other services. Please note that the Wellness Center is not a clinical practice. Message from the Directors 212-853-1146 [email protected] Stroke Prevention Resources American Heart Association Stroke Fact Sheet American Heart Association: Hablamos sobre ataque cerebral American Heart Association: Hablemos sobre de factores de riesgo de ataque cerebral Categories Training Jerome L. Greene Science Center610 W. 130th St. · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1146 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close