Jump to main content User menu Community Auditing Continuing Education YouthCampus Policy for Minors Search form Search × Main menu About Us Campus Contacts Newsletter News & Events Upcoming Events Annual Events April ARTS Community & Staff Day Veterans Day Voting News for Neighbors Subscribe To Our Newsletter Serving Our Community Community Contributions Faculty & Staff Outreach Blood Drive Clothing Drive Volunteer Opportunities Holiday Outreach Cards of Thanks Community Threads Food Drive Financial Requests Resource Recovery Application Use of Facilities Lake Carnegie Photography on Campus Educational Opportunities Community Auditing Join the Program Registration Add, Drop, Refunds Calendar Class Resources Course Catalog and Auditor Only Series End of Semester Special Lecture and Reception Spring 2022 Reception and Lecture responses FAQs Attestation Form Continuing Education Program Admission Requirements Submitting an Application Online Application Online Readmission Form Tuition Community College Faculty Program Eligible Colleges Submitting an Application CCFP Online Application CCFP Readmission form Post Program Survey Programs for Youth Art Athletics Internships Literacy Mathematics Music SAT Prep Science Sustainability Theater Walking on Campus Main menu: sub-menu items Community Contributions Faculty & Staff Outreach Blood Drive Clothing Drive Volunteer Opportunities Holiday Outreach Financial Requests Resource Recovery Use of Facilities Clothing Drive Each January the Office of Community and Regional Affairs conducts a clothing drive to benefit HomeFront's Suitably Dressed, Dress for Success, Isles, and The Fatherhood Center of New Jersey, Mercer County organizations who collect gently used business attire for men and women. The clothing goes to men and women who are entering or re-entering the workforce, and all types of business and business casual clothing in good condition are needed. This includes suits, dress slacks, khakis, dress shirts, collared-casual shirts, blazers, skirts, sweaters, dresses, jackets, coats, ties, belts, shoes, jewelry, handbags, used eyeglasses, and other accessories. In addition to clothing, the drive also collects: Gently used musical instruments. All instruments will support the Princeton University music outreach programs in the community. Used eyeglasses to donate to Lions Club International. Unwanted stuffed toys. All toys will be donated to Glad Dogs Nation, an organization that creates safe dog toys from old, unwanted children’s stuffed toys. To learn more about Glad Dogs Nation visit www.gladdogsnation.com. The clothing drive takes place in January. Information about dates and drop-off locations will be posted prior to the event. For more information email Melissa Mercuro in the Office of Community and Regional Affairs or call (609) 258-5144. Office of Community and Regional Affairs 4 Mercer Street, Princeton, NJ, 08540 Phone: 609-258-3204 Facebook Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University