Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Green Initiatives Green Initiatives Columbia is committed to global sustainability efforts. For Commencement, clearly marked recycling bins will be provided. Single use plastic bottles will not be distributed. Guests and students should bring their own reusable bottle and fill up at any of our water refill stations available on Morningside Campus during Commencement Week. Columbia EcoReps will be at University Commencement to help collect and properly sort recyclable and compostable materials to reduce and divert additional landfill waste. Did you know that only 9% of plastics get recycled in the United States? By using outdoor water stations, Columbia will be able to prevent the use of nearly 50,000 plastic bottles on University Commencement Day alone. Please contribute to responsible water consumption during Commencement. Learn more about choosing the most sustainable water packaging options to help the Columbia community reduce its impact. Visit Sustainable Columbia for more information on all our sustainability efforts. Helpful Links Webcast Announcements School Ceremonies Schedule of Events Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Commencement Office Questions? We're available by email. E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs RESOURCE HIGHLIGHTS School Ceremonies Each school honors its graduates with a separate graduation ceremony Disability Services Learn how we facilitate equal access for students with disabilities Frequently Asked Questions Find answers to frequently asked questions and helpful tips about Commencement Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close