Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Plan Your Visit Disability Services Disability Services Disability Services coordinates accessibility efforts for Commencement Day, as well as individual school ceremonies and the Baccalaureate Service. Guests do not need to alert the University in advance to reserve seating or make other arrangements, and no special tickets are required to enter designated seating areas. Throughout the week’s activities, Disability Services staff, Event Hosts, and Public Safety officers will be on hand to assist graduates and guests with disabilities. Disability Services is a resource for students with disabilities throughout the academic year and ensures that Commencement Week activities are accessible to all graduates and guests. Entering Campus Guests with disabilities or limited mobility, older individuals needing assistance, or those in need of sign language interpretation should enter campus through one of two designated gates: 116th Street at Amsterdam Avenue Gate opens at 8:30 a.m. 115th Street at Amsterdam Avenue (between Wallach and Hartley Halls) Gate opens at 8:30 a.m. If arriving by car, it is recommended that guests be dropped off at one of these two gates before the driver finds parking, as available spots could be a significant distance from campus. Shuttle Bus A wheelchair-accessible shuttle bus will circle the perimeter of campus to pick up guests with disabilities needing assistance and their families. The shuttle bus will transport guests to the designated disability access gates. Event staff will be available at the gates to assist guests to their seats. Due to the large crowd at Commencement, there can be a long wait for the shuttle. To avoid the wait, it is suggested that guests proceed directly to the designated disability access gates. Seating There are two seating areas designated for guests with disabilities during Commencement. These are most easily accessed via the designated gates. College Walk near Kent Hall at 116th and Amsterdam Avenue (seating, wheelchair accessibility, sign language interpretation) Tent adjacent to Hamilton Hall at 116th and Amsterdam Avenue (seating, wheelchair accessibility, sign language interpretation, closed caption video) Guests can also view the ceremony from Levien Gymnasium—an indoor accessible viewing location for guests. Tickets Guests do not need to alert the University in advance to reserve seating or make other arrangements, and no special tickets are required to enter designated seating areas. General admission tickets should be used to access the designated seating areas. Services For Guests With Visual Disabilities Large print programs are available at both designated seating areas. For guests who are deaf or hard of hearing, sign language interpretation is available in both designated seating areas. One of the seating areas, the tent adjacent to Hamilton Hall at 116th and Amsterdam Avenue, will also have a closed captioned video of the ceremony. After The Ceremony Before and during the ceremony, College Walk and the South Lawn (lower campus) are open to guests only. After the ceremony, the entire campus will open. Guests with disabilities may use the elevator at the east end of Dodge Hall to access upper campus. Public Safety officers will be available to assist guests. The campus accessibility map; details what parts of campus are wheelchair accessible. Printed copies of the map are available at the Public Safety booths at Broadway and at Amsterdam Avenue or at the Disability Services Office. Helpful Links Announcements School Ceremonies Schedule of Events Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Wein Hall, Suite 108A 411 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 P: 212-854-2388 (Voice/TTY) E: [email protected] www.health.columbia.edu/ods School Ceremonies & Baccalaureate Service For more information about accessibility for individual school ceremonies and the Baccalaureate Service, please contact Disability Services by email at [email protected] or phone at 212-854-2388 (Voice/TTY). Commencement Office Questions? We're available by phone or email. P: 212-854-1753 E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close