Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Summer Graduate Information Summer Graduate Information Summer Graduate Information Summer 2022 Candidates Students graduating in Summer 2022 are invited to participate in the Fall 2022 Commencement exercises. Students will be asked to register an email address with the Commencement Office during summer semester to receive information after graduation. Fall 2022 Commencement Fall 2022 Commencement is scheduled to take place in December. Students who registered an email address over the summer will receive an email in September with RSVP dates, ticket allotments, and confirmed ceremony times. Related Resources Summer Graduate FAQs Summer Discontinuation Policy Office of the Registrar Spring Participation Spring 2022 Participation Summer 2022 graduates with two classes or less remaining and in good academic standing will have the option to apply for an early walk in Spring 2022. Read the official policy How to Apply Students may request an early walk by completing the spring participation request form by March 18. Late submissions will not be accepted. Applicants will be notified by March 25 if they are cleared to participate and receive an RSVP link at that time. Summer students allowed to walk early will receive an extension on their RSVP period. What to Expect Summer students participating in the spring ceremony should expect the following changes: Students will not be able to RSVP prior to approval. Summer students will not be listed in the spring program. All summer graduates will be listed in the fall program. Summer students will not receive honor cords for the spring ceremony. Summer students will have their name called as they walk across stage. Apply to Walk in Spring 2022 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN