Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Ceremony Information Fall Commencement Spring Commencement Graduation Checklist Livestream and Virtual Slides Receptions Candidates Application for Graduation Cap and Gown Doctoral Candidate Details Student Speaker Diploma Alumni Association Guests Plan Your Visit Ceremony Venue Parking, Directions, and Map Join the Guest Listserv Live Webcast Accessibility Graduation Products Announcements, Invitations, and Diploma Frames Official UM Stole and Honor Cords Class Ring Keepsake Tassel Celebration Signs Ceremony Programs Photo and Video Ibis Yearbook Faculty and Staff RSVP and Regalia Rental Faculty Participation Rehearsal Information Purchase Custom Regalia Volunteers About Us Ceremony Information Ceremony Protocol FAQ Contact Us Archives Search Mobile Site Fall Commencement Spring Commencement Graduation Checklist Livestream and Virtual Slides Receptions Ceremony Information Candidates Guests Graduation Products Faculty and Staff About Us Home Ceremony Information Livestream and Virtual Slides AAA Livestream and Virtual Slides Fall Commencement Spring Commencement Graduation Checklist Livestream and Virtual Slides Receptions Livestream Friends and family members can tune in to all Commencement ceremonies via the University's livestream, which will begin just prior to the ceremony start time. To view past commencement ceremonies and other University events, visit the Livestream archives. Virtual Slides View virtual graduation slides below by clicking the button associated with the candidate's ceremony date/time. UPCOMING CEREMONIES May 2022 Commencement Wednesday, May 11, 2022 LEONARD M. MILLER SCHOOL OF MEDICINE CEREMONY 10:00 a.m. View Slides and Livestream SCHOOL OF LAW CEREMONY 3:00 p.m. View Slides and Livestream Thursday, May 12, 2022 – Graduate Degree Ceremonies 10:00 a.m. Doctorate and Master's degree candidates from the College of Arts and Sciences, College of Engineering, Graduate School (M.A./M.P.S. in Environment, Cultural, and Media students only), Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine (non M.D.), and School of Nursing and Health Studies View Slides and Livestream 3:00 p.m. Doctorate and Master's degree candidates from the School of Architecture, Patti and Allan Herbert Business School, School of Communication, School of Education and Human Development, and Phillip and Patricia Frost School Music View Slides and Livestream Friday, May 13, 2022 – Undergraduate Degree Ceremonies 8:30 a.m. College of Arts and Sciences and Division of Continuing and International Education View Slides and Livestream 1:00 p.m. School of Architecture, School of Communication, School of Education and Human Development, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Phillip and Patricia Frost School of Music, and School of Nursing and Health Studies View Slides and Livestream 5:30 p.m. Patti and Allan Herbert Business School and College of Engineering View Slides and Livestream PAST CEREMONIES Fall 2021 Commencement Friday, December 17, 2021 8:30 a.m. School of Architecture, Patti and Allan Herbert Business School, School of Communication, School of Education and Human Development, and Phillip and Patricia Frost School of Music View Slides and Livestream 1:00 p.m. College of Engineering, School of Law, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine (non M.D. degrees), and School of Nursing and Health Studies View Slides and Livestream School of Law Only - View Slides and Livestream 5:30 p.m. College of Arts and Sciences, Division of Continuing and International Education, and Graduate School (M.A./M.P.S. in Environment, Cultural, and Media students only) View Slides and Livestream Friday, November 5, 2021 1:30 p.m. The Class of 2020 Special Commencement ceremony includes baccalaureate, master, and doctoral candidates (except M.D) from: School of Architecture, College of Arts and Sciences, Miami Herbert Business School, School of Communication, Division of Continuing and International Education, School of Education and Human Development, College of Engineering, School of Law, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Miller School of Medicine (non M.D.), Frost School of Music, School of Nursing and Health Studies, and The Graduate School View Livestream Spring 2021 Commencement Wednesday, May 12, 2021 School of Law 10:00 a.m. Law Ceremony for the awarding of J.D. and LL.M. degrees View Slides and Livestream Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine 3:00 p.m. Medical Degree Ceremony for the awarding of M.D. degrees only View Slides and Livestream Thursday, May 13, 2021 – Graduate Degree Ceremonies 10:00 a.m. Doctorate and Master's degree candidates from the College of Arts and Sciences, College of Engineering, Graduate School, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine (non M.D.), and School of Nursing and Health Studies View Slides and Livestream 3:00 p.m. Doctorate and Master's degree candidates from the School of Architecture, Patti and Allan Herbert Business School, School of Communication, School of Education and Human Development, and Phillip and Patricia Frost School Music View Slides and Livestream Friday, May 14, 2021 – Undergraduate Degree Ceremonies 8:30 a.m. College of Arts and Sciences and Division of Continuing and International Education View Slides and Livestream 1:00 p.m. School of Architecture, School of Communication, School of Education and Human Development, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Phillip and Patricia Frost School of Music, and School of Nursing and Health Studies View Slides and LIvestream 5:30 p.m. Patti and Allan Herbert Business School and College of Engineering View Slides and Livestream Fall 2020 Commencement December 2020 Virtual Slides Thursday, December 10, 2020 – 10 a.m. Ceremony: Spring/Summer 2020 Graduate Degrees Thursday, December 10, 2020 – 3 p.m. Ceremony: Fall 2020 Undergraduate and Graduate Degrees Friday, December 11, 2020 – 10 a.m. Ceremony: Spring/Summer/Fall 2020 School of Law Friday, December 11, 2020 – 3 p.m. Ceremony: Spring/Summer 2020 Undergraduate Degrees University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Commencement and Special Projects 1280 Stanford Drive Lakeside Village, 1M058 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-1824 305-284-1824 commencement@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices