Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Regalia Regalia Regalia Policy Georgia Tech regalia is required to participate in Commencement. Students are required to be wearing regalia prior to entering the venue. Bachelor's students are permitted to wear stoles and cords to signify academic honors. Bachelor's and Master's students may decorate their mortarboard as long as it is not distracting to the ceremony or the students around them. Note there will be different seals on regalia as we transition to the new Georgia Tech brand identity. View the regalia policy Not on campus? Students can order online on the Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech website if they are not on campus. Ph.D. Regalia Ph.D. regalia is available for purchase or rental online through on the Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech website. Regalia is custom fitted for Ph.D. candidates, and graduates are encouraged to place their order early. Ph.D. candidates participating in Commencement will receive their hoods as a gift from the Institute. Ph.D. candidates have two options: Purchase Ph.D. regalia is available for purchase at the cost of $996 before tax. Custom regalia orders must be made by Friday, March 11 on the Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech website. Rental Ph.D. regalia can be rented with a $79.98 fee with a $400 refundable deposit. Doctoral students must rent their gown by Thursday, March 31. All rentals must be returned by the date specified at checkout, or graduates will be charged an $830 replacement fee. Ph.D. rentals require the separate purchase of a Tam. The cost to purchase a Tam is $111 in addition to the rental fee. Late Ph.D. rentals will be subject to a $50 late fee. Questions and Payment Options If you have any questions about Ph.D. regalia orders or wish to discuss payment options, contact the Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech at sm225@bncollege.com. Bachelor’s Regalia Bachelor’s regalia is available for purchase in store or online at Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech. Bachelor’s regalia costs $79.98 before tax and includes your customized Georgia Tech gown and cap. Students are required to wear Georgia Tech regalia that features the seal image. Plain black robes are not permitted. Caps and gowns can be purchased up until the week of Commencement. Bachelor's regalia orders must be placed by Monday, April 18. Late orders will incur a $20 late fee. Master’s Regalia Master’s regalia is available for purchase in store or online at Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech. When you place your order, indicate the degree you are receiving, as that will determine your hood color. Master’s regalia costs $114.98 before tax and includes your customized Georgia Tech gown, cap, and hood. Students will not be permitted to wear undergraduate gowns, as Master’s gowns have additional material at the base of the sleeve. Regalia can be purchased up until the week of Commencement. Master's regalia orders must be placed by Monday, April 18. Late orders will incur a $35 late fee. Honor Cords Distribution Honor cords will be distributed at the end of fall semester. More information regarding cord distribution will be posted soon. Honor cords are for undergraduate students only. Graduate students do not receive honor cords. How honors are determined Cord and Stole Policy Student organizations or Institute-approved programs interested in requesting a cord or stole must submit an application to the Office of the Provost through the Office of the Registrar. Please see the Institute Commencement Regalia policy if you are interested. Other Honors Accessories Graduates are permitted to wear additional items if given by officially sanctioned Georgia Tech honor societies or student organizations. You are responsible for obtaining from the student organization any honors accessories to which you are entitled. Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN