Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Community Engagement Office of External Relations Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Plan Your Visit Visitor Center Getting to Campus Campus Walks Learn Kids & Parents Learn from Anywhere Resources for Educators Engage Global Engagement Opportunities and Resources for Visiting Appointments Resources for International Visitors with Appointments International Programs and Hubs Discover Events Contact Us Main content start Engage with Stanford University to accelerate solutions on mutual challenges, enjoy the quiet beauty of the campus, and partake in world-class art and performances, premier athletics, and opportunities for lifelong learning. Long-Range Vision Fueled by optimism, ingenuity and a sense of responsibility, we seek to accelerate our purposeful impact in the world. Stanford's Vision Rise Up Exhibit: In response to the precipitous increase in Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) hate crimes throughout the United States, the staff of Stanford Libraries created the Rise Up against AAPI Hate exhibit which focuses on the history of systemic racism against the AAPI community. This exhibit has both an online and physical presence. The physical exhibit is in the East Asia Library Can't find what you are looking for? Please be in touch! The Office of Community Engagement is here to help you find what you need. Contact Us Stanford Community News Connecting you with news stories about the community, Stanford, and the region. Stories Stanford Facts Founded by Leland and Jane Stanford in 1885 as a memorial to their only son, Stanford is affectionately known as “The Farm.” Learn More FAQs Find answers to frequent questions about people and places at Stanford. Frequently Asked Questions About Us Part of External Relations, the Office of Community Engagement (OCE) creates a more purposeful and organized engagement between Stanford and the external communities with which the university interacts. OCE leverages the expertise and resources of dozens of diverse campus engagement hubs to strengthen and advance collaboration with external communities, with a focus on addressing mutual challenges around affordability, education, health, and sustainability. Meet the Office of Community Engagement The Office of Community Engagement is part of the Office of External Relations. Office of External Relations Stanford Community Engagement Office of External Relations Office of External Relations Address Office of Community Engagement Francis C. Arrillaga Alumni Center 326 Galvez Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Phone: (650) 498-9785 communityrelations@stanford.edu Stanford External Relations Admin Login Resources Campus Map Careers Diversity Works Noise and Traffic Management Public Safety Heads Up construction activity Quick Links Athletics Stanford Arts Stanford Annual Events Stanford Archives Stanford Children's Health Stanford Healthcare Stanford University Libraries Undergrad & Grad Admission Office of Religious and Spiritual Life Sign up for Stanford’s free monthly digest of campus content and events. Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top