Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Parking and Transit Parking and Transit Bobby Dodd Stadium 177 North Ave NW Atlanta, Georgia 30313 Designated parking areas are listed below. Parking costs vary by lot. Spring 2022 Commencement Friday, May 6 Parking Areas Klaus Parking Deck North Ave Apartments Parking- E53 W23 Parking Area 1 Visitor Parking Area 2 Visitor Parking E81- Georgia Tech Hotel E82- Centergy Saturday, May 7 Parking Areas Klaus Parking Deck North Ave Apartments Parking- E53 W23 Parking Area 1 Visitor Parking Area 2 Visitor Parking E81- Georgia Tech Hotel E82- Centergy Guest Drop-Off and Handicap Parking for All Ceremonies All guest drop-off and pick-up will take place on the corner of Bobby Dodd Way and Techwood Drive. Guests with a valid handicap parking tag may park on Brittian Drive and Fowler Street, located next to Peters Parking Deck. Traffic Alerts We expect a high amount of traffic in the area. Please plan accordingly and leave extra time for parking. Expect heavy traffic on campus due to campus move out on Friday, May 6. Techwood Drive between North Ave and Bobby Dodd Way will be northbound access only. Brittain Drive and Fowler Street between 4th Street and Bobby Dodd Way are ADA parking access only. View all street closures Entering Campus Guests are encouraged to enter campus at 10th Street and Fowler Street by McCamish Pavilion. Traveling southbound on 75/85: Take exit 84 and follow signs for 10th Street West. Turn right onto 10th street and then left at the light onto Fowler Street. Take a left onto Ferst Drive. You may proceed down Ferst Drive to park in Tech Square or turn right onto Techwood Drive for guest drop off. Traveling northbound on 75/85: Take exit 250 and merge onto Wiliams Street. Turn left onto 10th Street and then left onto Fowler Street. Take a left onto Ferst Drive. You may proceed down Ferst Drive to park in Tech Square or turn right onto Techwood Drive for guest drop off. View Commencement Parking Map Campus Street Closures Bobby Dodd Way is closed. Techwood Drive will temporarily close for increased pedestrian traffic at the end of each ceremony. Faculty Parking All faculty and staff volunteers will receive a reserved parking pass and instructions prior to the event. Parking is limited and on a first-come, first-served basis. Faculty and staff assisting at the graduate ceremony are encouraged to walk to the ceremony. Public Transportation and Campus Map Public Transportation Georgia Tech is served by two MARTA transit stations. Riding Marta to Georgia Tech. North Avenue Station This is the closest station to the Commencement ceremonies. If walking, go west for two blocks on North Avenue. The campus is located just past the interstate bridge. Continue on North Avenue until you get to Bobby Dodd Stadium. Midtown Station The Gold Route makes continuous pick-ups from the Midtown Station to campus. Georgia Tech Transit Bus Tracking- Live Map Campus Map Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN