Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Commencement FAQs Tickets Venue and Ceremony Parents and Guests Accessibilty and Special Needs General Graduation Questions Spring 2022 FAQ Updates Spring 2022 FAQ information coming soon. Tickets Do family members and guests need tickets to attend the Commencement ceremony? Tickets are not required for our Spring 2022 Commencement ceremonies. For more information, visit our tickets page. Venue and Ceremony Will you stream the ceremony online? Yes. Family and friends may view our Commencement ceremony online through our live webcast. Information will appear on our website the week prior to the ceremony. We begin streaming 30 minutes prior to ceremony start. Visit the More Ways to View the Ceremony page for more details. Can you confirm my attendance at Commencement? The Commencement Office is unable to confirm any RSVPs. If you have completed the online form, know that your spot has been reserved and you may walk for Commencement. What time do the venue doors open? Approximately 60 minutes prior to the beginning of the ceremony. How long does the ceremony usually last? Most of our ceremonies last approximately two and a half hours. The Ph.D. ceremony lasts approximately one and a half hours. View our ceremony schedule for more information. Will concessions be available? Yes, limited concessions will be available in the venue. No outside food or beverages are allowed. How do I order photos taken at the ceremony? GradImages is proud to be your official graduation photographer. Proofs of your formal and candid photos will be sent via email the week after your Commencement. You can also view and order your images directly online after the ceremony. Gifts, thank you cards, and other digital images for sharing via social media are also available. Take 20% off your entire photo order when you pre-register for your event. Register Now Parents and Guests We have a guest with special needs. Is there anything we need to do to make arrangements? Please read our Accessibility and Special Needs page and our additional FAQs below. If you have further questions, you may contact our office at events@comm.gatech.edu. My parents live out of the country and need a visa to attend Commencement. Can Georgia Tech provide an invitation letter? Georgia Tech does not issue invitation letters for Commencement; however, a copy of your degree status report should work to prove your matriculation through Tech. You may also request a Verification of Pending Degree letter through the Office of the Registrar. Please visit the Office of International Education for more details regarding visas. Does Georgia Tech host an Institute-wide celebration event for graduates and their families? Yes. Graduates and their families are encouraged to attend the President’s Graduation Celebration. Admission is free. Accessibility and Special Needs Where is ADA seating located? ADA seating is located throughout the venue. All of our ADA seating is located on concourse level, looking down on the stage. No ticket is required for ADA seating; guests requiring a wheelchair seat will receive an assigned seat. View our ticketing page for more information. Are wheelchairs available at the venue? No, unfortunately we do not have any at the venue. Please read our Accessibility and Special Needs page for suggestions on how to rent one from a third-party vendor. Is there a limit for ADA seats for each party? We do not enforce a strict limit for ADA seating, as we recognize different families have different needs. However, we ask that guests do not request more than they need to help us accommodate as many people as possible. Companions may be relocated within the ADA section to help us accommodate ADA patrons. Wheelchair seats are limited to one plus companion to help us accommodate as many families as possible. More information can be found on our ticketing page. Does the person requiring the wheelchair seat need to be the one to request it? No, anyone from the party may request on their behalf. I would like all of my guests to be seated together. Can this be arranged? Our staff will work with guests to try to ensure families are seated in the same section. Can I choose which section my wheelchair guest is assigned to? You will not be able to select a specific seat. Suites are not available. The Athletic's Office will work with students when making seating assignments to accommodate requests. General Graduation Questions I have a question about my diploma. Students with questions regarding their diploma should start with the Degree Candidate FAQ found on the Registrar’s website. Any additional questions should be addressed to the Registrar’s Office. I am a summer graduate and heard it is discontinued. What do I do? While you will still graduate in summer, you will now be invited to participate in the Fall Commencement Ceremony. Visit summer graduate information for more details. The Commencement Office will contact petitioned summer graduates in May with further instructions. Those students expected to have less than two classes will have the opportunity to participate in Spring Commencement. View the new policy and requirements here. Request forms to walk during Spring Commencement are due in mid-March. I have multiple faculty advisors. Can I invite all of them to attend? Yes. When you RSVP to the ceremony, you will have a blank field to enter additional faculty advisors. Please remember to provide the same information for each advisor (name, email, and department). What is the difference between graduation and Commencement? Graduation is the completion of all degree requirements as recorded on a student’s official transcript. Commencement is the ceremony that celebrates the completion of a degree. Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN