Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Plan Your Visit Announcements Announcements Due to the severe weather expected to pass through our area and to ensure the safety of graduates and their guests, the Law School graduation ceremony has been delayed and will begin at 7:30 p.m., Monday, May 16. General Admission gates will open at 7:00 p.m. Watch the live webcast here and visit the Law School's graduation website for further details. May 2022: Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To attend any Commencement activity or graduation-related event on Columbia campuses, all graduates, visiting alumni, and guests must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status and provide proof of COVID-19 vaccination. Anyone who is unable to be vaccinated will be required to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test (time-stamped photo of an at-home antigen test on the day of each event or email results of a PCR test within 48 hours of the first attended event). Unvaccinated guests over the age of two must wear a non-cloth mask during all events. Additionally, for indoor graduation-related events, the wearing of non-cloth masks is strongly recommended for all attendees, irrespective of vaccination status. Attendees may remove masks briefly during eating and drinking. Event health and safety policies are dependent on the status of the University's COVID-19 Monitoring Plan and are subject to change. Please click here for the most current information. Events outside of Columbia campuses may have different requirements for in-person attendance. Please contact your individual school for more details. April 2022: Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To attend any Commencement activity or event on Columbia campuses, all graduates, visiting alumni, and guests must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status and provide full proof of COVID-19 vaccination. Anyone who is unable to be vaccinated will be required to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test (time-stamped photo of an at-home antigen test on the day of each event or email results of a PCR test within 48 hours of the first attended event). Unvaccinated guests over the age of two must wear a mask during all events. Event health and safety policies are dependent on the status of the University's COVID-19 Monitoring Plan and are subject to change. Please click here for the most current information. Events outside of Columbia campuses may have different requirements for in-person attendance. Please contact your individual school for more details. March 2022: Classes of 2020 and 2021, visit this dedicated event page for more information about your celebration. More details will be shared as they develop. March 2022: Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To that end, all graduates, visiting alumni and guests (except children 5 years and under), must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status in order to attend in-person Commencement events this May. Vaccination cards will be checked upon entry to all outdoor and indoor venues. Note that this event is dependent on the status of the University's COVID-19 Monitoring Plan. February 2022: An in-person celebration honoring the Classes of 2020 and 2021 will be held on Thursday, May 19, 2022. More details can be found on the ceremony page. Read President Bollinger’s announcement here. January 2022: University Commencement is scheduled to take place on Wednesday, May 18, 2022 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) on Morningside Campus. More details will be available in the coming weeks. For questions related to Class Day ceremonies, contact your individual school. Rewatch videos from last year’s Commencement Week including Individual School Ceremonies; Baccalaureate Service, and University Commencement. Helpful Links Webcast Announcements School Ceremonies Schedule of Events Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Commencement Office Questions? We're available by email. E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close