Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home FAQs Tickets Tickets Expand all Collapse all Are tickets required for the Commencement Week ceremonies? All graduating students who would like to participate in Commencement are required to register online. Graduating students need to register tickets for themselves and their guests. Note: A ticket will allow for admission to the campus but does not guarantee a seat. Seats are available on a first-come, first-served basis and cannot be reserved. The selling or buying of University Commencement tickets is strictly prohibited. Please be cautious of offers to sell or buy Commencement tickets. Tickets hold no official resale value and may be unauthorized copies, therefore deemed unusable and denied on Commencement Day. Commencement tickets are solely for the purpose of allowing the friends and relatives of graduating students to attend the ceremony. The campus will be closed to the general public until the ceremony has ended. Tickets will be checked at designated entrance gates to the Morningside campus starting at 8:30 a.m. Nongraduating students and employees with a CUID may be on campus but should not expect to attend the ceremony without a ticket, as seating is very limited. All children over the age of three require a ticket. Lost tickets will not be replaced. Ticket requirements vary for the individual school ceremonies, including Class Day and graduations. Please reference School Ceremonies for further details regarding tickets. How many tickets does each graduate receive? Ticket requirements vary for the individual school ceremonies, including Class Day and graduations. Please reference School Ceremonies for further details regarding tickets. For University Commencement: Each undergraduate degree candidate may request up to four (4) tickets and graduate degree candidates may request up to two (2) tickets. (Ticket allocations are determined by the number of graduates, along with the spatial and security constraints of campus.) How can I get tickets for any of the Commencement Week ceremonies? All graduating students who would like to participate in Commencement are required to register online. Graduating students need to register tickets for themselves and their guests. When you become eligible to register, you will receive an email with the link to the website for University Commencement with instructions on how to complete registration and request tickets for your guests. Guests are then required to present these tickets and proof of vaccination* to access the ceremony at all general admission entrances for the outdoor seating area on Low Plaza and South Field or the indoor viewing location in the Levien Gymnasium. The number of graduates, along with the spatial and security constraints of campus, necessitate a limit on the number of tickets per student. Ticket requirements vary for the individual school ceremonies, including Class Day and graduations. Please reference School Ceremonies for further details regarding tickets, and reach out to the school contact listed on their page. Event health and safety policies are dependent on the status of the University's COVID-19 Monitoring Plan and are subject to change. Can I sell my ticket if I don't need it? Selling Commencement tickets is strictly prohibited. Please be cautious of offers to sell or buy Commencement tickets. Tickets hold no official resale value and may be unauthorized copies, therefore deemed unusable and denied on Commencement Day. Commencement tickets are solely for the purpose of allowing the friends and relatives of graduating students to attend the ceremony. The campus will be closed to the general public until the ceremony has ended. Ticket requirements may vary for the individual school ceremonies, including Class Day and graduations. Please reference School Ceremonies for further details regarding tickets, and reach out to the school contact listed on their page. How can I request more tickets? Ticket requirements vary for the individual school ceremonies, including Class Day and graduations. Please reference School Ceremonies for further details regarding tickets. For University Commencement: Each undergraduate degree candidate may request up to four (4) tickets and graduate degree candidates may request up to two (2) tickets. (Ticket allocations are determined by the number of graduates, along with the spatial and security constraints of campus.) The Commencement Office is not able to provide additional tickets in advance or on Commencement Day at campus entry points, however, you may appeal to your school if you have extenuating circumstances and require extra tickets. To find the appropriate contact, please visit School Ceremonies. What should I do if I am having difficulties registering for commencement? When you become eligible to register, you will receive an email with the link to the website for University Commencement with instructions on how to complete registration and request tickets for you and your guests. Due to the large volume of graduates on the ticketing website, you may be placed in a waiting room. Do not refresh your browser while in the waiting room. If you receive an error that says your account is not registered, please reach out to your individual school contact to verify your eligibility. The individual school contacts can be found here. For the classes of 2020 and 2021, the school contacts can be found here. When you first log in, the temporary password is Lions2022. If you reset your password, check for an email from [email protected] that contains a reset link. Please check your spam folder and allow time for the email to come through. If you are still experiencing issues and did not receive the email, contact [email protected] For further assistance, use the How to Guide for University Commencement Ticketing Website as an additional reference. Are tickets required for children? All children aged 3 and over must have a ticket to attend University Commencement and children over the age of five must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status. Because of space constraints, it is recommended that you leave strollers at home. There is no stroller parking or storage available; however, if you must bring a stroller to University Commencement, please do not use the general admission gates to enter. Please enter at the accessible gate at Amsterdam and 115th Street. Please keep in mind that Commencement Day is a crowded outdoor event with little space to move around and may prove to be a challenging environment for small children. However, guests can also view the ceremony from Levien Gymnasium, an indoor, accessible viewing location. Event health and safety policies are dependent on the status of the University's COVID-19 Monitoring Plan and are subject to change. FAQ Topics COVID-19 Inquiries General For Graduates For 2020 & 2021 Graduates Tickets Planning Your Visit Helpful Links Webcast Announcements School Ceremonies Schedule of Events Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Commencement Office Questions? We're available by email. E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close