Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Wellness Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What We Do About the Center TASHE News Events Meet Our Team Services Ask-A-Nurse Enrollment Assistance Program Health Counseling Training InTOuCH Mental Health First Aid Columbia | Wellness Center Home Welcome The Community Wellness Center provides education and resources to empower people in making healthy lifestyle adjustments. Message from the Directors All of Our Services Are Free Health Insurance Enrollment Our staff are New York State-certified application counselors, trained to assist individuals in enrolling for a health insurance plan that fits their eligibility. Healthcare Referrals Our healthcare referral list, organized by area of specialization, covers a broad range of services and resources. Many clinicians on our list are bilingual and most participate in both public and private health insurance plans. Information regarding free or sliding-scale services is also available. Blood Pressure and Cholesterol Screenings Free blood pressure and cholesterol testing to all who walk in. Stroke Prevention Training The Community Health Worker Stroke Prevention program includes eight weeks of trainings that give local residents the tools they need to become community health workers. See All Services When We're Open Monday Closed Tuesday Closed Wednesday Closed Thursday Closed Friday Closed Saturday Closed Sunday Closed Directions We are located on the ground floor of the Jerome L. Greene Science Center at 610 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027. By subway, take the No. 1 train to 125th Street, then walk two blocks north to West 130th Street. By bus, take the M4, M104, or BxM15 to 125th Street, then walk two blocks north to West 130th Street. Google Map Location Jerome L. Greene Science Center610 W. 130th St. · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1146 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close