Close MAIN MENU Home About SCSD Mission Statement SCSD Strategic Plan Alumni Board Dr. Laurel Loren Schendel Student Outcomes Data SCSD Operating By-Laws Faculty News Videos Academics Doctoral Program Master’s (Distance Learning) Master’s (Tallahassee Campus) Speech-Language Pathology Prerequisites (Bridge) Program Undergraduate Program in CSD Interdepartmental Developmental Disabilities Certificate Speech & Hearing Clinic Clinic Services Privacy Notice Scottish Rite Support Financial Aid Bright Futures Funding Opportunities School Assistance Student Life Clubs & Organizations Research Affiliated Labs, Clinics and Centers Contracts and Grants CS&D-Related Organizations Faculty Specialty Research Areas Research at FSU Undergraduate Student Research HELPFUL LINKS Skip to content FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY Search Search in CCI: CCI Schools & Centers DONATE NOW Welcome to the College of Communication & Information Schools and Colleges College of Communication & Information School of Communication School of Information School of Communication Science & Disorders Centers of Distinction Centers and Labs Garnet & Gold Scholar Society School of Communication Science & Disorders College of Communication & Information Home About SCSD Mission Statement SCSD Strategic Plan Alumni Board Dr. Laurel Loren Schendel Student Outcomes Data SCSD Operating By-Laws Faculty News Videos Academics Doctoral Program Master’s (Distance Learning) Master’s (Tallahassee Campus) Speech-Language Pathology Prerequisites (Bridge) Program Undergraduate Program in CSD Interdepartmental Developmental Disabilities Certificate Speech & Hearing Clinic Clinic Services Privacy Notice Scottish Rite Support Financial Aid Bright Futures Funding Opportunities School Assistance Student Life Clubs & Organizations Research Affiliated Labs, Clinics and Centers Contracts and Grants CS&D-Related Organizations Faculty Specialty Research Areas Research at FSU Undergraduate Student Research Menu Find your degree BRIDGE PROGRAM Masters Distance Learning Masters Tallahassee Campus Doctoral Program Undergraduate IDD Certificate American Sign Language Explore our degree options to find what you need for a career in the dynamic field of communication sciences and disorders. Discover Our Programs x Online program designed for students to obtain the prerequisite courses necessary to work in our field as an SLPA or pursue a graduate degree in speech-language pathology. Bridge Program application Program Inquiry x Earn your master’s while getting in-person clinical practicum experience in an online-hybrid learning environment in your own Florida town. View Program x Prepare for a professional career in speech-language pathology with our superior education and clinical instruction. View Program x Learn how to conduct clinical research, prepare for a career in academia, or succeed in leadership roles within the field of speech-language pathology. View Program x Discover the extraordinary opportunities available through a career in communication sciences and disorders while preparing for further graduate studies in the field. View Program x Acquire a foundation of knowledge regarding developmental disabilities through this certificate program. View Program x American Sign Language is the natural, complete, and linguistically unique language of the American Deaf community. The ASL program at Florida State University is housed within the School of Communication Science and Disorders. ASL Website x School Statement in Response to Recent Events NEW for the Fall 2022 Admissions Cycle FSU is waiving the GRE requirement for most programs. This includes the Master’s in Communication Science & Disorders program. Students may submit scores with their application but it is not required. There will be no penalty for not submitting scores and no extra credit will be given should scores be submitted. Looking in to the future through research and experiences. Communication Science & Disorders students study the nature and development of our communication abilities, a central aspect of the human condition. They also learn about communication disorders which involve impairments in hearing, speech, voice, resonance, fluency, swallowing, and language processes. Disorders of human communication affect millions of Americans and cut across the entire life span. An estimated 1 in 6 individuals will suffer from a communication impairment in their lifetime. Audiologists assess and treat individuals with hearing loss. Speech-language pathologists identify, prevent, evaluate, and treat individuals with communication disorders. The growing number of people with communication impairments reflects a need for qualified audiologists and speech-language pathologists, known as SLPs, to serve the populace. NEWS FROM THE COLLEGE May 24, 2022 SCSD Graduate Students Present the Impacts of Speech and Swallowing to Parkinson’s Patients at... READ MORE May 20, 2022 Meet Victor Lugo; Veteran, Doctoral Student, and Researcher READ MORE May 19, 2022 CCI Students and Faculty Recognized at Leadership Awards READ MORE May 17, 2022 10 Ways (this Spring) CCI is Making an Impact READ MORE NEWS ARCHIVE About the College While we are FSU’s newest College, our roots run deep and each of our three Schools – Communication, Communication Science & Disorders, and Information — has a proud history of academic achievement, research and service by faculty, students and alumni. The College Three Schools School of Communication School of Information School of Communication Science and Disorders Location Tallahassee, Florida Founded 1865 Identity Public university, public mission Accreditation statement: The School of Communication Science and Disorders’ Master of Science (both residential and Distance Learning) education program in speech-language pathology at Florida State University is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, 2200 Research Boulevard, #310, Rockville, MD 20850, 800-498-2071 or 301-296-5700. 201 W. Bloxham, Warren Building Tallahassee, FL 32306-1200 fsucomdis@cci.fsu.edu Clinic: (850) 644-2238 Academic Office: (850) 644-2253 Contact Us Clinic: (850) 644-2238 Academic Office: (850) 644-2253 Visit 201 W. Bloxham, Warren Building Tallahassee, FL 32306-1200 Map | Bus Route People Alumni and Friends Ways to Give How Your Gift Helps Faculty and Staff Directory About The College For the past several years, our programs have been ranked consistently in the top 10% in the nation by U.S. News and World Report. Learn more >> Report Errors | Privacy Policy © 2021 Florida State University. College of Communication & Information at Florida State University