Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Ceremonies 2022 University Commencement Webcast 2022 University Commencement Webcast Welcome to University Commencement Thank you for joining us to celebrate the incredible accomplishments of the Class of 2022! Scroll down for the full virtual Commencement experience and get to know our graduates. Watch the University Commencement above or on one of our other webcasts. The ceremony is best viewed on a desktop, laptop, or tablet. Closed captions are available on all webcast platforms. Columbia Homepage YouTube Panopto graduation-cap icon School Ceremonies bank icon Baccalaureate Service handshake icon 2020 & 2021 Celebration For a PDF of the University Commencement program above, download it here. Get your virtual celebratory kit! Unleash your creative powers with this DIY celebratory kit. Check out the GIPHY stickers, photo booth props, virtual backgrounds, and more! Peruse & Download DISCOVER COMMENCEMENT On the night of Commencement, from sunset until 2:00 a.m. (EDT), watch the live stream as the top of New York's iconic Empire State Building lights up in blue and white in your honor! Join the rest of New York City as we all celebrate Columbia’s Class of 2022. @empirestatebldg Commencement Stories Commencement History & Regalia Award Recipients #ROARLIONS2022 Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close