Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Awardees Ann F. Kaplan Ann F. Kaplan Ann F. Kaplan ’72SW, ’77BUS is a graduate of the Columbia School of Social Work and Columbia Business School. She is a Columbia University Trustee Emerita and, as the Chair of the Committee on Global Initiatives and Co-Chair of the Global Leadership Concil, had the pleasure of supporting the establishment of the network of Columbia Global Centers. She also served on the board of the Columbia University Investment Management Company and, as Vice Chair of the Finance Committee, chaired the Committee on Social Responsibility. Kaplan is currently a member of the Board of Overseers of Columbia Business School where she serves on the Governance and Nominating Committee, is a Founding member of the Women’s Circle, has supported the Manhattanville Campus, and has endowed a chair. She also serves on the Board of Advisors at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center, the Mailman School of Public Health, and the Beijing and Amman Global Centers. Kaplan is the Chair of the Women Creating Change Leadership Board, which supports a Columbia grant giving program for interdisciplinary work on issues that affect women. She also taught asset management at Columbia Business School from 2004 to 2014. She supports projects at The Global Centers, the Medical Center, and the Center for Chronic Grief. Return to Alumni Medalists ’72SW, ’77BUS Return to Alumni Medalists Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close