Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Communications Main navigation Home About About Us Meet the Team Careers Brand Brand Standards and Guidelines Our Voice Our Look Licensing Licensing and Trademarks Campus Resources External Communications About Media and PR Op-Ed and News Pitching Social Media State Outreach Internal Communications Campus Communications Campus Calendar On-Campus Advertising Campus Communicator Contacts Events at Georgia Tech About Event Planning Event Coordinator Network (External Link) Georgia Tech Special Events (External Link) Photo and Video About Photography and Videography Photo and Video Guides Scheduling a Headshot Websites Website Development Content Strategy Hiring Website Vendors Meeting and Training Opportunities Meetings and Training Presentation Archives (GT Account Required) Media and Vendors Media Inquiries Promotional Inquiries User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Media and Public Relations Breadcrumb Home Our team assists campus communicators with media and public relations opportunities. We also direct and coordinate Georgia Tech’s communication messages and serve as the official voice of the Institute during times of crisis. Lauren Stewart talks with WSB-TV's Tom Regan in Georgia Tech’s Structural Engineering and Materials Lab. Stewart, an associate professor in the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, offered her engineering expertise to Atlanta and national media in the wake of the Interstate 85 bridge collapse in Atlanta in 2017. Photo: Jess Hunt-Ralston. Publicizing News Each week, we facilitate an editorial meeting that is open to campus communicators. Join us on Mondays at 3 p.m. to discuss stories and projects and how we can amplify their impact. For more information about the meeting, email Tamara Wilder at tamara.wilder@comm.gatech.edu. Before pitching stories to the media, contact our media relations team with your story ideas. Refer to the Op-Ed and News Pitching Guidelines to determine the best outlet for the story. Responding to Media Inquiries Contact a member of the media relations team (on call 24/7) to review the request. Inform us of the deadline for response. Promptly let us know whether you can or cannot accommodate the request by the deadline. Keep in mind that many media outlets have immediate deadlines. We can facilitate the interview process and, if needed, bring in additional faculty members who can provide expert insight about their research area and related topics. Queries involving international film crews require additional coordination. Please contact the  media relations team upon receiving such a request. Responding to Requests for Comments When public comment on behalf of Georgia Tech is requested: Contact a member of the media relations team (on call 24/7) to review the request. We will coordinate with senior leadership to designate an appropriate spokesperson. Faculty members are always free to discuss any topics related to their areas of academic expertise but should not speak on behalf of the Institute unless designated as a spokesperson. Preparing for Media Interviews Through media training, our team helps members of the Georgia Tech community prepare for media interviews. We offer media training each semester in a small group setting. Sign up for Media Training Email denise.ward@comm.gatech.edu or jstewart@gatech.edu. Communicating During a Crisis During a crisis or incident that disrupts normal operations, Georgia Tech has procedures in place to communicate with the campus community, the media, and the public. Crisis Coordination and Communication The media relations team directs and coordinates Georgia Tech’s crisis communication message and serves as the official voice of the Institute. The Georgia Tech Police Department and Institute Communications are authorized to communicate emergency information on behalf of the Institute.  Read and familiarize yourself with the Georgia Institute of Technology Crisis Coordination and Communications Plan. These plans are to be used in collaboration with the Office of Emergency Preparedness’ plans for Business Continuity and Crisis. Each unit should create a shadow plan that works along with these plans. Weather Events During a weather emergency or other event that disrupts normal university operations, Institute Communications media team members will reach out to the media to engage their assistance in notifying the public. Campus Community Deaths It is important and necessary for the campus community to be informed of the death of an individual as soon as it is reasonably possible. When the death involves a student, the Vice President/Dean of Students will act as the primary liaison with the family of the deceased. The Communications Director for Student Life will act as the primary coordinator for campus communications. Read and familiarize yourself with the Campus Death Notification Protocol. Communication Channels The approved channels of communication include, but are not limited to: Georgia Tech Emergency Notification System (GTENS) Email Voice mail Text messages Siren system Georgia Tech websites News releases Digital campus signage and screens Emergency phone lines Questions? Contact a member of the media relations team. External Communications Media and Public Relations Op-Ed and News Pitching Social Media State Outreach Contact For media and PR assistance, contact our Media Relations Team. Editorial Planning Mondays at 3 p.m. Communicators across campus meet every week to discuss stories and projects and how we can amplify their impact. For more information: Tamara Wilder Production Coordinator tamara.wilder@comm.gatech.edu Institute Communications Georgia Institute of Technology 177 North Avenue NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0181 404.894.0870 Institute Communications Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education