Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Events & Schedule Guest Information Student Information Faculty Volunteer Resources Home May December Office of Commencement Events Commencement planning resource for families, students, faculty, staff, and volunteers Events & Schedule Guest Information Student Information Faculty Volunteer Resources Events & Schedule May 27-29, 2022 May Commencement WeekendToggle the sub-menu Events & ScheduleToggle the sub-menu Commencement CeremoniesToggle the sub-menu Severe Weather Plan University PhD Ceremony College Events Convocation and Senior Days Guest InformationToggle the sub-menu Accessibility Planning Dining Lodging Parking & Directions Student InformationToggle the sub-menu Cap & Gown Volunteer Faculty ResourcesToggle the sub-menu Contact Us HomeMay Commencement WeekendEvents & ScheduleCommencement Ceremonies Commencement Ceremonies Congratulations to our upcoming 2022 graduates and proud Cornell families! More than 8,000 candidates for undergraduate, graduate, and professional degrees will be conferred at two (2) ceremonies on Saturday, May 28, 2022 at Schoellkopf Field. We are pleased to share changes and details for this year’s events. Reserving tickets is no longer required and guest limits have been lifted for both university Commencement ceremonies at Schoellkopf Field. Because this is our first time hosting two university Commencement ceremonies, we are instituting a registration process to help with planning safe and enjoyable events at Schoellkopf Field. Every graduate must register themselves and their guests by completing the Graduate Registration and Guest Reservation form by May 27, noted below. We look forward to celebrating with you Commencement Weekend 2022. Commencement Ceremonies – Saturday, May 28, 2022 Two (2) University Commencement Ceremonies will be held on Saturday, May 28, 2022 at Schoellkopf Field. All students will attend the ceremony of their conferring school/college or field of study’s school/college. Colleges or Schools at 1st Ceremony on Saturday 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Human Ecology Cornell Graduate School (Review list of Fields to attend) Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Cornell Tech Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management School of Industrial and Labor Relations 1st Ceremony Schedule for Graduates and Guests Stadium Gates Open – 8:00 a.m. Procession lines up on the Arts Quad by college/school 8:00 a.m. – 9:00a.m. Procession to Stadium 9:00 a.m. – 10:00a.m. Commencement Ceremony 10:00a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Exit Stadium 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 noon Colleges or Schools at 2nd Ceremony on Saturday 2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering College of Veterinary Medicine Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Cornell Graduate School (Review list of Fields to attend) Cornell Law School 2nd Ceremony Schedule for Graduates and Guests Stadium Gates Open – 12:30 p.m. Procession lines up on the Arts Quad by college/school 12:30 p.m. – 1:30 p.m. Procession to Stadium 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Commencement Ceremony 2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. Exit Stadium 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. About the Ceremonies Graduation at Cornell is comprised of two components: the ceremonial Commencement exercises where all university graduate and undergraduate degrees are formally conferred en masse, plus separate recognition ceremonies or receptions within each college/school. Saturday’s Commencement Ceremonies are distinct from various college events happening over the course of the weekend. Also, Commencement should not be confused with Convocation, which will take place on Wednesday, May 25th and feature an invited guest speaker. Over 8,000 candidates will earn degrees, including undergraduate and graduate degrees. Of those, a total of approximately 6,000 will participate in person this year, with 3,000 participating in each of the two ceremonies. It takes approximately 45 minutes (9:15am-10:00am and 1:45pm-2:30pm) for students, faculty, administrators, and trustees to process into the stadium and be seated. An announcement and large banner will designate the arrival of each college at Schoellkopf Field. This is a fun & festive time – watch for your graduate on the Jumbotron or via livestream! At these large university ceremonies, candidates do not cross the stage and names are not announced. Rather, each college’s degree candidates will rise when instructed, and degrees will be formally conferred en masse, by the university president. The ceremonies will end, at 11:00am and 3:30pm respectively, with the singing of the Alma Mater. After each of the commencement ceremonies, some graduates and guests will leave the stadium to go to the graduate’s college event, if planned for Saturday morning or afternoon. These events are happening at various locations across campus. Graduates exit the stadium at the north end of the field to walk to their next event and/or to meet up with their guests. Guests exit the stadium from the Crescent or from the south end of the field, then join their graduate at the next event or at a designated meeting point. Make sure everyone in your party knows the graduate’s college/school and department if attending an event following the Commencement Ceremony. The college events, whether held on Friday, Saturday, or Sunday, are where guests like to take photos and celebrate with their graduate. Most events on campus are over by 1:00 pm on Sunday. Check with the appropriate event planner for the exact end time of a specific event. Arrival Time and Schedule 1st Ceremony @ 10:00am 7:30am: Buses begin making loops around campus to transport guests from parking lots to Schoellkopf Field (Crescent side). Entrances open at 8:00am on Saturday. 8:00am – 8:30am: Arrive on campus to allow time to park (follow signs to parking), then ride a bus to the Crescent Lot at Schoellkopf Field. Guests with Accessibility Plans should follow specific instructions received with their Yellow Plan. Allow time for safety and security measures at stadium entrances. NOTE: If arriving by vehicle with graduates, graduates MUST be on the Arts Quad at 8:00am assembling for the procession. 9:00am: Guests should plan to be in seating areas by 9:00am, in time to watch the student procession arrive. Procession from Arts Quad to Schoellkopf Field begins. General Seating and Accessible Blue Plan: Crescent bleachers. Accessible Yellow Plan: On the field in the south end zone. Indoor Livestream Viewing Locations: Statler Hall Auditorium and Lynah Rink. Graduates must be on the Arts Quad at 8:00am assembling for the procession. 9:15am – 10:00am: Procession arrives at Schoellkopf Field. Graduates are seated. 10:00am – 11:00am: 1st Commencement Ceremony at Schoellkopf Field. 2nd Commencement Ceremony @ 2:30pm 12:30pm: Buses continue making loops around campus to transport guests from parking lots to Schoellkopf Field (Crescent side). Entrances open at 12:30pm for the 2nd ceremony. 12:30pm – 1pm: Arrive on campus to allow time to park (follow signs to parking), then ride a bus to the Crescent Lot at Schoellkopf Field. Guests with Accessibility Plans should follow specific instructions received with their Yellow Plan. Allow time for safety and security measures at stadium entrances. NOTE: If arriving by vehicle with graduates, graduates MUST be on the Arts Quad at 12:30pm assembling for the procession. 1:30pm: Guests should plan to be in seating areas by 1:30pm, to watch the student procession arrive. Procession from Arts Quad to Schoellkopf Field begins. General Seating and Accessible Blue Plan: Crescent bleachers. Accessible Yellow Plan: On the field in the south end zone. Indoor Livestream Viewing Locations: Statler Hall Auditorium and Lynah Rink. Graduates must be on the Arts Quad at 12:30pm assembling for the procession. 1:45pm -2:30pm: Procession arrives at Schoellkopf Field. Graduates are seated. 2:30pm-3:30pm: 2nd Commencement Ceremony at Schoellkopf Field. Attire Students wear cap & gown to this event. Guests may dress per their personal comfort level (business-casual is common) and comfortable walking shoes. The stadium does not have a roof, so please be prepared for hot, cold, and wet weather by bringing sunblock, hat, umbrella, and jacket, as deemed necessary for the conditions. COVID-19 Guidance for Commencement Weekend On-Campus Testing Sites: Robert Purcell Community Center (RPCC) and East Hill Plaza testing sites will be open from 10am-2pm on Saturday and Sunday, May 28 and 29, to distribute antigen test kits to Cornell community members with a Cornell NetID. Please bring photo ID to pick up a kit. These sites will not be open for PCR testing on Saturday and Sunday. Note: All on-campus sites will be closed on Monday, May 30th. COVID-19 Guidance: In line with our COVID-19 prevention and mitigation goals for Commencement, Cornell University: Requires all guests, students, faculty and staff to wear high quality masks for all indoor gatherings, except when eating or drinking. Encourages Cornell students, faculty and staff to remain up-to-date with vaccines Encourages visitors to be fully vaccinated and up-to-date with boosters Expects visitors to test for COVID-19 before travelling to Ithaca Expects all who are in Ithaca to monitor for COVID-19-like symptoms before coming to campus and/or engaging in campus-related events Expects all who are in Ithaca and who are symptomatic to test for COVID-19 Expects all who are in Ithaca to isolate if diagnosed with COVID-19, or to quarantine if indicated, in line with county health department directives Encourages visitors to pack an antigen test or two, for use, if needed, while in Ithaca. To support these actions, Cornell University will: Provide masks free of charge to all program and event participants Provide hand sanitizer in dispensers across campus Provide testing upon request to all Cornell students, faculty, and staff Provide isolation support upon request to Cornell students Commencement Speaker Per Cornell tradition, the university president will deliver the Commencement address at each of the two (2) Commencement ceremonies and confer degrees. Livestream Viewing Livestream Viewing Links – Saturday, May 28, 2022: View the 1st Commencement Ceremony Livestream @ 9:00am EST View the 2nd Commencement Ceremony Livestream @ 1:30pm EST View the PhD Ceremony Livestream @ 5:00pm EST Indoor Viewing Indoor Viewing Locations on Campus Commencement will be livestreamed on large indoor screens at Lynah Rink and Statler Hall – Statler Auditorium. This is a great option for guests who prefer to avoid the heat/cold/rain. To get to the indoor viewing locations, you will follow the same parking arrangements no matter the weather, then ride a bus or walk/wheel to the location. TVs in Campus Residence Hall Lounges Commencement will only be on DirecTV channel 133, rain or shine, at 10:00am and 2:30pm on Saturday. Parking On Saturday, all central campus roads, including those surrounding Schoellkopf Field, will be closed 7:00am-5:00pm for the safety of pedestrians. Please review parking and directions for parking, buses, and accessibility information. Safety & Security To enroll your cellphone to receive emergency notifications, text “CornellVisitor” to 226787. The safety and security of everyone on campus is of great importance to Cornell University, so please review security measures for Commencement Weekend. Cornell reserves the right to search persons and property. Bags will be searched. Those without bags will enter faster. No alcohol, glass bottles, or pets allowed at Schoellkopf Field. Graduate Registration and Guest Reservation Form Graduates have been asked to register themselves and their guests to attend their conferring college ceremony at either 10 a.m. or 2:30 p.m. by May 27. Information is posted here. Accessibility Planning We are pleased to offer two parking and seating plans (Yellow or Blue) for guests with reduced mobility, limited stamina, sign language needs, medical concerns, or who may use a wheelchair or walker. Accessibility Plans are valid ONLY on Saturday. Guests with Blue Plans enter the Crescent and sit in general seating. Arrive early to secure seating near portals and reduce the number of stairs to climb/descend. Guests with Yellow Plans enter the stadium via the Hoy Parking Garage, west side of Schoellkopf Field, and sit at the south end of the field in folding chairs or wheelchairs. Note: Guests bringing a wheelchair or scooter to the stadium (for seating or to keep nearby) must have a Yellow Plan. Click here for more details regarding Accessibility Planning. Commencement Program Commencement Programs are distributed at Schoellkopf on Saturday. Programs also list the Saturday college events and a map of their locations. Make sure everyone in your party knows the graduate’s college and department in advance! If your student has an event following their university Commencement ceremony, you will need this information in order to look up the student’s next event in the program, find the location and review the nearest bus stop in order to meet your student there. Note: Cell service may not be reliable inside the full stadium, making it temporarily difficult to reach your student for information while in the stadium. Seating General Seating at Schoellkopf is in the Crescent which is bleacher-style with stairs and no back support. From the Crescent Lot, guests walk to the concourse underneath the Crescent, then walk through an entryway (portal) that leads into the Crescent bleachers inside the stadium. These entryways are 2/3 of the way up in the Crescent, not near the ground or field level. Guests walk up or down from the portals to find open seating. Earlier arrival is recommended for large groups hoping to find seating together. Accessibility: Two types of Accessibility Plans are available upon request and are valid on Saturday. Click here for more information about Accessibility Planning. Graduates sit in chairs on the field, grouped by their degree-conferring college. Strollers: The Crescent is all bleacher seating, which is not conducive to large strollers. There is a place to park a stroller outside the Crescent, at your own risk. Smaller umbrella style strollers are fine since they can be folded and stored on a lap. Pets are prohibited from university-controlled buildings, except for these animals that are specifically exempted by this policy Weather Plan In good and fair weather, the Commencement ceremonies will take place at Schoellkopf Field, as planned. The stadium does not have roof, so prepare for all weather conditions, including rain showers or several hours in the sun. If potentially dangerous weather, torrential downpour, high winds, lightning, or any other condition is deemed too unsafe to hold the ceremonies at the stadium, we will enact our Severe Weather Plan and events may be canceled and not rescheduled. Please review the Severe Weather Plan for Commencement Ceremonies. Contact Us Office of University Commencement Events B13 Day Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 commencement@cornell.edu May Future Dates May 27-29, 2022 May 26-28, 2023 May 24-26, 2024 May 23-25, 2025 December Future Dates Sunday, December 18, 2022 Sunday, December 17, 2023 Sunday, December 22, 2024 Sunday, December 21, 2025 © 2022 Cornell University Web Accessibility Help Hosted by CampusPress Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Top