Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Ceremonies School Ceremonies Business School Business School Congratulations to the Class of 2022! Contact your individual school with questions related to Class Day ceremonies, and visit the graduating students and announcements pages for the most current updates. The Columbia Business School has several ceremonies to celebrate the accomplishments of the graduating students from its different programs. Recognition Ceremony for Executive MBA Candidates Date: Saturday, May 14, 2022 Time: 7:45-10:00 a.m. Location: South Lawn, Morningside Campus Speaker: Faculty and student speakers Registration: To be announced Diplomas: Diplomas will be mailed to students following graduation. Based on the degree conferral date for all graduates, diplomas will be sent to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file. Graduates may update their “DP Address" on SSOL. School Contact: Brandon Kelly [email protected] Recognition Ceremony for MBA Candidates Date: Sunday, May 15, 2022 Time: 8:00 - 10:15 a.m. Location: South Lawn, Morningside Campus Speaker: To be announced Registration: To be announced Diplomas: Diplomas will be mailed following graduation to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file, based on each graduate’s degree conferral date. Verify or update your DP address on Student Services Online (SSOL). Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. School Graduation Website: https://www8.gsb.columbia.edu/graduation/ceremony School Contact: Laura Tierney [email protected] Recognition Ceremony for PhD Candidates Date: Monday, May 16, 2022 Time: 6:00 p.m. Location: Henry R. Kravis Hall, Manhattanville Campus Speaker: To be announced Registration: To be announced Diplomas: Diplomas will be mailed following graduation to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file, based on each graduate’s degree conferral date. Verify or update your DP address on Student Services Online (SSOL). Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. School Graduation Website: To be announced School Contact: Elizabeth Elam [email protected] Recognition Ceremony for MS Candidates Date: Tuesday, May 17, 2022 Time: 5:00 p.m. Location: Manhattanville Campus Speaker: To be announced Registration: To be announced Diplomas: Diplomas will be mailed following graduation to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file, based on each graduate’s degree conferral date. Verify or update your DP address on Student Services Online (SSOL). Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. School Graduation Website: https://www8.gsb.columbia.edu/graduation/ceremony School Contact: Elizabeth Elam [email protected] Helpful Links Webcast Announcements School Ceremonies Schedule of Events Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Commencement Office Questions? We're available by email. E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close