Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Congratulations, Graduates! Georgia Tech hosted its spring Commencement ceremonies on May 6 and 7, 2022. View the Ceremony Schedule Welcome Spring Commencement Georgia Tech hosted its Spring 2022 Commencement ceremonies on May 6 and 7, 2022. View ceremony times Quick Links Student Information Plan your Visit Venue Information Parking Commencement FAQs Ceremony Highlights Catch our ceremony highlights! You can view our Flickr gallery, read stories about graduates in our news center, or watch our ceremony highlight video. Ceremony Live Stream All our ceremonies are available to view on YouTube. Watch the ceremony Find your photos Find your individual photo of when you walked across the stage on the GradImages website. Find your photo Spring 2022 Online Program View our online program and list of graduates. View Online Program Celebrate with Swag We have virtual swag and print-at-home signs to celebrate your achievement Download virtual swag Commencement FAQs Visit our FAQs page for answers to common Commencement questions. More Information Graduation Checklist Learn what steps you'll need to complete to graduate and participate in Commencement. View the checklist Venue Information View information about the venue and what you can bring to the ceremony. Learn more Event Survey Whether you watched in person or online, we would love to hear your feedback on the ceremony. Feedback Survey RSVP is Closed The Commencement RSVP site is closed for the Spring 2022 Commencement ceremonies. Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN