Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Grad Fest Monday, Feb. 21 10 a.m. – 2 p.m.- Schedule your graduate portrait here. Portraits will be taken in the Poole Room in the Wardlaw Center. 10 a.m. – 4 p.m.- Learn more about ordering your class ring from Balfour, at the Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech bookstore. Noon- Virtual event: Marketing Yourself to Employers with Limited Experience Learn how to market your skillset to increase your chances of getting a job offer. Register here. Tuesday, Feb. 22 10 a.m. – 2p.m.- Schedule your graduate portrait here. Portraits will be taken in the Poole Room in the Wardlaw Center. 10 a.m. – 4 p.m.- Learn more about ordering your class ring from Balfour, at the Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech bookstore. 3 p.m.- In-person event: Navigating the Job & Internship Search Clough Commons, room 423 Learn how to develop a job search strategy that builds on Career Center staples. This event will also cover time management and bouncing back from setbacks. Wednesday, Feb. 23 11 a.m. – 2 p.m. - Grad Fest Day Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Grad Fest Day is a one-stop shop for graduating bachelor's, master's and Ph.D. students to complete their commencement requirements. All spring graduates are encouraged to participate. Noon- Virtual event- Resume 102: Improving Your Resume Go beyond the basics of resume writing to learn how you can tailor your document, communicate effectively through your bullets, and other pro tips. Register here. Thursday, Feb. 24 10 a.m. – 2 p.m.- Schedule your graduate portrait here. Portraits will be taken in the Poole Room in the Wardlaw Center. Friday, Feb. 25 10 a.m. – 2 p.m.- Schedule your graduate portrait here. Portraits will be taken in the Poole Room in the Wardlaw Center. Regalia Information All regalia is available to order on the Barnes and Noble website. Note there will be different seals on regalia as we transition to the new Georgia Tech brand identity. All orders should be in by the respective dates below. Late fees will apply: Bachelor's regalia- $79.98 Deadline- Monday, April 18 Late fee- $20 Master's regalia- $114.98 Deadline- Monday, April 18 Late fee- $35 Ph.D. Rental- $79.98 Refundable deposit- $400 Deadline- Thursday, March 31 Late fee- $50 The Ph.D. custom order deadline is Friday, March 11. This is for customized, specially-fitted Ph.D. gown orders and not rentals. The Ph.D. rental deposit is refunded when the rental gown is returned to the bookstore in good condition. Ph.D. rentals require the separate purchase of a Tam. The cost to purchase a Tam is $111 in addition to the rental fee. Ph.D. hoods are a gift from the Institute and therefore do not need to be purchased. Students are responsible for providing their own regalia for graduation photos. More information regarding regalia can be found on the Commencement Regalia website. Order Regalia Here RSVP for Commencement The RSVP period for Spring 2022 ceremony will be announced soon. An RSVP is required to attend the ceremony. Details on tickets will be announced soon. RSVP Here Other Events: President's Graduation Celebration Thursday, May 5 11 a.m. – 2 p.m. Tech Green Graduates are invited to create one last Tech memory at the President’s Graduation Celebration on Thursday, May 5, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. on Tech Green. Take time to celebrate by taking pictures with Buzz and the Ramblin’ Wreck, and enjoy other fun activities. More information can be found on the President's Graduation Celebration event website. What happens at Grad Fest? Grad Fest is your one-stop-shop for all of your Commencement requirements. While at the event, you can: Purchase your regalia online at a discounted rate for pickup at the Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech. Discounted Starbucks beverages when picking up regalia at the Georgia Tech Bookstore. Take professional cap and gown photos by Grad Images with your purchased regalia. Graduate portraits can be purchased after the event. Learn more about ordering your class ring from Balfour. Attend virtual and in-person events hosted by the Career Center. Learn more about being a member of the Alumni Association. All regalia purchases made on Monday, Feb. 21, until Friday, Feb. 25, are automatically entered into a raffle for a Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech alumni gift basket. How should I prepare for Grad Fest? No prep is required from students—just show up! Because we offer photo opportunities, many students like to come ready to be photographed. What if I cannot attend Grad Fest? This event is a convenience, not a requirement. You can accomplish most of these activities outside of Grad Fest by contacting the vendor. Students who order regalia online during Grad Fest week are eligible for the raffle. This also is the only opportunity for graduating students to take cap and gown photos. Grad Fest Supporting Partners Balfour Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Career Center Georgia Tech Alumni Association GradImages Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN