Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Plan Your Visit Families & Guests Families & Guests Ceremonies & Events There are many events throughout Commencement Week, and each school honors its graduates through its own Class Days, graduation ceremonies, and events. The entire University community also comes together for University Commencement to celebrate all of the graduates from Columbia's nineteen schools, colleges, and affiliate institutions including Barnard College and Teachers College. Ceremonies & Events View the Schedule of Events The President of the University gives remarks and officially confers degrees on the graduates. This is a long-standing tradition and a memorable and celebratory event. Ticket Information Tickets are required for most ceremonies, including the University Commencement ceremony. All graduating students who wish to participate in the University Commencement ceremony are required to register and to obtain guest tickets, if desired. Only graduating students are able to request tickets and they will receive regular emails from their individual school with information on how to do this. Disability Services does not require special tickets to receive support. Columbia University is committed to making the events and activities of Commencement Week accessible to all graduates and guests. Learn more about available accommodations and support. Plan Your Visit Below is a list of resources that should prove helpful when planning your visit to campus. You may also reference our FAQs. If you have any additional questions, please contact the Commencement Office. Announcements Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Helpful Links Webcast Announcements School Ceremonies Schedule of Events Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Commencement Office Questions? We're available by email. E: [email protected] Read Our FAQs RESOURCE HIGHLIGHTS School Ceremonies Each school honors its graduates with a separate graduation ceremony Disability Services Learn how we facilitate equal access for students with disabilities Frequently Asked Questions Find answers to frequently asked questions and helpful tips about Commencement Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close