Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Graduating Students Graduating Students Congratulations to the Class of 2022! Learn more about the various ceremonies and experiences that make up Commencement Week! Customize your festivities and visit the Announcements page for the most current updates. CREATE & SHARE YOUR MEMORIES Walk down memory lane! Who made your time at Columbia exceptional? Who are you celebrating Commencement with? Share your memories below, or tag Columbia and use #RoarLions2022 Share Now University Commencement Ceremony The Columbia University Commencement ceremony of the 268th academic year will take place on Wednesday, May 18, 2022 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT). Visit the announcements page for the most current updates. Be prepared for the candidate lineup starting at 7:45 a.m. and make sure to inform your guests about what they should bring with them on Commencement day. Learn More School Ceremonies Each of Columbia’s nineteen schools, colleges, and affiliate institutions conduct their own graduation event to honor the accomplishments of their graduating class. Sometimes called Class Day or Graduation Ceremony, these celebrations are typically smaller in size and more intimate than University Commencement. Webcasts Schedule of Events Find Your Ceremony BACCALAUREATE SERVICE This annual multifaith service celebrates the completion of each undergraduate's academic career. Learn More & Register COMMENCEMENT WEEK CHECKLIST This checklist will help you prepare for Commencement Week. If you need additional information, please email the Commencement Office at [email protected]. View Checklist ACCESSIBILITY Columbia University is committed to ensuring that Commencement Week is accessible to all graduates, family, and friends. If you need an accommodation for a ceremony, please contact Disability Services. Learn More DIDN’T FIND WHAT YOU WERE LOOKING FOR? Read Our FAQs Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close