Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Commencement Information for Students Commencement Information for Students Ceremony Details Our Commencement ceremonies details have been announced; you can view all guidelines on our ceremony details page. Venue and Ceremony Information What to Expect at Commencement Watch this short video for an overview of what to expect as a graduate attending Commencement! Quick Links Student Information Ticketing Venue Information Summer Grad Information How to Wear Regalia Watch this short video to see how to properly wear your academic regalia for Commencement! Learn more Commencement Calendar View important dates, events and deadlines for Spring 2022 Commencement, and add them to your own calendar! View Calendar Ceremony Details Student Recognition Students will walk on stage to receive their faux diploma from the president. Each attending student will have their individual name called and displayed on the jumbotron as they walk across stage. Students will then take a photo with the Ramblin' Wreck before returning to their seat. Student Seating Bachelors and masters will be seated by college on the field. Ph.D. students will be grouped by degree level. Students will walk in the order they sit. Students will seat themselves as they arrive and will not be placed in alphabetical order. Name Card: GradPass Name cards, also known as your GradPass, will be accessed via your mobile device. This is what you will need to have on your phone or printed when you enter the stadium on ceremony day for your name to be properly displayed and announced as you walk across the stage. Students can access their GradPass by logging into their Marching Order account they created when they submitted their RSVP and selecting "GradPass." Students can print at home or take a screenshot of the QR code to avoid loading it at the ceremony. If you are unable to access your GradPass, please contact the Commencement Office. If we have emailed your GradPass to you, please check your spam folder for the email. There will be a troubleshooting table set up at Commencement to help with GradPass issues that you will need to go to if you arrive without your GradPass. Step by Step Instructions Photo Finish GradImages, your official graduation photographer, will take professional photos at each Commencement activity and send out proofs shortly after your event. At the President's Graduation Celebration: GradImages will take photos with you, your family and friends, and the Ramblin' Wreck During the ceremony: GradImages will photograph your official graduation portrait, plus close-ups of you crossing the stage Immediately after the ceremony: Grab a photographer to take candid photos of you with family and friends Proofs of your formal and candid shots will be sent via email the week after your graduation event. You can also visit gradimages.com after the ceremony to view and order your images. Wondering where to take photos with your grad after the ceremony? View our suggestions for campus hot spots Graduation Checklist Learn what is required to graduate and participate in Commencement. Graduation Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Have a question about tickets, ADA seating, guests, or just general graduation issues? Commencement FAQs Academic Regalia Regalia is required to participate in Commencement. Information about regalia for bachelor’s, master’s, and Ph.D. students including pricing and purchasing: Academic Regalia Tickets Tickets are not required. All ceremonies are general admission. Ticketing Information Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN