Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Office of Public Affairs & Communications For the Media For the Yale Community News, Events, Publications Contact Us About Home > For the Yale Community For the Yale Community OPAC can help you communicate your work to members of the media and to a wider audience. Here are some of the helpful communication tools and services available to the Yale community. Media Training When a reporter calls, be prepared. OPAC provides helpful learning techniques and tips to help you achieve good press. News Release Guidelines Helpful guidelines intended to serve as a style resource and to promote consistency in the press releases reporters receive from offices across Yale. Photos Need an image for your website or publication? Browse the Yale Photo Collection for shots of campus, events, people and more. Yale Identity Information on Yale’s visual identity for print and digital. Find out the proper use of the Yale logo, typeface, and colors, and how to download related files. Yale Broadcast Studio The Broadcast Studio provides a wide range of video and audio services to the Yale community. The center includes two fully-equipped television studios, an audio recording studio and a fully-integrated videoconferencing room. Mobile App Learn how to download the official Yale app, Yale Mobile, for campus news, events, maps, and more. Social Media OPAC manages Yale’s official social media channels, including Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, and offers expertise in all things social. Web Publishing Resources Yale offers several web publishing options for faculty and staff interested in website development. OPAC’s digital strategy team can advise departments and organizations on how to get started, including guidance on content strategy and using the university’s free web publishing tool YaleSites (powered by Drupal). Yale Message (Email marketing tool) Yale Message is an email marketing tool built on Salesforce Marketing Cloud. Send enewsletters and targeted communications to university and non-university audiences. General Information Yale University Office of Public Affairs & Communications 2 Whitney Avenue, Suite 330 New Haven, CT 06510, USA view map Phone: 203-432-1345 Fax: 203-432-1323 questions & comments Information for Students Read our guidelines for addressing media inquiries and how to seek assistance. information for students Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 2 Whitney Avenue, Suite 330, New Haven, CT 06510 | 203-432-1345 Browse Yale News | Contact OPAC Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Instagram