Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Commencement Main navigation Home Spring 2022 Ceremony Ceremony and Venue Information Live Webstream President's Message Parking Program RSVP for Commencement Schedule of Events Seating President's Graduation Celebration Students Students Graduation Checklist Grad Fest Important Commencement Dates Regalia President's Graduation Celebration Summer Graduates Student Reflection Speaker Parents and Guests Parents and Guests Accessibility and Special Needs Commencement FAQs Parking Plan Your Visit President's Graduation Celebration Venue Information Faculty & Staff Future Dates User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search President's Graduation Celebration All graduates are invited to create one last Tech memory prior to their Commencement ceremony. President's Graduation Celebration Graduates are invited to create one last Tech memory at the President’s Graduation Celebration on Thursday, May 5, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. on Tech Green. Take time to celebrate by taking pictures with Buzz and the Ramblin’ Reck, and enjoy other fun activities. RSVP Here About the Celebration Photo opportunities with Buzz, the Wreck, and other backdrops are available for purchase from Grad Images. Purchase Georgia Tech merchandise. Visit with representatives from the Alumni Association and Parent and Family Programs. Take a selfie with your family and friends. Enjoy light refreshments and music from our live DJ. Pick up your Ph.D. hoods, honor cords, or Honor's Program stole. Attire There is no specific dress code for the President's Graduation Celebration. We encourage graduates to bring their regalia to wear, as multiple photo opportunities are available. Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Georgia Institute of Technology 150 Bobby Dodd Way NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-5480 Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN