Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Awardees Kathie-Ann Patrice Joseph Kathie-Ann Patrice Joseph Kathie-Ann Patrice Joseph ’95VP&S is Professor of Surgery and Population Health and Vice Chair of Diversity and Health Equity for the Department of Surgery and Transplant Institute at NYU Langone Health. Joseph’s relationship with the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons began before she enrolled in medical school. As a student at Stuyvesant High School, she participated in Columbia’s PREP program for underrepresented minority high school students and would take the train every Saturday from Flatbush, Brooklyn to take classes in Washington Heights from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. These classes, taught by Columbia VP&S students, inspired Joseph as she continued to Harvard University, graduating cum laude in sociology. She returned to Columbia to study medicine and public health at VP&S and the Mailman School of Public Health and to teach in Columbia’s PREP program. Dr. Kenneth Forde, himself an active VP&S alumnus, was her surgery preceptor and mentor. Joseph has been an active member of the VP&S Alumni Association, serving as corresponding secretary from 2012-2014, Vice President 2014-2016, and President from 2016-2018. In 2019, she started the VP&S Women in Medicine Collaborative to further engage VP&S alumnae with our medical students. Joseph is married to David Joseph, ’95VP&S, and they have two sons, Devon and Justin. Return to Alumni Medalists ’95VP&S Return to Alumni Medalists Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close