Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Communications Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders Main Navigation Degrees Show Extended Please use Google Chrome for the best view of the information B.A. Communication Disorders Catalog Information M.A. Communication Disorders Catalog Information Notice To Students re: Professional Licensure And Certification Communicative Disorders Certification Communicative Disorders Licensure Speech-Language Pathology Services Credential PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS Show Extended Application-Undergraduate Application-Graduate Catalog Facilities and Labs Financial Aid College of Communications Themed Housing Community Housing Testing CURRENT STUDENTS Show Extended Advising and Student Success Assistant Dean for Student Affairs Career Center Catalog Student Life and Engagement Commencement Facilities and Labs Final Exams Financial Aid Internship Scholarships Tutoring COMD 495, Internship in Communication Sciences and Disorders Major and Minor Add/Drop Forms ABOUT US Show Extended Contact Us Faculty & Staff Speech & Hearing Clinic A Commitment to Justice, Equity, and Respect for Diversity of all Kinds Student Outcome Data Department Accreditation Upcoming Event Make a Gift B.A. IN COMMUNICATIVE DISORDERS (DEGREE NAME) The Bachelor of Arts in Communicative Disorders requires 42 units within the major. 39 of the units are required and 3 are elective. All students also complete 51 units of general education, leaving 27 units of free electives to obtain the 120 units needed for graduation. In addition to BA degree requirements, there are other coursework requirements that are not required for graduation but that must be completed by the end of a student’s graduate degree program if they are planning to obtain the following two credentials: a) Certificate of Clinical Competence in Speech-Language Pathology (CCC) from ASHA (required for employment in hospitals, private practice and licensure for most states) and b) preliminary Speech-Language Pathology Services Credential in Language, Speech, and Hearing (SLPSC) required for work in California’s public schools. For more detailed information regarding the coursework for these credentials, refer to undergraduate handouts under Resources. Most students who pursue the Bachelor of Arts in Communicative Disorders intend to complete a Master of Arts degree in Communicative Disorders, since this is the entrance-level degree for practice as a speech-language pathologist in both the public school and the health care systems. The Bachelor of Arts degree also provides excellent preparation for pursuit of teaching credentials, and students are encouraged to consider this degree to prepare for careers as teachers, especially if they are interested in early childhood, special, or elementary education. Students can complete requirements for entrance into most teaching credential programs within the 120-unit minimum required for a Bachelor of Arts degree through careful planning. Department office location and contact information College Park 425 Phone: 657-278-3274 Email: comdassistant@fullerton.edu DEPARTMENT CHAIR Dr. HyeKyeung Seung College Park 425-1 Phone: (657) 278-7602 Email: hseung@fullerton.edu UNDERGRADUATE ADVISER Dr. Minjung Kim College Park 420-20 Phone: (657) 278-3927 Email: minjungk@fullerton.edu OBJECTIVES The Bachelor of Arts in Communication Sciences Disorders (CSD) is designed to: Ensure the pre-eminence of learning by addressing the knowledge and skill areas needed for admission to Master’s programs in speech-language pathology (SLP), clinical doctoral programs in audiology (Au.D.), or speech-language pathology assistant (SLPA) programs; Provide a high-quality program by ongoing identification of the most appropriate student learning outcomes; Incorporate formative and summative assessment instruments to evaluate student achievement; Create an environment where students have opportunities to succeed, including some opportunities for research RESOURCES COMD Transfer academic plan (Catalog yr_Fall 21 and Later) COMD Transfer academic plan (Catalog yr_Fall 19-Sp 21) COMD Freshman academic plan (Catalog yr_Fall 21 and Later) COMD Freshman academic plan (Catalog yr_Fall 19-Sp 21) Undergraduate Advising Video for Transfer Students Undergraduate Advising Video for First-Time-Freshmen Undergraduate Overview handout Course requirements with prerequisites COMD checklist COMD B.A Roadmap Faculty Members Scholarship Student Activities Career Options after the B.A. degrees This site is maintained by College of Communications. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact commwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.