Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Communications Main navigation Home About About Us Meet the Team Careers Brand Brand Standards and Guidelines Our Voice Our Look Licensing Licensing and Trademarks Campus Resources External Communications About Media and PR Op-Ed and News Pitching Social Media State Outreach Internal Communications Campus Communications Campus Calendar On-Campus Advertising Campus Communicator Contacts Events at Georgia Tech About Event Planning Event Coordinator Network (External Link) Georgia Tech Special Events (External Link) Photo and Video About Photography and Videography Photo and Video Guides Scheduling a Headshot Websites Website Development Content Strategy Hiring Website Vendors Meeting and Training Opportunities Meetings and Training Presentation Archives (GT Account Required) Media and Vendors Media Inquiries Promotional Inquiries User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Headshots for Faculty and Staff Breadcrumb Home Headshot portraits for Georgia Tech faculty and staff are scheduled by appointment only on Tuesdays from 11 a.m. – 1 p.m. and are taken in the photography studio of the William C. Wardlaw Center. Scheduling Email headshots@gatech.edu with your name and department name in the subject line: Let us know If you prefer a specific time slot on a specific Tuesday. Otherwise, you will be offered the next available appointment. Please confirm the appointment promptly, as time slots are offered first come, first served. Headshot Delivery Your headshots will be delivered via email 1-2 days following your appointment. The email will contain a link to download the hi-res images from Dropbox or Image Portal. Tip: We remove folders from Dropbox monthly. We encourage you to download photos from Dropbox immediately since it’s not a permanent home for photos, and folders are subject to removal at any time. Institute Communications does not offer retouching or Photoshop enhancement services. Cancellations Please contact headshots@gatech.edu at least 24 hours prior to your appointment. Directions to the Photography Studio Wardlaw Center is attached to the south side of Bobby Dodd Stadium. From Tech Square, walk to Techwood Drive and travel south to the entrance on North Avenue. The Stinger buses also drop off in front of Wardlaw Center. The photography studio is located on the Field Level. Take the elevator down by pressing the [F] button. When you exit the elevator, take a left, then a right when you come to the hallway. Walk to the very end of the hall. At the end of the hall are double doors out to the stadium field. The photography studio and a waiting area will be to the right of the double doors, and bathrooms are located on the left. At your appointment time, please wait for our photographers in the waiting area outside of the studio. Photos and Video Photography and Videography Overview Photo and Video Guides Scheduling a Headshot Our Photography Studio Wardlaw Center 177 N Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0181 Campus Map Institute Communications Georgia Institute of Technology 177 North Avenue NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0181 404.894.0870 Institute Communications Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education