Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Wellness Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What We Do About the Center TASHE News Events Meet Our Team Services Ask-A-Nurse Enrollment Assistance Program Health Counseling Training InTOuCH Mental Health First Aid Columbia | Wellness Center You are here: Home Events Health Communication Equation: Ask The Docs Events Past Event Health Communication Equation: Ask The Docs Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 7, 2021 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM YouTube LiveStream In a world filled with information — and misinformation — how do we authentically connect with one another and explore vital public health topics that impact us all? Distilling complex information into clear messages that break through the noise, spark engagement and inspire behavior change is a perennial challenge, and even more so during year two of an ongoing global pandemic. Dr. Max Gomez will moderate a virtual town hall with Dr. Olajide Williams (the Hip Hop Doc), Dr. Monique Hedmann (Docta Mo Flow), and Dr. Ana Cepin (Dra. Ana G) to discover how Hip Hop Public Health uses music and art to break it all down. Research shows that culturally relevant and community-based art is a powerful force for health behavior change. During the pandemic, Hip Hop Public Health has applied its evidence-based multi-sensory, multi-level health education model to spread the word about health behaviors, like hand-washing and masks, that protect against COVID-19, and to increase vaccine literacy and uptake in communities of color through culturally-relevant songs and music videos. Using the newly launched Inmunidad Comunidad, a reggaeton remix of Hip Hop Public Health’s Community Immunity series, as a case study, the panel explores why music is such a powerful public health tool; how a tailored, community-focused approach works in practice; and the ways in which we can all connect with and inspire our communities. Upcoming Events Jerome L. Greene Science Center610 W. 130th St. · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1146 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close