Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Office of Public Affairs & Communications For the Media For the Yale Community News, Events, Publications Contact Us About Home > About Us About OPAC The Office of Public Affairs & Communications works in partnership with school and departmental communications and media colleagues to promote the institution and to tell the many stories of Yale. We provide a variety of communications services to faculty and staff and we connect members of the media with our faculty members. We aim to inform and engage various audiences. Our staff provides expertise in the following areas: Media Relations We provide assistance to reporters and disseminate the university’s news. We write news releases, provide media training for faculty and staff, arrange video/radio feeds, and assist with op-eds. Digital Strategy We oversee Yale’s main website at Yale.edu and produce digital content, websites, and tools that support the strategic goals of the institution. Yale News & Events Calendar Our office oversees Yale’s public events calendar and manages the university’s official news channels: the Yale News website and daily email, Yale Today. Find out about novel medical and science research, events taking place on campus, and achievements by faculty, staff and students. Social Media OPAC manages Yale’s official social media channels, including Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Follow Yale for all the latest news, events, and updates. For more information on our services or to send comments, contact us. General Information Yale University Office of Public Affairs & Communications 2 Whitney Avenue, Suite 330 New Haven, CT 06510, USA view map Phone: 203-432-1345 Fax: 203-432-1323 questions & comments Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 2 Whitney Avenue, Suite 330, New Haven, CT 06510 | 203-432-1345 Browse Yale News | Contact OPAC Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Instagram