Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Awardees Laura Kurgan Laura Kurgan Laura Kurgan is Professor of Architecture at the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia University, where she directs the Center for Spatial Research (CSR) and the Visual Studies curriculum. She is the author of Close Up at a Distance: Mapping, Technology, and Politics (Zone Books, 2013), and Co-Editor of Ways of Knowing Cities (Columbia Books on Architecture, 2019). From 2004 through 2015, she founded and directed the Spatial Information Design Lab (SIDL) at GSAPP. Her work explores the ethics and politics of digital mapping and its technologies; the art, science, and visualization of big and small data; and design environments for public engagement with maps and data. CSR work has been exhibited internationally, at the Chicago Architecture Biennial (2019), at the Biennale Architettura di Venezia 2018, in the Jerome L. Greene Science Center at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute 2017, at the Istanbul Design Biennial 2016, at the Oslo Architecture Triennale 2016, and at Palais De Tokyo 2016. Professor Kurgan’s work is in the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City and the Fondation Cartier in Paris. Her writings have been published widely, including articles in e-Flux, the Harvard Design Magazine, Grey Room, Volume, and Architectural Design. For her work as a designer, Professor Kurgan was awarded a United States Artists Rockefeller Fellowship, in 2009, and she was named a Game Changer by Metropolis in 2012. As Director of the Center for Spatial Research and the Spatial Information Design Lab, she has been Principal Investigator on research supported by the Open Society Foundations, the Ford Foundation, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, and the Gardiner Foundation. Current topics of her research at CSR include justice mapping, conflict urbanism, spatial inequality, algorithms and social justice, and historical New York City. Return to Mentoring Awards Professor of Architecture Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation Return to Mentoring Awards Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close