Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Office of Public Affairs & Communications For the Media For the Yale Community News, Events, Publications Contact Us About Home > For the Media For the Media From helping reporters meet a looming deadline to assisting with long-lead stories, the staff at the Office of Public Affairs & Communications can provide timely help to print, broadcast and online media. Media Access to Campus The Yale Office of Public Affairs & Communications (OPAC) requires all media outlets wishing to visit the Yale campus for any purpose to notify OPAC and receive permission. Depending on the purpose of the visit, OPAC may require that media members be escorted or display a Yale-issued media credential. No media members may enter a Yale building or gated courtyard without OPAC’s permission and escort. Members of the Yale community who are approached on campus by media members are encouraged to refer them to OPAC, which can accommodate their needs and, when appropriate, schedule and facilitate interviews with members of the Yale community. OPAC’s policies apply to all media members, including those who wish to record audio or pictures, regardless of whether the recording involves interviews with Yale community members. Media Contacts Whether you’re seeking a story idea, putting the finishing touches on a piece, or looking for an expert, connect with an OPAC communications officer to help you meet your deadline. Media Kits Find helpful information about selected announcements, events, and exhibitions at Yale. Filming at Yale News reporters with camera crews must schedule all visits to university grounds with the OPAC team. Video, photographic images or audio of students must not be captured without written consent from the individuals in question. For more information about filming on campus, please review our filming policies. News Releases Communications Officers at OPAC write news releases to publicize a variety of topics from groundbreaking research studies to major events taking place on campus. Yale Experts Guide Our faculty are available to be interviewed in a wide range of areas, offering expertise, commentary and perspective. Photos Request photos of Yale faculty, campus, and events, and consult campus photography policies. Presidential Speeches & Statements Speeches and other public statements by Yale University President Peter Salovey, which cover a wide range of topics concerning the university. Terms of Use for Photos & Video View our policies regarding use of Yale photos and video. Yale Broadcast Studio Learn about Yale’s audio/video recording and broadcasting capabilities and how we can assist members of the media. The studio includes two fully-equipped television studios, an audio recording studio with an Integrated Service Digital Network (ISDN) line and a fully-integrated videoconferencing room. Yale Facts & History General information and useful facts and stats about the university. General Information Yale University Office of Public Affairs & Communications 2 Whitney Avenue, Suite 330 New Haven, CT 06510, USA view map Phone: 203-432-1345 Fax: 203-432-1323 questions & comments Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 2 Whitney Avenue, Suite 330, New Haven, CT 06510 | 203-432-1345 Browse Yale News | Contact OPAC Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Instagram