Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Commencement Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Ceremonies Graduates Faculty & Staff Plan Your Visit 2020 & 2021 FAQs University Commencement Honorary Degree Recipients Teaching Awards Mentoring Awards Service Awards Alumni Medalist Awards Commencement History & Regalia Baccalaureate Service Schedule of Events Webcast Past Commencements School Ceremonies Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts Barnard College Business School Climate School Columbia College Dental Medicine Engineering and Applied Science General Studies Graduate School of Arts and Sciences International and Public Affairs Journalism School Law School Mailman School of Public Health Nursing Professional Studies Social Work Teachers College Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Ceremonies Commencement Week Checklist Disability Services Virtual Graduation Kit Families & Guests Schedule of Events Campus Maps Disability Services Parking & Directions Where to Stay Columbia University Commencement You are here: Home Learn more about ceremonies and events Learn more about ceremonies and events Congratulations to the Class of 2022! University Commencement will take place on Wednesday, May 18, 2022 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT). More details will be available in the coming weeks. For questions related to Class Day ceremonies, contact your individual school, and visit the announcements page for the most current updates. University Commencement This annual University-wide ceremony celebrates graduates from Columbia’s nineteen schools, colleges, and affiliate institutions. Degrees are symbolically conferred upon candidates by the President of the University. Learn More School Ceremonies Each of Columbia’s nineteen schools and institutions conduct their own ceremony to honor the accomplishments of their graduating class. Sometimes called Class Day or Graduation Ceremony, these celebrations are typically smaller in size and more intimate than University Commencement. Webcasts Schedule of Events Find Your Ceremony BACCALAUREATE SERVICE This annual multi-faith service celebrates the completion of each undergraduate's academic career. Learn More Classes of 2020 and 2021 Celebration An in-person celebration honoring the Classes of 2020 and 2021 will be held on Thursday, May 19, 2022. More details can be found on the ceremony page. Learn More Commissioning Ceremony This historic ceremony celebrates Columbia University graduates as they matriculate from their Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) programs and become commissioned officers in the United States Military. Learn More & Register Columbia’s Multicultural Graduation Celebrations: WHAT THEY MEAN AND WHY THEY ARE SPECIAL TO GRADUATES In addition to the university-wide Commencement ceremony and each school’s class day, our undergraduate students organize Multicultural Graduation Celebrations that allow them to celebrate the cultural intersections in their lives and honor the communities to which they belong. These celebrations are open to anyone in the Columbia community who would like to celebrate a particular culture or group. Learn More Phone 212-854-1753 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close