Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Wellness Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What We Do About the Center TASHE News Events Meet Our Team Services Ask-A-Nurse Enrollment Assistance Program Health Counseling Training InTOuCH Mental Health First Aid Columbia | Wellness Center You are here: Home What We Do Health Counseling Health Counseling Our Wellness Center staff offer health counseling services to assist individuals in managing their health numbers. We do this by performing a comprehensive biometric screening exam that consists of the following: Full Lipid Panel Cholesterol Exam Height and Weight Measurement Waist Circumference Measurement Blood Pressure Exam Stroke Risk Factor Assessment By having all of these services done, individuals are much more able to get a well-rounded picture of what their health status is, what risk factors to look out for, and what preventative measures they can take going forward. What Is A Lipid Panel Exam? Cholesterol is a form of fat that we all need. It helps our bodies stabilize the outer membranes of our cells. But for decades, clinicians have known that people with high cholesterol levels are more likely of developing heart disease. More recently, clinicians and researchers have found that the different types of cholesterol in our body play different roles. A Specially Designed Community Center Located on the ground floor of the Jerome L. Greene Science Center, the Wellness Center provides health resources to area residents. ColumbiaDoctors host community-based initiatives that train members of the Harlem community to become health advocates to prevent stroke and promote mental health. The center also provides free cholesterol and blood pressure screenings, health insurance enrollment, weight counseling, and other services. Please note that the Wellness Center is not a clinical practice. Message from the Directors 212-853-1146 [email protected] Categories Counseling Screening Jerome L. Greene Science Center610 W. 130th St. · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1146 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close