Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Commencement Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Livestream Weekend Info For 2020 Graduates For 2021 Graduates For 2022 Graduates Schedule 2020 Schedule 2022 Schedule Baccalaureate President's Reception Commencement School & Department Celebrations Business Earth Education Engineering Humanities and Sciences Law Medicine Community Center Celebrations Alumni Association Events Additional Events Graduates Faculty FAQs 2020 FAQs 2021 FAQs 2022 FAQs Plan Your Visit Guest Information Accessibility Alumni Main content start Commencement 2020 Commencement Ceremony For 2020 and 2021 Graduates Gates open at 7:30 a.m. Event Details: Saturday, June 11, 2022 9:30am - 11:30am PDT This event is open to: 2020/2021 Graduates 2020/2021 Guests Public Livestream *Note: these times include the processions and recessions Location Stanford Stadium 625 Nelson Rd Stanford, CA 94305 United States Map Commencement Speaker Stanford alum France Anne Córdova, astrophysicist and administrator, will be the Commencement Speaker at the commencement ceremony for 2020 graduates at Stanford University on Saturday, June 11, 2022. France A. Córdova is the president of the Science Philanthropy Alliance. She is an experienced leader in science, engineering and education with more than three decades experience at universities and national labs. Read More Live Broadcasts and Recordings The ceremony will be live-streamed on this website. The ceremony will broadcast live on Stanford's radio station KZSU FM 90.1 and on kzsu.stanford.edu. Video of the commencement ceremony will be available on Stanford's YouTube channel following the event. Accessibility Information Disability Parking The Track House Lot (Lot 6), located via Galvez Street will be reserved for guests displaying any state-issued or temporary disability parking permit. Individuals with mobility limitations can be dropped off closer to the Stadium (near Nelson Road), once inside the Track House Lot. Additional disability parking is located in the Galvez Lot, directly across the Track House Lot on Galvez Street. Accessible Entrance While all gate entrances to the Stadium are accessible, we recommend that guests with mobility limitations use the Gate 4 entrance after parking in the Track House Lot. Once through the gate, continue through the tunnel (step-free path) to the concourse level and lower bowl sections. An elevator is located at Gate 4 and Gate 5 to access the upper bowl sections. Mobility Assistance A limited number of ushers with wheelchairs will be available, beginning at 7:30 a.m., outside Gate 4 of the Stadium to assist in escorting guests with limited mobility into the Stadium. The ushers will drop the guest off near the disability seating and return at the end of the ceremony. No advanced registration is required for this service, and the wheelchair escort service will continue throughout the entire Stadium ceremony. Seating The majority of seating at the stadium will be in direct sunlight. Umbrellas will not be allowed. Some seating areas on the east and southeast sides of the stadium will be fully or partially shaded during the ceremony. Wheelchair seating is located at the concourse level, Row Y (via the tunnels) and is in full shade. Additional wheelchair seating is located in the upper bowl, Row V (via the elevator). In order to accommodate guests using wheelchairs, or those with other disability-related needs, we request only one companion per seat. A mobility section, located in Row W and X in the lower section is available for individuals who can only climb limited stairs (5-7 steps with a handrail) or who cannot sit in the sun. All seating is first come, first served. Stanford Commencement Web Login Address Office of Special Events & Protocol 425 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States commencement@stanford.edu (650) 725-9807 OSEP Website Stanford Facebook Stanford Twitter Stanford Instagram Youtube Stanford LinkedIn Quick Links 2020 FAQs 2021 FAQs 2022 FAQs Accessibility Traditions Past Ceremonies Heraldry Regalia Campus/COVID Related Announcements COVID Health-Related Visitor Information Health Alerts Info for Students Re-Approaching Stanford Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top