Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Wellness Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What We Do About the Center TASHE News Events Meet Our Team Services Ask-A-Nurse Enrollment Assistance Program Health Counseling Training InTOuCH Mental Health First Aid Columbia | Wellness Center You are here: Home Welcome to the Community Wellness Center Welcome to the Community Wellness Center Dear Community: It is with pleasure and a sense a great pride that we welcome you to the Columbia University Wellness Center. For us, this center represents a much-needed resource for the local community where health screening services, health insurance enrollment services, mental health training and stroke prevention training are all available to the community for free. Our culturally sensitive approach is based on years of our collective experience developing and implementing successful public health programs for communities of color. To this end, our center provides workshops to help build community capacity around health promotion, including Mental Health First Aid programming and our Community Health Worker training program. We not only screen for the most prevalent diseases in the community such as high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol, and depression; we also teach community residents how to screen for them in their own homes and local organizations through our formal training programs. The power of a community to create health is far greater than any doctor, clinic or hospital. The Columbia University Wellness Center is a community center: a safe space designed to support community health and wellness through partnerships and collaboration. To borrow the words of author and physician Mark Hyman, “the power of a community to create health is far greater than any doctor, clinic or hospital." We hope you will visit us soon, and meet with our nurses and public health team. Sincerely, Dr. Olajide Williams Dr. Sidney Hankerson Co-directors, Columbia University Wellness Center A Specially Designed Community Center Located on the ground floor of the Jerome L. Greene Science Center, the Wellness Center provides health resources to area residents. ColumbiaDoctors host community-based initiatives that train members of the Harlem community to become health advocates to prevent stroke and promote mental health. The center also provides free cholesterol and blood pressure screenings, health insurance enrollment, weight counseling, and other services. Please note that the Wellness Center is not a clinical practice. Message from the Directors 212-853-1146 [email protected] Jerome L. Greene Science Center610 W. 130th St. · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1146 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close