Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Communications Main navigation Home About About Us Meet the Team Careers Brand Brand Standards and Guidelines Our Voice Our Look Licensing Licensing and Trademarks Campus Resources External Communications About Media and PR Op-Ed and News Pitching Social Media State Outreach Internal Communications Campus Communications Campus Calendar On-Campus Advertising Campus Communicator Contacts Events at Georgia Tech About Event Planning Event Coordinator Network (External Link) Georgia Tech Special Events (External Link) Photo and Video About Photography and Videography Photo and Video Guides Scheduling a Headshot Websites Website Development Content Strategy Hiring Website Vendors Meeting and Training Opportunities Meetings and Training Presentation Archives (GT Account Required) Media and Vendors Media Inquiries Promotional Inquiries User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search About Website Development Breadcrumb Home Want to Build a Website? For units looking to build out their websites internally, there are a number of resources available at Georgia Tech that can help you along the way. These include: Design direction documentation. Site research templates. Web development guidance. Centrally created and supported website themes. Additionally, there are a number of groups at the Institute that regularly share knowledge in this space. Need to Hire a Website Vendor? For those considering hiring a third party for their website work, Georgia Tech has an enterprise-wide contract in place that allows you to quickly get estimates from a group of pre-approved vendors. Learn more: How to Hire a Website Vendor. Not Sure Where to Start? We recommend checking out our guide: A Non-Web Developer's Guide to a Website Redesign, a step-by-step walkthrough of the process. Resources for Webmasters How-to guides, tips, tricks, and other resources for the Georgia Tech web development community. Content Strategy Resources to help communicators create meaningful, cohesive, engaging, and sustainable content that attracts our target audiences. Digital Brand Guidelines Continuity of the graphical user interface from site to site is an important practice as part of user-friendly design. It also helps to strengthen Georgia Tech's brand visual identity. Websites Website Development Hiring Website Vendors Content Strategy Drupal 8 Theme Tour the expanded layout abilities of the Georgia Tech Drupal 8 theme (Curie) and the new Layout Builder. See examples of page layouts and instructions for their creation. Drupal 8 theme and tutorial Institute Communications Georgia Institute of Technology 177 North Avenue NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0181 404.894.0870 Institute Communications Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education