Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Wellness Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What We Do About the Center TASHE News Events Meet Our Team Services Ask-A-Nurse Enrollment Assistance Program Health Counseling Training InTOuCH Mental Health First Aid Columbia | Wellness Center You are here: Home What We Do Mental Health First Aid Mental Health First Aid The Wellness Center is a home base to Mental Health First Aid, a program dedicated to improving access to quality mental health in Harlem. African Americans and Latinos have the lowest rates of mental health treatment in the United States. To address this disparity, Mental Health First Aid works with local faith communities, training leaders to identify and respond to signs of depression and other mental illnesses, as well as substance-use disorders like alcoholism. Writing a New Story Together: Confronting Mental Health Disparities With Community Partnerships Sidney Hankerson, MD, assistant professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and the New York State Psychiatric Institute, directs the trainings through the Wellness Center. His team teaches people to combat the stigma often associated with mental health problems and encourages others to seek medical help. Mental Health First Aid also provides a list of local mental health clinics and other resources for the community. For more information, visit the Community Coalition for Mental Health. A Specially Designed Community Center Located on the ground floor of the Jerome L. Greene Science Center, the Wellness Center provides health resources to area residents. ColumbiaDoctors host community-based initiatives that train members of the Harlem community to become health advocates to prevent stroke and promote mental health. The center also provides free cholesterol and blood pressure screenings, health insurance enrollment, weight counseling, and other services. Please note that the Wellness Center is not a clinical practice. Message from the Directors 212-853-1146 [email protected] Categories Training Counseling Jerome L. Greene Science Center610 W. 130th St. · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1146 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close