University of Washington University of Washington Menu UW Home My UW Maps Calendar Directory Libraries Innovation Services Innovation Training Innovation Training Videos Intellectual Property Advising & Protection Funding & Competitions Mentorship Startups & Incubation CoMotion Labs Licensing & Agreements Material Transfer Agreements Student Opportunities About Vision, Mission, & Values Team Contact Us Careers Impact Rankings & Metrics Innovation Disclosures Heat Map Success Stories Search Spinoffs & Startups News & Events Blog CoMotion in the News Newsletter Press Releases Upcoming Events Fact Sheets & Logos Event Rental Request Form Support Us & Invest Partner Sponsor Become a mentor Invest Give Your Innovation Partner - Video Have an idea, invention, or discovery? CoMotion partners with the UW community on their innovation journey, providing tools, connections, and acumen to transform ideas into economic and societal impact. GET STARTED Ready to share your innovation with us? Request a consultation Submit a Record of Innovation (ROI) form COVID-19 Response Information CoMotion is a signatory to AUTM’s COVID-19 Licensing Guidelines to enable rapid access to university innovations addressing the current pandemic. Please note: Due to COVID-19, packages may not be successfully delivered by courier to CoMotion. If you need to send documents, please use uwcomotion@uw.edu. View news & resources for COVID-19 to learn about UW researchers developing innovations to fight coronavirus and find resources for entrepreneurs and startups to help navigate the crisis. Innovation Training IP Advising & Protection Funding & Competitions Mentorship Startups & Incubation Licensing & Agreements CoMotion Labs CoMotion Labs provides a multi-industry incubation environment for early-stage startups with a focus on UW spinoffs. Learn More Student opportunities & resources Many resources are available for students across the UW innovation ecosystem including training and education, competitions, internships, and fellowships. Learn More Announcements I-Corps program awards $33,000 to winning teams I-Corps program awards $33,000 to winning teams The summer ’21 cohort included 40 project teams representing 11 institutions. Learn more about the 13 projects that were awarded funding to continue their customer discovery process. READ MORE The Growth of Innovation A message from François Baneyx Disclosure Heat Map and Startup Handbook: the history and future of UW innovation Disclosure Heat Map and Startup Handbook: the history and future of UW innovation READ MORE Innovation Imperative Innovation Imperative Explore how the UW empowers students and researchers to learn, discover, and build solutions to tomorrow’s challenges. LEARN MORE Support Innovation Support Innovation Help University of Washington innovators achieve the greatest impact from their ideas and discoveries by supporting the CoMotion Innovation Gap Fund. MAKE A GIFT Connect with CoMotion Stay up to date with our latest news Blog / Newsletter CoMotion Fast Facts #1 Most innovative public university in the world Reuters Top 100: The World's Most Innovative Universities - 2019 #7 Best University for Technology Transfer Milken Institute’s Concept to Commercialization: The Best Universities for Technology Transfer #2 In U.S. for number of licenses granted by a university AUTM, 2019 $15B UW’s annual economic impact on the state of Washington University of Washington Economic Impact Report $7.9B Total amount of funding raised by CoMotion spinoffs since 1990 CoMotion, July 2021 104 Active UW spinoffs in Washington State CoMotion, July 2021 1,029 # employees in active UW spinoffs in Washington State CoMotion, July 2021 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket CoMotion Privacy Policy Privacy Terms © 2021 University of Washington | Seattle, WA We use cookies to improve the experience of visitors to the CoMotion website. If you continue to use this site, we assume that you accept this. OkPrivacy policy