Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Student Complaint Information Menu Toggle Search Main navigation Home Complaint Form Review and Process Complaint Tracking Exceptions Formal Complaint Process for Students Student Complaints Iowa State University is committed to treating all students fairly. University policies that apply to students are in the University Policy Library. Academic policies are included in the University Catalog. There are policies within individual departments (e.g. Department of Residence policies) that are located on department websites. When a student has a problem on campus or feels they have been treated unfairly, the student should first try to resolve the issue with the faculty/staff member or department. Many issues can be resolved if a student makes an appointment with a faculty or staff member and communicates their concerns. Filing a Formal Complaint If the student is not happy after working to resolve the complaint, the student may use this website to file a formal complaint with the appropriate Dean or Senior Vice President. Formal complaints made via this website are tagged with the Net-ID used to login. This ensures that the complaint is clearly attributable to the student. Definitions Student: an individual who is enrolled full-time or part-time, or was enrolled at the institution within the previous 12 months (when the underlying facts and circumstances of the complaint first occurred), and who has not been suspended or dismissed. Student Complaint (formal) Any written (via paper or online form) complaint made and signed by a student that is received by a Dean, Senior Vice President or the President after the complaint could not be resolved at the department level. Iowa State University Student Complaint Information Division of Student Affairs Contact Student Complaint Information 515 Morrill Rd 2350 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011 studentaffairs@iastate.edu 515-294-4420 phone Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...