Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Comparative Literature Program Comparative Literature Program Contact Us Comparative.Literature@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search How to Apply This is our website information: https://graduate.dartmouth.edu/ COVID-19 Response The Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies realizes the impact COVID-19 has had on testing centers. Access to TOEFL and GRE testing has been limited globally, and our 2021 applicants are struggling to meet our programs admissions requirements. For our next graduate applications cycle August 1st, 2021 to July 31st, 2022, The Guarini School will be flexible as to the types of GRE and Language Proficiency tests accepted by our programs for admissions purposes. DuoLingo testing will not be accepted. We still ask that applicants attach unofficial copies of their test scores to their application if required by their prospective program. International Applicants: For TOEFL/IELTS testing requirements please visit the individual program websites for more information and waiver requirements. However, official test scores will still be required from Educational Testing Services if you are admitted. Graduate Program Director Silvia Spitta is the MA Graduate Director for 2021/2022. Deadline The deadline for the application is January 15. Please apply online : https://apply.gs.dartmouth.edu/apply/ Admissions Requirements A strong undergraduate record in a major in any humanities field Fluent reading, writing, and speaking knowledge of one foreign language Minimum of beginning training in a second foreign language Essay outlining why you want to do graduate work in this field and your plans for your time at Dartmouth A writing sample (a scholarly essay or excerpt of an essay of about 10 - 15 typed double spaced pages) Official transcript(s) of all college or graduate-level credits Complete application (including three letters of recommendation and a language proficiency survey for each foreign language you know) Documents Documents should be sent to: Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Dartmouth College Anonymous Hall 64 College Street, Suite 6062, Room 102 Hanover, NH 03755 Guarini Email: Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.edu Financial Support The Program awards all accepted student with a full tuition waiver and a stipend to cover majority of living expenses for nine and a half months. Stipends will be offered automatically upon admission (unless the admitted student secures external funding, such as a Fulbright fellowship or similar). No additional application is required. As part of their MA, students work for one term as a teaching assistant (TA) in a lecture course. Typically, the TA works for ten hours a week and is in charge of a discussion section, and to hold some office hours, although this may vary. Many of our graduate students are placed with the introductory course COLT 01: Read the World in the fall term. Otherwise, placement is facilitated by the Director of Graduate Studies and may be available in humanities departments or in other relevant units. Frequently Asked Questions What is Dartmouth College's Institutional code? For the application process the code number is: 3351 What is the application fee? There is no application fee. Do I need to take the TOEFL? Is English your native language? Have you attended another institution, for at least a year, where English was the language of instruction? We accept at-home version of TOEFL We do not accept Duo-Lingo If you can answer 'yes' to either of the questions above, then you are NOT required to submit language test scores. However, you may still submit your self-reported scores if you would like the application committee to take them into consideration. If you answered 'no' to both of the questions above, you are required to submit your self-reported test scores for either the TOEFL or IELTS. Why is my application showing as "incomplete" or "not received"? If you have uploaded copies of your transcripts, entered all required test scores and your letters of recommendation have been submitted, your application is complete. Your language proficiency form will be uploaded internally at Dartmouth. Can my writing sample be in a language other than English? The MA essay must be submitted in the English language. Should you be very eager to submit something in a language other than English, please write to the current graduate director. Does the stipend cover the cost of living? No, you need approximately $5000 more to cover the cost of living for 9.5 months. I did not upload my transcript. What do I do? If you have a pdf of your transcript, please email it to Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.edu and it will be uploaded to your application as "received-unofficial". If you had an official transcript sent directly to the Guarini School, we will upload it to your application as soon as possible. What address should official transcripts be sent to? (Remember, there is no need to send official transcripts unless you are offered admission) Documents should be sent to: Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Dartmouth College Anonymous Hall 64 College Street, Suite 6062, Room 102 Hanover, NH 03755 Guarini Email: Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.edu I need to update my personal essay or my CV. How can I do that? If the submission deadline for the program you are applying to has not passed, please email a pdf of your updated document to Graduate.and.Advanced.Studies@dartmouth.edu and it will be uploaded to replace the previous version. How many essays do I need to submit? Two documents, one proposal of study and one writing sample. Outline why you want to do graduate work in this field and what are your plans for your time at Dartmouth. IE) What courses do you plan to take? Which professors are you planning to work with? On what topic do you plan to write your MA Essay? A writing sample (a scholarly essay or excerpt of an essay of about 10 - 15 typed double spaced pages) Further Information If you need further information contact: Liz at comparative.literature@dartmouth.edu Overview About the Program How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Graduate Application About Dartmouth Graduate Studies Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Comparative Literature Program Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback