Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Comparative Literature Program Comparative Literature Program Contact Us Comparative.Literature@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Course Descriptions COLT 1 Read the World Do you know how to read? Faces. Words. Pictures. Bodies. Games. Books. People. What are you really doing when you read the world? This course teaches comparative methods designed to confront the (mis)understandings and (mis)translations that constitute reading across the world's languages, locations, cultures, historical periods, and expressive forms. Classwork consists of hands-on exercises that engage ancient and modern myths and materials drawn from various media: text, movies, video games, anime, and digital arts. Distributive: LIT or INT; WCult: CI COLT 7 First Year Seminars Consult special listings COLT 10.23 Odyssey and Odyssean Spinoffs The Odyssey and Odyssean Spin-Offs This course is organized around the subject of traveling and homecoming. We will read the epic attributed to "Homer"; Joyce's Ulysses, Wolf's Cassandra, and Walcott's Omeros, in additional to excerpts from Dante's Inferno and from Kazantzakis's The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel; and poems by Tennyson, Cavafy, Pound, and Seferis. Questions we will ask of this material include: Is there such a thing as a universal theme? How might genre, author's gender, culture, or historical period inflect a particular theme? What criteria have been used in specific periods to censor a work or to proclaim it a "classic"? What criteria are used by our culture and by us as individuals to evaluate the worth of a piece of writing? Are there works that every educated person should read? If so, who should decide? If not, what bases for discussion might there be other than common texts? Skills that we will be working on include close reading, close textual analysis in written form, and comparative analysis COLT 10.24 Family Matters This is a course on contemporary film focused on the boundaries of "family." The course studies how "classic" films in different cultural contexts expose the ways the concept of family is deeply rooted in societal norms regarding gender roles, gender identity, race, and class configurations and how these intersect with normative configurations of love and care (and their opposites). These earlier films will serve as our starting point for critiquing societal values and traditions that can very often become oppressive and violent. Students will compare earlier filmmaking to more experimental and contemporary films that turn the concept of the traditional family structure on its head. These films will demonstrate a wider range of emotional territories, of alternative understandings of identity (queerness and trans-identity), and to thinking about care outside of the patriarchal family structure and more in terms of community. What kinds of new families do these films reveal? COLT 19.01 Translation: Theory and Practice Translation is both a basic and highly complicated aspect of our engagement with literature. We often take it for granted; yet the idea of meanings "lost in translation" is commonplace. In this course we work intensively on the craft of translation while exploring its practical, cultural and philosophical implications through readings in theoretical and literary texts. All students will complete a variety of translation exercises, and a substantial final project, in their chosen language. Cross Listed Courses: CLST 40 only when Classical material is covered. Prerequisites:Good reading knowledge of a foreign language (usually equivalent to fulfilling the Dartmouth language requirement). Students unsure of their linguistic preparation should consult the instructor. Distributive: LIT or INT; WCult: W COLT 40.01 History of the Book (Identical to ENGL 54.15). This course examines the book as a material and cultural object. We’ll consider various practical and theoretical models for understanding the book form and investigating the materials, technologies, institutions, and practices of its production, dissemination, and reception. We’ll focus primarily on the printed book in Western Europe and North America, but we’ll also discuss the emergence of the codex (book), medieval manuscript books, twentieth and twenty-first century artist’s books and the challenges posed by digitality to the book form. The readings for the course will be balanced by frequent use of exemplars drawn from Rauner Library and practical experience setting type in the Book Arts workshop. Distributive: LIT; WCult: W COLT 49.07: Living in the City:INTERSECTIONAL PERFORMANCES IN URBAN SPACE How do fictional characters present versions of their identities before others, especially within complex urban landscapes? How does living in cities like Paris, New York, Tokyo, Mexico City, and Shanghai influence one's conception of who one is? This course will examine performances of gender, sexuality, class, and ethnicity in diverse cultural contexts as they are represented in literature, film, and other media. Works by Baudelaire, Benjamin, Butler, Gary, Colette, Cuarón, Varda, Wong Kar Wai, Murata, Baldwin, Almodóvar, and others COLT 49.06 Multilingualism and its Others “Multilingualism” and “monolingualism” are notions that appear clear-cut, uncontested, and normative. But are they? In this course, we will examine the rise (and fall) of multilingualism and its others—especially monolingualism—to sharpen our understanding of these terms’ use and implications. Where and when did they emerge historically? Whom do they benefit or harm socially? What do they mean theoretically? What challenges to they pose to writing, translation, the global traffic of texts, and language-learning advocacy? Readings will draw on several disciplines, with research projects reflecting each student’s investment in the topic. Distribute: SOC COLT 51.01 Masterpieces of African Literature (Identical to AAAS 51 and ENGL 53.16). This course is designed to provide students with a specific and global view of the diversity of literatures from the African continent. We will read texts written in English or translated from French, Portuguese, Arabic and African languages. Through novels, short stories, poetry, and drama, we will explore such topics as the colonial encounter, the conflict between tradition and modernity, the negotiation of African identities, post-independence disillusion, gender issues, apartheid and post-apartheid. In discussing this variety of literatures from a comparative context, we will assess the similarities and the differences apparent in the cultures and historical contexts from which they emerge. Readings include Chinua Achebe's Things Fall Apart, Naguib Mahfouz's Midaq Alley, Calixthe Beyala's The Sun Hath Looked Upon Me, Camara Laye's The African Child, and Luandino Vieira's Luanda. Cross Listed Courses: AAAS 51, ENGL 53.16 Distributive: LIT or INT; WCult: NW COLT 51.03 The African Political Novel This course examines the relationship between politics and the novel in Africa. I have selected novels from different parts of Africa. We will approach the selected novels as instruments of political interest and products of political contexts. We will then proceed to put these novels in a triangular conversation with political theorists of Africa and the political philosophies of African leaders Topics include democracy and governance, clientelism and patrimonialism, failed states, gender, and grassroots activism. COLT 57.05 Migration Stories With over 50 million displaced people today, migration is one of the most compelling problems of our time. Filmic and literary representations of migration focus on borders, different types of migrants, and their border crossing experiences. We will study migration from Latin America to the U.S.; from Africa and Eastern Europe to Western Europe; and internal migration within these countries. We will also analyze how Hollywood cinema itself creates images and values that drive migration. Distributive:Int COLT 72.01 Global Literary Theory Comparative Literature entails conscious engagements with theories of literature, language, and culture from throughout the world. This course ranges across some of the ideas that have been influential in shaping scholarly questions in a variety of languages. It also addresses the global dimensions of theory: rhetorics and ethics of comparison, world literature, and indigenous knowledges. Recommended for Juniors and Seniors in any area of literary and cultural studies; required for majors in Comparative Literature. Distributive: LIT; CI COLT 79 Independent Study A tutorial course designed by the student with the assistance of a member of the Comparative Literature faculty who is willing to supervise it. Offers the student an opportunity to pursue a subject of special interest through a distinctive program of readings and reports. During the term prior to the course, applicants must submit a course outline to the Chair for written approval. COLT 80 Advanced Seminar: Special Topics COLT 85 Senior Seminar in Research and Methodology COLT 87 Thesis Tutorial Permission of the Chair is required. About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Comparative Literature Program Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback