Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Comparative Literature Program Comparative Literature Program Contact Us Comparative.Literature@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search About the Program Courses Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Share Major Options Comparative Literature is an interdisciplinary major for students wishing to work in more than one language, literature, and culture. Courses foster the study of relationships between specific literary and cultural traditions as well as other areas of knowledge -- such as the visual arts, the sciences, philosophy, history, government, economics, religion, geography, anthropology, and music. COLT Major The major is administered by the Comparative Literature Steering Committee. Students design their major plan in consultation with an advisor and the Chair, and must fill out an application form, available on the COLT website, describing their major, as well as the online declaration on DartWorks. All applications to the major must be approved by the Steering Committee. Major cards can be signed only by the Chair. Students interested in becoming majors should consult the Chair well in advance of their intended declaration of a major. Prerequisite for the major: any from among the COLT 10's. Required courses: any from among the COLT 72's, COLT 85, and, for honors majors writing a thesis only, COLT 87. COLT 85 (Senior Seminar) is required to fulfill the culminating experience requirement for students who do not meet the honor requirements, and COLT 85 and COLT 87 (Thesis Tutorial) for students meeting honors requirements. Major Requirements: Students have two options for structuring their additional eight courses: A. Comparative study of literature and culture in two languages. This typically includes 2-4 Comparative Literature courses above COLT10, fluency in one language (3-4 upper-level courses, normally not English), and competence in a second language (1-2 upper level courses). When filling out the major forms any attachments please upload them as a separate document. Option A Worksheet B. Comparative study of literature and culture in one language (normally not English) and one other non-literary discipline (e.g. music, film, art, history, geography, physics, etc.). This typically includes 2-4 Comparative Literature courses above COLT10, fluency in one language (3-4 upper-level courses), and substantive preparation in a non-literary discipline (3-4 upper level courses). Option B Worksheet Option B Worksheet Honors Program Major Options Students who wish to pursue serious independent research are invited to apply for Honors in Comparative Literature. Eligibility: Junior standing; 3.3 GPA in the major; satisfy the minimum College requirements for Honors. Application: Includes a research proposal approved by two supporting faculty members who agree to advise the project. Application is normally made at the end of junior year, with a revised research plan submitted at the beginning of senior year. Honors Thesis Timeline Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Comparative Literature Program Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback