Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Comparative Literature Program Comparative Literature Program Contact Us Comparative.Literature@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Ayo A. Coly Academic Appointments Professor, Comparative Literature & African and African American Studies Chair, Program in African & African American Studies Research Associate, The University of Johannesburg Connect with Us Twitter Contact Ayo.A.Coly@Dartmouth.edu XXXX 216 Reed Hall, Comparative Literature; 200 Choate House, African and African American Studies HB 6051 Department(s) Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, African and African American Studies, Comparative Literature Education Ph.D. Pennsylvania State University Areas of Expertise Gender and Sexuality in African contexts /African literatures /Africa in theory /Discourses about Africa Selected Publications Postcolonial Hauntologies: African Women's Discourses of the Female Body. (University of Nebraska Press, 2019.) The Pull of Postcolonial Nationhood: Gender, Migration, and the Claims of Postcolonial Nationhood in Francophone African Literatures. (Lexington Books, 2010) Homophobic Africa?, editor; special issue of African Studies Review, special issue 56.2 (2013) "He who Sows Colonization Will Reap Immigration: Some Insights from the New Migritude." The Minnesota Review 94 (Spring 2020) “Alain Mabanckou and the Category of World Literature.” Research in African Literatures 51.3 (forthcoming, Fall 2020) "Conceptualizing Medical Humanities Programs in Low-Resource Settings in Africa." with Quentin Eichabaum and al. Academic Medicine, Vol. 94, No. 8 / August 2019. “The Invention of the Homosexual: How Homophobia became a Political Strategy in Senegal.” Gender and Sexuality in Senegal. Eds. M’Baye Babacar and Besi Muhonja. Lexington Books, 2019. 27-52. “Carmen Goes Postcolonial, Carmen Goes Queer: Thinking the Postcolonial as Queer.” Culture, Theory and Critique 57.3 (2016): 391-407 “Un/Clothing African Womanhood: Colonial Statements and Postcolonial Discourses of the African Female Body." The Journal of Contemporary African Studies 33.1 (2015): 12-26. "Afropean Masculinities as Bricolage.” Francophone Afropean Literatures. Eds Nicki Hitchcott and Dominic Thomas. Liverpool: University of Liverpool Press, 2014. 155-170. "Homophobic Africa?” African Studies Review 56.2 (2013): 21-32. “A Pedagogy of the Black Female Body: Angèle Essamba's Black Female Nudes.” Third Text 24.6 (2010): 653-664. “Housing and Homing the Black Female Body in France: Calixthe Beyala and the Legacy of Sarah Baartman and Josephine Baker.” Black Womanhood: Icons, Images and Ideologies of the African Body. University of Washington Press, 2008. 259-278. The Cultures and Letters of the Black Diaspora, editor with Ivy G. Wilson; special issue of Callaoo 30.2 (2007) “Black is the Color of the Cosmos or Callaloo and The Cultures of the Diaspora Now,” with Ivy G. Wilson; Callaloo 30.2 (2007): 415-419 “Male Wives, Female Husbands: Immigration, Gender and Home.” Canadian Review of Comparative Literature 32.3-4 (2005): 325-342. “Court Poet and Wild Child: Two Readings of Calixthe Beyala’s Les Honneurs perdus” Nottingham French Studies 43.3 (2004): 15-27. “Neither Here Nor There: Calixthe Beyala’s Collapsing Homes.” Research in African Literatures 33.2 (2002): 34-45. “Autobiography or Autojustification: Re-reading Bugul’s Le baobab fou.” The Literary Griot 11.2 (1999): 56-69. + View more Works In Progress African Literature from Above Meets World Literature from Below (book on World Literature and Congolese/French writer Alain Mabanckou) The Arts of Gender Parity: Namibia, Rwanda, Senegal (book) Postcolonial Hauntologies PreviousNext Courses AAAS 40: Gender Identities and Politics in Africa AAAS 51/COLT 51: Masterpieces of African Literature AAAS 55: African Cinema AAAS 67/COLT67: Colonial and Postcolonial Masculinities COLT 73: Violence COLT 7/AAS&: Colonial and Postcolonial Dialogues COLT 10: Border Crossings + View more Related Links Healing is Not Grieving: We Must Not Move Forward After Charleston When Charlie Is Not French #BernieSoBlack in the Context of 'Confederate Flag Down, Rainbow Flag Up' Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Comparative Literature Program Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback