Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Comparative Literature Program Comparative Literature Program Contact Us Comparative.Literature@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Share Current MA Students PreviousNext Tom Abi Samra I am student of Arabic literature of all periods, with an emphasis on the early modern (15th–18th centuries). My research seeks to identify and theorize an early modern aesthetics that predates the colonization of the Arab world, which began in 1798. To do so, I work and think transregionally—either by working comparatively between early modern French, English, and Arabic sources, or by working with Arabic sources that themselves think about mobility and cultural encounters. My secondary interests include classical Arabic literary theory, French poststructuralist thought (esp. genre theory and deconstruction), and theories of modernity (incl. the Frankfurt school). Mari Aida My academic interests include contemporary literature, media studies, and queer studies, and a recent addition to this list has been migration studies, which I have been learning through an elective course here at Dartmouth. As a nonbinary person who has spent the most part of their life wedged between Japan and the US, these interests come from a personal desire to figure out what to make of the past 22 years of my life (and perhaps the next couple of years to come). Hobbies include drawing and cooking. My resolution for the 2021-2022 academic year is to improve my posture and make more eye contact with people. Aidan Keys I am a 2019 graduate of Howard University, where I majored in English and Spanish. Here at Dartmouth I hope to study pan-Africanist poetry of black women in the Americas, focussing on literature in English, Spanish, and Portuguese. I am so excited to be part of this community. Sophie Labenski I am from Berlin, Germany and study in 2 MA programs there. My focus is on English and German literature, specifically the fantastic. I work across different media and theories, but I have most fun exploring religion, racism, and posthumanity, as well as hybridity within the fantastic. Tala Majzoub I'm Tala Majzoub, and I am a graduate student in the Comparative Literature Program. I have a BA in English Literature, a minor in Media and Communications, and a minor in Translation Studies from the American University of Beirut (AUB). My research interests include modern literature and culture, postcolonial theory and literature, media studies and aesthetics. I am particularly intrigued by the emergence of alternative media landscapes, and by the practice of treating different media technologies like literary texts. I particularly dislike cold weathers, and I like wearing colorful socks. Andrew Meraz I study Russian and French literature and am interested in psychoanalytic theory, among other things. I am high school drop out and the first in my family to earn a college degree. Emily Oliveira I'm originally from New Jersey, about one hour away from NYC. I studied Comparative Literature at Harvard, where I wrote a thesis about the autobiography of Salvador Dalí. Some of my interests include literature & philosophy, life writing, intermediality, and Surrealism. For the past 3 years, I worked in Hollywood as an assistant to a television agent who represented writers of TV & film. Fanrui Shao I intend to focus on marital or romantic promises in The Canterbury Tales from perspectives of gender studies and emotion/affect theories Yipu Su My academic interests are slavery, critical racial studies, and gender studies. Currently I focus on female abolitionists in nineteenth-century America of different races. I am from southwestern China, 2200 meters above sea level. I am a Bai, an ethic minority in China. Tutku Vatansever Academically, I am interested in urban studies and early 20th century novels. I love the fine arts, and I paint in oils and digitally. Victoria Wirtz I'm a graduate student of English Studies with a focus on literature at Freie Universitaet Berlin. I would like to specialize in trauma studies and narrative of mental illness in the further course of my academic career, including works in English, German & French. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Comparative Literature Program Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback