Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Comparative Literature Program Comparative Literature Program Contact Us Comparative.Literature@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Antonio Gómez López-Quiñones Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Spanish and Comparative Literature Antonio Gómez L-Quiñones serves on the editorial board of Hispanic Issues (Vanderbilt University Press and University of Minnesota Press), the series "Theory/Criticism" (University of Granada Press), and several academic journals. He is also the recipient of the Dartmouth Student Assembly's Excellence Award (Spring 2009), the John M. Manley Huntington Award (2011) and the New Directions in the Humanities Scholarship (2018). He is a member of the international research group "New Trends in Hermeneutics." His current book project examines the reception of Antonio Gramsci's cultural and political thought in Spain. 2022 Winter Office Hours: By appt. + View more Contact Antonio.Gomez@Dartmouth.edu 313 Dartmouth Hall HB 6072 Department(s) Spanish and Portuguese, Comparative Literature Education Ph.D. Universidad de Granada, Spain (2003) Ph.D. University of Colorado at Boulder (2005) Areas of Expertise Memory Studies (Spanish Civil War) /European Marxism /Philosophy and Literature /Cultural Aspects of the Neoliberal Crisis /Aesthetics (the Sublime) /Modern Spanish Literature and Film Selected Publications "15M/Melancolía." eHumanistas (2022): Forthcoming. "Bajo la esfinge de Mammon: El sentido trágico del diálogo entre cristianos y comunistas." Un siglo de comunismo en España (II). Ed. Francisco Erice. Madrid: Akal, 2022. 461-492. "Trauma, pasado y presente: sobre la gestión memorialística de la Guerra Civil española." Novecento Transnazionale. Letterature, Arti e Culture 6.1 (2022): Forthcoming. "The Gramscian Moment of the Spanish Crisis." Boundary 2 48.2 (2021): 55-86. “Transatlantic Film Studies in the Age of Neoliberalism: Towards a Post-National Cinema?.” Transatlantic Studies: Latin America, Iberia, and Africa. Eds. Sebastiaan Faber, Cecilia Enjuto-Rangel, Robert Newcomb and Pedro García-Caro. Liverpool: Liverpool University Press, 2020. 299-312. "¿Interpretación sin transformación? Karl Korsch y el momento no-dialéctico de la dialéctica." La Lupa Roja. Ensayos sobre hermenéutica y marxismo. Buenos Aires: TESEO, 2019. 75-123. "¿Literatura sin Estado? Sobre las aporías del régimen estético en la modernidad capitalista." Tropelías. Revista de Teoría de la Literatura y Literatura Comparada 4 (2018): 9-32. “En el laberinto populista. Algunas claves teóricas e históricas.” Arizona Journal of Hispanic Cultural Studies.Iberian Populisms 21 (2017): 105-135. "Sin perpetradores: crisis económica, publicidad televisiva y la ontología social del azar.” Perpetradores y memoria democrática en España. Eds. Ana Luengo y Katherine Stafford. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press [HIOL], 2017. 109-130. “Cristianismo, marxismo y la teología trágica de la Transición (Al compás de Alfonso Comín).” Cruzar la línea roja. Acercamientos al imaginario comunista ibérico (1930-2015). Madrid and Frankfurt am Main: Vervuert / Iberoamericana, 2017. 279-31. “La precariedad de la precariedad y el discreto encanto de la culpa política.” Imaginación hipotecada. Aportaciones al debate sobre la precariedad del presente. Madrid: Editorial Ecologistas en Acción, 2016. 133-46. "El dilema del modernismo literario-filosófico: Autonomía y hermenéutica en Robert Pippin.” Ámbitos. Revista de Estudios de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades 35 (2016): 47-59. "Nostalgia and/as Loose Causality in Belle Époqueand La lengua de las mariposas.” International Journal of Iberian Studies 27.2-3 (2014): 105-120. “Mendoza/Wittgenstein: ¿De qué hablamos cuando hablamos de un extraterrestre?”. Anales de Literatura Española Contemporánea 39.1 (2014): 145-174. “Contra Sartre: el marxismo estructuralista de López Aranguren y los límites de la Transición." Revista Hispánica Moderna 67.1 (2014): 17-36. “A Secret Agreement: The Historical Memory Debate and the Limits of Recognition.” Historical Memory and its Discontent. Eds. Luis Martín Estudillo and Nicholas Spadaccini. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press [HIOL], 2013. 87-116. "Aviso para navegantes: La crítica del capitalismo y sus im/posibilidades (Notas para un mapa conceptual de la crisis de 2008).” Revista de ALCES XXI. Journal of Contemporary Spanish Film & Literature 1 (2013): 68-145. “La conquista y el problema de la modernidad hispánica. Dos discursos sobre el pasado (post)colonial español.” Anales de Literatura Española Contemporánea 36.1 (2011): 101-132. “Towards a Pragmatic Version of Memory: What Could the Spanish Civil War Mean to Contemporary Spain?.” Unearthing Franco’s Legacy: Mass Graves and the Recuperation of Historical Memory in Spain. Eds. Carlos Jerez-Farrán and Samuel Amago. Notre Dame: Notre Dame University Press, 2010. 208-220. “Beyond Words: The National Sublime and the Spanish War of Independence in El secreto del rey cautivo and Un día de cólera.” Journal of Spanish Cultural Studies 11.2 (2010): 131-151. "Políticas de lo sublime en Burke, Kant y Lyotard." Afinidades. Revista de Literatura y Pensamiento 2 (2009): 120-131. "Del diálogo y sus límites en La pelota alta: La piel contra la piedra." Hispanic Research Journal 10.2 (2009): 141-156. + View more Works In Progress Iberian Gramsci: From the Anti-Francoist Resistance to the New Populist Movements. "Living Philology: Towards a Emancipatory Pedagogy in the Age of Late-Capitalist Spectatorship" "El Rey y su familia (o el problema de la abstracción real)" "Leyenda y pragmática del pueblo. A propósito de Libre te quiero de Basilio Martín Patino" Books PreviousNext Courses COLT 70: Second Skin: Reflections on Capitalism in Literature, Film and Philosophy COLT 73: Aesthetics: Modern Discourses on Art, Beauty and Sensual Experience COLT 100: Literary, Cultural, and Political Theory SPAN 40: The Rhetorical Zoo: Aesthetic Movements and the Representation of Animals in 20th Century Spain SPAN 65: Gallery of Treasures and Horrors: A Century of Images in Spain SPAN 73: Old World/New World: Tradition and Change in Contemporary Latin American Cultures SPAN 80: Arguendo: A Brief History of Modern Iberian Thought SPAN 80: A World on Sale: Spanish TV Advertisement and the Logic of Commodification SPAN 55: Spanish Leviathan: Literature and State Violence from 1812 to 2012 + View more Related Links La imaginación hipotecada - El Confidencial Cruzar la línea roja. Hacia una arqueología del imaginario comunista ibérico (1930-2017) Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Comparative Literature Program Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback