Skip to Main Content Brown University Comparative Literature Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us About Us Contact Office Hours Faculty Meet our Faculty By Language By Period Undergraduate Program About the Undergraduate Program Info for Prospective Concentrators Honors Program Career Forum Department Undergraduate Group Graduate Program About the Graduate Program Current Students Program/Handbooks Reading Lists Translation Studies Certificate Courses Current Courses Previous Courses News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events The Andrea Rosenthal Memorial Lecture The Reinhard Kuhn Memorial Lecture Search Comparative Literature Date March 23, 2022 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Ben Connor (class of 2022) Awarded Fulbright Scholarship to France Comparative Literature graduating senior, Benjamin Connor, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to France for 2022-2023. Comparative Literature graduating senior, Benjamin Connor, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to France for 2022-2023. Implemented in 1946, Congress created the Fulbright Program as a way to develop the educational and cultural exchange between scholars in the U.S. and other countries around the world. Students may apply for a Research Grant, which supports projects and research in a plethora of subjects, or a Teaching Assistantship, which provides the opportunity for recipients to teach English and US culture from elementary to university levels. Ben is concentrating in Comp Lit’s Literary Translation track, focusing on French and English. He is currently preparing an honors thesis translating Les Aventures de Tom Sawyer, written by Julien Salvia and Ludovic-Alexandre Vida, a French musical comedy adaptation of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. Along with his Comp Lit degree, Ben will also graduate this May with a degree in French and Francophone Studies. About his upcoming trip, Ben says, “I've never been to France, even though I've been studying the language since preschool! So, it's a long overdue trip to a country that I've studied and loved for a long time.” You can find more information about Brown’s Fulbright Student Fellowship on the Fellowships@Brown page. Congratulations Ben, and good luck next year! Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us About Us Contact Office Hours Faculty Meet our Faculty By Language By Period Undergraduate Program About the Undergraduate Program Info for Prospective Concentrators Honors Program Career Forum Department Undergraduate Group Graduate Program About the Graduate Program Current Students Program/Handbooks Reading Lists Translation Studies Certificate Courses Current Courses Previous Courses News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events The Andrea Rosenthal Memorial Lecture The Reinhard Kuhn Memorial Lecture This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Ben Connor (class of 2022) Awarded Fulbright Scholarship to France Open details for Ben Connor (class of 2022) Awarded Fulbright Scholarship to France Bookmark this Page