Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Comparative Literature Program Comparative Literature Program Contact Us Comparative.Literature@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search About the Program Courses Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Comparative Literature Program (ORC) Share How to Apply How to Apply Major plans must be submitted to the Registrar's office by the end of the fifth term in residence or before the tenth day of the following term (review the DartWorks guide). Since Comparative Literature requires an application that must be approved by the Steering Committee, Comparative Literature majors need to design their major well in advance of this deadline. To apply, students must complete the Program's application form and outline a coherent program of study. Then submit to Lawrence Kritzman, chair. To Think About When applying to the Major, you should think about the literature courses you have taken, and determine what it is that has interested you most. Think about several possible areas of interest around which you might focus your major and make a list of courses that fit into each of them. Think about the different major options and try to determine which might suit you best. Think especially about your level of linguistic competence, and about which language you need to strengthen before senior year. Consider whether you would like to go on a foreign study program. As you look through the ORC, remember to look at a number of different departments and programs: Comparative Literature, the department of your primary (and secondary) language or of your "other discipline," History, and other interdisciplinary programs. Any course can count if you can make a case for including it in your focus. Try to coordinate these lists with your Dartmouth plan. You can do this alone or in consultation with a professor whom you know in the Program. Meet with the Chair Meet with the Chair to discuss your area of interest and to consult about courses which might fit into your schedule. This is also the time to choose an advisor among the Program's faculty and to discuss your plans with him/her. Your major advisor does not need to be your thesis advisor. Complete the application Complete the application (found below) in consultation with your major advisor and the Chair. An application is available below. Please download the application and TYPE in your information. The most important section of the application is the outline of your course of study. It is here that you articulate your area of interest as specifically as you can and that you demonstrate how different courses will enable you to explore it. Do not hesitate to mention authors you hope to study, genres and themes you wish to analyze. This is not a thesis proposal - we assume that you have a great deal of reading to do before you select a thesis topic. We do, however, want to know how your program coheres and what general texts or questions have brought you to it. Option A Worksheet Option B Worksheet Get Approval Your major advisor must approve your application with his/her signature. Send your completed major applications to the chair of Comparative Literature Program office and the administrator, Liz Cassell by the 4th Friday of the term. The Steering Committee will convene to review your application. Applications must be approved by the Steering Committee before the major plan is approved by the Chair. The Steering Committee may ask that you rewrite your plan of study with more clarity or focus, or might suggest some changes in your course outline. This is part of the application process. Once the application has been approved by the Steering Committee, the Chair will sign your major plan. If you wish to change any of the courses on your major plan, you may do so with the approval of the Chair. *Important: If you change a course, you must re-file your major plan with the Registrar via DartWorks. Activity Involvement During the end of sophomore and during junior year, you can be involved in program activities by attending receptions, colloquia and lectures. During winter term, you will be encouraged to attend the senior thesis/paper presentations and at the end of the spring term you will be invited to the senior luncheon. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Comparative Literature Program Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback