Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Comparative Literature Program Comparative Literature Program Contact Us Comparative.Literature@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Michelle R. Warren Academic Appointments Senior Advisor for Faculty Development, Diversity, and Inclusion – Arts and Sciences Professor of Comparative Literature Director, Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship Connect with Us Twitter Research: My motto is: “The Middle Ages Aren’t Old.” I am a scholar of medieval Europe by training, firmly grounded in contemporary global concerns. I study how the past shapes the present and how the present shapes our views of the past. My projects typically connect small things to big ideas: a single word choice to ethnic nationalism, an epigraph to colonial memory, a reader’s note in a book to social power relations. My most recent project has been supported by the Guggenheim Foundation and the American Council of Learned Societies. Teaching: My favorite recent courses are Race in the Middle Ages, Global Medievalism, and Global Literary Theory. Students are often unsure what to expect when they sign up for one of my classes: they come with some curiosity and leave with even more. My pedagogy is informed by the principles of Intergroup Dialogue, which distinguishes dialogue from discussion and debate. In my classes, students learn how these principles make for both effective scholarly writing and strong social relations. All of my courses include research, so that students learn how to ask meaningful questions that can lead to new knowledge. Mentoring: In Comparative Literature, I work with students interested in translation, postcolonial studies, digital humanities, critical theory, and all aspects of medieval literature. In the Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship Program, I work with students committed to addressing racial underrepresentation in higher education. My MMUF advisees come from the humanities, social sciences, sciences, and interdisciplinary programs; they prepare to earn PhDs and become professors. As a Senior Fellow with the Society of Fellows, I worked with postdoctoral fellows on a wide variety of early career issues. Currently, as Senior Advisor in the Dean of Faculty Office in Arts and Sciences, I am engaged with campus-wide efforts to increase diversity, improve inclusivity, achieve equity, and foster an anti-racist culture. + View more View Curriculum Vitae Personal Website Contact Michelle.R.Warren@Dartmouth.edu 603-646-6498 211 Reed Hall HB 6051 Department(s) Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, Comparative Literature, Medieval and Renaissance Studies Education Ph.D. Stanford University (1993) M.A. Stanford University (1991) B.A. University of California - Berkeley (1988) Areas of Expertise medieval studies /translation studies /postcolonial studies /digital humanities and social engagement /racial diversity in higher education Selected Publications Holy Digital Grail: A Medieval Book on the Internet (Stanford University Press, 2022), “Remix the Medieval Manuscript: Experiments in Digital Infrastructure.” Archive Journal (co-author with Bay Lauris ByrneSim and Laura Braunstein) (September 2018). "Chaucer and the Future of World Literature," Literature Compass 15.6 (2018), https://doi.org/10.1111/lic3.12446 “‘The Last Syllable of Modernity’: Chaucer in the Caribbean.” postmedieval 6.1 (2015): 79-93. Philology and the Mirage of Time, editor; special issue of postmedieval: a journal of medieval cultural studies, vol. 5.4 (2014). Situating the Middle English Prose Brut, editor; special issue of Digital Philology: A Journal of Medieval Cultures, vol. 3.2 (2014). Creole Medievalism: Colonial France and Joseph Bédier’s Middle Ages (University of Minnesota Press, 2011). Arts of Calculation: Quantifying Thought in Early Modern Europe, co-editor with David Glimp (Palgrave Macmillan, 2004). Postcolonial Moves: Medieval through Modern, co-editor with Patricia Clare Ingham (Palgrave Macmillan, 2003). History on the Edge: Excalibur and the Borders of Britain, 1100-1300 (University of Minnesota Press, 2000). + View more Works In Progress Remix the Mansucript: A Chronicle of Digital Experiments PreviousNext Courses Sample Course Materials and other documents Related Links Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship Comparative Literature Program Digital Humanities Medieval and Renaissance Studies Program Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Comparative Literature Program Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback