Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Compliance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Hotline Contacts Code Policies Minors ID Theft Prevention Resources Training About Us Program Statement of Ethical Conduct and Administrative Code of Conduct University Compliance You are here: Home Contacts Contacts Where should I go with a concern? For general information about Columbia University, please refer to http://www.columbia.edu or call (212) 854-1754. The first recommended resource for a clarification on a policy, regulation or law is one’s direct supervisor. If a direct supervisor cannot serve as a resource, below are other suggested resources to assist you. RESOURCE Your Supervisor DESCRIPTION The first recommended resource for a clarification on a policy, regulation or law is your direct supervisor. If a direct supervisor cannot serve as a resource, below are other suggested resources to assist you. RESOURCE Human Resources Morningside: 212-851-2888 Medical Center: 212-305-3819 www.hr.columbia.edu DESCRIPTION Human Resources provides guidance and support for staff on policies that govern employment at the University. Faculty and officers of research should refer to the Faculty Handbook or the Office of Faculty Affairs for policies relating to their appointments at the University. RESOURCE Compliance Hotline 866-627-3768 www.compliance.columbia.edu DESCRIPTION The Compliance Hotline is a confidential channel for employees to report or seek guidance on potential wrongdoing with the option to report anonymously. The University prohibits retaliation against individuals who report or seek guidance on possible ethical or compliance issues in good faith. For more information about the hotline and/or to file a report online, please refer to the University Compliance website or call the hotline directly. The full Non-Retaliation Policy can be found at policylibrary.columbia.edu. RESOURCE Billing Compliance 866-627-3768 www.cumc.columbia.edu/dept/compliance DESCRIPTION The hotline is a confidential 24-hour hotline for Medical Center patients, providers or staff to report billing concerns or related problems to the Office for Billing Compliance. RESOURCE Office of HIPAA Compliance 212-305-7315 [email protected] https://www.hipaa.cumc.columbia.edu DESCRIPTION The Office of HIPAA Compliance is responsible for administration of the Privacy Program at the medical center. The website includes HIPAA Privacy and Information Security policies, forms, regulations and links to additional resources including HIPAA training. RESOURCE Research Compliance and Training 212-851-2897 www.researchcompliance.columbia.edu DESCRIPTION The Office of Research Compliance and Training provides support for Columbia faculty and staff to help ensure compliance with the complex web of regulatory requirements that govern research and to develop programming that promotes understanding of compliance issues. RESOURCE Office of the General Counsel 212-854-4974 www.ogc.columbia.edu DESCRIPTION The Office of the General Counsel is responsible for providing a full range of legal services to the University, including: labor and employment, business matters, contract review, litigation, environmental, patents, copyright, property acquisitions, student and faculty issues, entity tax, regulatory compliance, among others. RESOURCE University Ombuds Morningside: 212-854-1234 CUMC: 212-304-7026 http://ombuds.columbia.edu DESCRIPTION The Ombuds Office is a confidential resource for any member of the Columbia community to discuss and to generate options for resolution of workplace issues, interpersonal conflict, academic concerns, bureaucratic problems, and many other issues. The Ombuds office offers in-person and phone appointments. RESOURCE Office of Faculty Affairs (Morningside) 212-854-2254 www.columbia.edu/cu/vpaa DESCRIPTION The office is responsible for administering the University’s policies and processes governing academic appointments and the statutory provisions governing faculty service, including the approval of all academic appointments on the Morningside campus; managing the University’s system of tenure reviews; working with the University Senate, maintaining fair processes in handling grievances from academic officers; assisting with the development of programs that help faculty members advance their careers; and the collection and analysis of data to assess the effectiveness of programs for faculty, officers of research, and student officers, and for identifying and exploring issues of importance to the University. RESOURCE Office of Faculty Affairs (CUMC) 212-305-5390 www.cumc.columbia.edu/faculty/faculty-affairs DESCRIPTION Faculty Affairs at CUMC provides support both for faculty and departmental administrators in administrative processes and policies for officers of instruction and of research (including post-doctoral fellows) and student officers. RESOURCE Public Safety Morningside: 212-854-5555 Medical Center: 212-305-7979 http://publicsafety.columbia.edu DESCRIPTION Any threat against persons or property should be directed immediately to Public Safety. RESOURCE Discrimination, Harassment & Gender-Based Misconduct Complaints Regarding Faculty, Staff and Third-Parties: Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action 212-854-5511 http://eoaa.columbia.edu Student Complaints: Student Conduct and Community Standards: 212-854-1717 http://sexualrespect.columbia.edu DESCRIPTION Complaints against Columbia staff, faculty and third parties connected to the University, for discrimination, discriminatory harassment and/or gender-based misconduct, including sexual assault, sexual harassment, gender-based harassment, stalking, domestic violence, dating violence and sexual exploitation are processed through the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Complaints against students for gender-based misconduct, including sexual assault, sexual harassment, gender-based harassment, stalking, domestic violence, dating violence and sexual exploitation, are processed through Student Conduct and Community Standards. This policy covers students who attend Teachers College and Columbia University. RESOURCE Protection of Minors 212-851-9636 [email protected] http://compliance.columbia.edu/minors.html DESCRIPTION The Protection of Minors website contains the University policy, contact information for more information about training, and suggestions for best practices. RESOURCE Athletics Office of Compliance 212-854-8666 www.gocolumbialions.com Go to the Athletics Homepage, Inside Athletics, select Compliance DESCRIPTION The Athletics website serves as an informational resource for all constituents of Columbia University Athletics—including its prospective and current student-athletes, coaches, faculty and staff, alumni, donors, boosters and friends—to ensure the Department and University remain in full compliance with NCAA and Ivy League rules and regulations. Report a Compliance Concern Office of University Compliance91 Claremont Ave., Suite 516 · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close