retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU TwitterFind us on Twitter Search Search About Compliance & Ethics at UT UCS Staff Hotline Policy Training Training Library Training FAQs Ethics Breadcrumb Home Compliance and Ethics Hotline Compliance and Ethics Hotline "Something happened at work that troubles me." "I'm not sure if that violates UT policy or the law?" The University of Texas at Austin cultivates remarkable achievements for the benefit of society — in teaching, research, health care, public service and beyond. Yet, at times, the university’s collective brilliance could be undermined by individual ethical lapses or uncertainty and a lack of action on how to best address a situation. If something doesn't seem lawful, is against policy, or is just not quite right, please bring attention to it. Notify departmental supervisors, other management, or use the University's Compliance and Ethics Hotline to report your concern. Reporting options: Online: www.lighthouse-services.com/austin.utexas Phone: English 877-507-7321 Español 800-216-1288 Email: compliance@austin.utexas.edu Anonymous reporting is available. UT policy prohibits retaliation against an individual who in good faith reports or provides information about concerns or suspected violations. UT takes every report we receive seriously, however, we are not a 911 or emergency service. Please contact your local emergency services if you need to report a critical situation. UT's ability to respond to your report depends on the accuracy and completeness of the information you provide. When submitting a report please be sure to include as much information as possible. Compliance and Ethics Hotline FAQs Who manages the hotline? The Compliance and Ethics Hotline is managed by a third party company called Lighthouse Services. Lighthouse Services' web reporting system is available 24/7, and is a confidential and anonymous solution for reporting illegal and unethical activities in the work place. Confidentiality when using Lighthouse Services- Lighthouse does not track visitors to this web site. You can choose to provide your name or remain anonymous. However you choose to report, you will be given a case number which you can reference later for updates on your concern or to provide further details. What happens to a concern or inquiry once I've reported it? Concerns are sent from Lighthouse Services to UT's University Compliance Services (UCS). UCS will review the concern with the hotline triage team, which consists of senior leadership from: UCS, Legal Affairs, Internal Audit, and Human Resources. The triage team will determine next steps and which designated office(s) would be the most appropriate to investigate. UCS will coordinate the forwarding and tracking of the concern, up to resolution. External Reporting Options You may also report suspected fraud, waste, and abuse to the Texas State Auditor’s Office by visiting https://sao.fraud.texas.gov/ReportFraud/. Other Resources to report or discuss concerns: Emergencies Call 911 if you or someone else is in immediate danger Report Violence, Misconduct, Harassment, or Discrimination UT provides multiple resources to hear and address concerns and inquiries Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Office - HR Options for conflict resolution that are party-driven, restorative, and focused on interest- and needs-based problem solving Office of Internal Audits If you have knowledge or suspicion of fraud, or other potential financial misconduct Office of the Dean of Students Report an incident related to student conduct and academic integrity Research Misconduct Report instances were research integrity is in question Athletics Compliance Services and Risk Management Texas Athletics - Report Issues or Concerns University Ombuds Offices Works to ensure that every voice can be heard and that every problem can receive an impartial review 1616 Guadalupe St. UTA 2.206 Austin, Texas 78701-1204 Phone: 512-232-7055 Fax: 512-232-3722 Email: compliance@austin.utexas.edu TwitterFind us on Twitter Footer menu Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) University Police (UTPD) Legal Affairs Human Resources Protect Texas Together - Information and resources related to Covid-19 UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022