Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Comparative Literature Program Comparative Literature Program Contact Us Comparative.Literature@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search About the Program Courses Major Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Share Past Theses 2021 Theodore Friedman. Witnessing and Remembrance: The Rhetoric of Loss in the Old Testament and Latin-American, Jewish Memoir Writers Julianne Mehra. An Arrangement: Music and Literature in Diderot, Rousseau, and Rameau Abigail Mihaly. The Displaced Poet: Forced Cosmopolitanism and the Reimagining of Nation in Transatlantic Exile Poetry Raam Tambe. Post Diluvial Man and the Origins of Humanitarianism 2020 Joseph Estrada. Time regained in the great war 2019 Hannah Gallen. The Question of Aesthetic Newness in Joyce and Apollinair Ji Hyun Shin. Tawada Yoko and Bae Suah Madeleine Walker. Reinventing the Wagnerian Aesthetic: the Leitmotif in Proust's À la recherche du temps perduand Musil's Der Mann ohne Eigenschten 2018 Timothy Messen. Fragments of a Babble-onion Analysis Interminable "Dora Bruder" and "Notes from the Underground" Ava Tichnor. Through Hell and High Water: The Southern Louisiana Trickster Narrative as an Ontology of Resilience 2017 Elise S. Wien. Third Night: An Original Play with Dramaturgical Analysis 2016 2015 Benjamin Randolph. Toward a Decolonial Critical Theory Gabriela Josebachvili. The Stories They Tell: Fictional Representations of the Spanish Civil War Paul C. Chang. Entering the Mind of a Genius: Yi Sang Tom Owen. Spatial Fictions: Contemporary Representations and Theorizations of Urban Space 2013 Chanon Praepipatmongkol. Insufficient Utopias: The Politics of Participatory Art from Post-1997 Thailand Krista Oehlke. Writing Art in Latin America: The Spectacular Society and Movie Stars in Cortázar and Puig Andrew Huh. Intellectual Masculinity and Masculine Intellectuals Alexis Monroe. "Abstract Painting is Abstract": A Semiotic Analysis of Abstraction in Abstract Expressionism and Pop Art 2012 Hilary C. Krutt. The Tensions of Literary Space: Janet Flanner's New York, Colette's Provinces, and the Paris They Shared Maxwell A. Moran. Hunting the Spanish Civil War: An Exploration of the "Human" and the "Animal" in Ernest Hemingway's For Whom the Bell Tolls and Carlos Saura's La Caza Madeline L. Sims. Crafting a New Political and Social History: A Study of Christine de Pizan Renee L. Phillip. The Ideal of Hybridity: Rethinking the Theory within the Context of Albert Camus, José Luandino Vieira and their Selected Works 2011 Rahul Malik. William Methwold and the Great Palaces of Europe Wallace Jones. Debilitating Dichotomies: The Fragmented Nationalist Endeavor of the Gaucho Literary Genre Cannon Biggs. Paradoxes of the Postwar Body in The Face of Another Matthew Rodriguez. On the Threshold of the Archive: The Madeleine and the Bartlett Pears Therese Korndorf. Überzähliges Dasein: Language and Being in the Poetry of Rilke and Mallarmé 2010 Alexander J. Lambrow. Revolutionary Late-Weimar Objectivity and the "State of Exception" Emily K. Kane. Unveiled Stories: Desire, Representation and Resistance in Feminist Counter-Cinema Abigail R. Alexander. Adventures in Writing: Extraordinary Voyages with E.A. Poe and J.Verne Hermanjit S. Bajwa. Into the Cave with the Marquis de Sade: From Degradation to Translation Maya C. Nathan. Nisi Vinceris: Parody and Intertextuality in Titus Andronicus 2009 Ying Cheng. Narratives of the Desiring Subject: An Analysis of Gender, Desire and Agency in Marguerite Duras' The Love and Virginia Woolf's Mrs. Dalloway Amaury Boscio Colon. Four Authors in Quest of Utopia: Cortazar, Duras, Carpentier, Perec Silvia Ferreira. Resistance from Within: Literary Negotiations of Female Identity in the Space of the Postcolonial Home Alexander Fidel. In No Unmediated Terms: History, Memory, and Representation in MAUS and W ou le Souvenir d'Enfance Andrew Gates. Being and Beauty: Mystical Experience and Poetic Self-Affirmation Kirby Liu. The Cities of St. Petersburg Annabel Seymour. The Passionate Spectator: Cinematic 'Flânerie' in Bennett Miller's The Cruise and Jean Rouch and Edgar Morin's Chronique d'un Été Marisa Taney. Utopia and Revolution Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Comparative Literature Program Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback