Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Compliance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Hotline Contacts Code Policies Minors ID Theft Prevention Resources Training About Us Program Statement of Ethical Conduct and Administrative Code of Conduct University Compliance You are here: Home Resources Resources Statement of Ethical Conduct and the Administrative Code of Conduct The Statement of Ethical Conduct and the Administrative Code of Conduct embody the University's values. The principles expressed in these core documents govern interactions at the University and promote an environment of respect that is central to its success and that of the individuals who work here. This booklet also includes expanded and updated resources sections titled "Where do I go with a concern?" and "To learn more." Protection of Minors Flyer Protection of Minors: Reporting Suspected Abuse, Assault, or Dangers to Minors We encourage you to download, print, and post this flyer in areas that have programs or activities involving minors. This flyer highlights the duty of members of the Columbia University community who interact with, supervise, chaperone, or otherwise oversee minors in University sponsored programs, activities, and/or residential facilities to report immediately suspected cases of abuse, assault or other dangers to individuals under the age of 18 and the necessary steps to report a concern. Any members of the Columbia University community may report abuse if they have reasonable suspicion that a child has been abused, assaulted or harmed. Hard copies and/or larger posters are available upon request at [email protected]. Compliance Hotline Flyer Compliance Hotline Flyer We encourage you to download, print, and post this Compliance Hotline flyer in your work area. Larger posters are available upon request at [email protected]. The Compliance Hotline is a confidential channel for employees to report or seek guidance on compliance issues. It is available to Columbia employees by the telephone (866)-627-3768 and the web with confidential report handling and the option for anonymous reporting. There is no tolerance for retaliation against those who report a compliance concern in good faith. Compliance Hotline Brochure We encourage you to review and distribute the Compliance Hotline brochure. Hard copies are available upon request at [email protected]. The Compliance Hotline brochure provides an overview of the compliance hotline; emphasizes Columbia’s Commitment to Compliance and Ethics; and provides examples of compliance concerns and resources to help resolve them. Other Resources Compliance Related Websites Athletics Compliance Billing Compliance Program Clinical Research Handbook Effort Reporting Endowment Administration Global Support Hazing Prevention Privacy Office (HIPAA) Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Medical Research with Animals P&S Department Administrator's Manual Protection of Minors Security Awareness Sexual Respect Sponsored Projects Administration Training Resources Billing Compliance Training HIPAA Compliance Training Columbia University Learning and Development Finance Division Training Research Compliance and Administration System (RASCAL) Office of Research Compliance and Training Related Resources ColumbiaDoctors, the Faculty Practice Organization at Columbia University Department of Public Safety Facilities and Operations Finance Gateway Health Services Human Resources Information Technology Internal Audit Office of the General Counsel Office of the Provost Ombuds Office International Students and Scholars (ISSO) Columbia Technology Ventures Sttudent Financial Services Read University Policies, Compliance Hotline, Training or Compliance Contacts. Office of University Compliance91 Claremont Ave., Suite 516 · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close