Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Comparative Literature Program Comparative Literature Program Contact Us Comparative.Literature@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Welcome Roopika Risam Roopika Risam will be joining Dartmouth College teaching courses in Film Studies and Comparative Literature Program fall 2022. Senior Honors Thesis Presentation Spring 2022 Ryan Ellis presented his senior thesis on May 25, 2022, Reed Hall, room 209, 2:00 pm, advisors, Eman Morsi, Jorge Quintana-Navarrete. In person and by virtual Zoom. Comparative Literature Master's Essays Presentation Eleven COLT MA Graduate Students presented their essays, May 16 & May 18, 2022, Haldeman 246, 3:30 pm. Dartmouth Journal of Comparative Literature (DJCL) is accepting submissions The Dartmouth Journal of Comparative Literature (DJCL) is accepting submissions for short-form (under 2,000 words), long-form (between 2,000 and 8,000 words), and multimedia (visual art, data visualization, etc.) pieces for publication on the DJCL website. Meridians: Feminism, Race, Transnationalism Tom Abi-Samra's translation was published in the journal Meridians. This article is in two parts. The first part provides an overview of the life of the Egyptian feminist Doria Shafik and the second part consists of translations from the Arabic of four editorials that Shafik wrote in her feminist magazine Bint al-Nīl. New Poetry From Ukraine by Iryna Shuvalova Being a Ukrainian abroad and being a Ukrainian at home today represent two different kinds of pain. Iryna Shuvalova '14, a Ukrainian poet and literature scholar, traveled from her native Kyiv to China, where she works as a college counselor, as tanks began to appear on Ukraine's borders. In the News: Yuliya Komska; A Stained Glass in Lviv The associate professor of German studies and Comparative Literature notes in the "Los Angeles Review of Books" that her father was a stained-glass artist in western Ukraine and says mourning the loss of art "is not separate from mourning for the senseless disruption and destruction of human life." Majzoub: Sudan's Democratic Transition at a Crossroads Together, protest and robust international pressure could restore Sudan's democratic transition. Article in The Dartmouth by Tala Majzoub. Come Take a Gentle Stab by Salim Barakat Tom Abi Samra reviews Come Take a Gentle Stab by Salim Barakat translated from the Arabic by Huda J. Fakhreddine and Jayson Iwen (Seagull Books, 2021) Georgina Emerson '14 on Closing Gender Gaps by Changing How We Teach Georgina Emerson, '14 Founder & CEO of Teach About Women, was interviewed on the Mission Matters Business Podcast. Recent Publications view all "The Gramscian Moment of the Spanish Crisis." boundary 2 48.3 (2021): 55–86. Antonio Gómez López-Quiñones Leaks, Hacks, and Scandals Arab Culture in the Digital Age Tarek El-Ariss Princeton University Press , December 2019 Holy Digital Grail: A Medieval Book on the Internet Michelle R. Warren Stanford University Press, 2022 Postcolonial Hauntologies: African Women's Discourses of the Female Body Ayo A. Coly University of Nebreska Press June 2019 Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Comparative Literature Program Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback