A Collaboration Between Request Information > COMPETE: Prepare. Excel. Achieve. Earn your degree from the accredited, nationally-recognized University of Memphis. Announcing a new partnership between the City of Memphis and University of Memphis: COMPETE is designed especially for City of Memphis employees looking to earn a degree and advance professionally. Dedicated Support Network Flexible & Accessible Personalized Degree Plan Enjoy access to 24/7 virtual tutoring and assistance from a program-specific admissions specialist, financial specialist, a designated academic advisor and a team of student advocates. UofM offers a wide variety of program options to match your career goals, including fully-online degrees for maximum flexibility to fit your busy schedule. Whether you need to earn your high school equivalency or already have some college experience, your UofM Global Advocate will help you create the best game plan for earning your degree. Your Degree. Your Way. Undergraduate Options > You can choose any undergraduate or graduate degree program that is offered by the University of Memphis, either on-campus or online. Not sure where to start? We highly recommend a degree in Professional Studies because it offers the most flexibility in course choices, transfer credits and Experiential Learning Credit, which means you can finish faster! Graduate Options > Fully-Online Options > -Utilize Your City of Memphis Employee Tuition Benefit- Tuition Allowance Maximization Federal Financial Aid No Upfront Tuition Expenses A financial aid specialist will review your funding availability and usage to help budget your annual tuition allowance. You may be eligible for Federal Financial Aid by completing the FAFSA application. Federal aid can be loans (to be repaid) and/or grants (do not have to be repaid). As long as you are in good academic standing and have a satisfactory evaluation, your eligible tuition expenses (up to the maximum annual benefit authorized by the City) will be direct-billed to the City of Memphis. The City of Memphis requires students to submit a Letter of Credit (LOC) for tuition benefits to apply towards classes. If you are interested in utilizing your tuition benefit, LOCs must be submitted for every semester you enroll in classes. If you have any questions about the LOC process, please contact your Student Advocate, ShaRhonda Williams, at srwllms7@memphis.edu. COMPETE Prep Academy If you are new to college, new to online learning or you’ve been out of school for a while, the Prep Academy is an excellent starting point. Self-paced, online coursework Unlimited attempts to succeed, no upfront costs Key topics include: Academic Success, Career Planning and Development, Personal and Career Success Prep Academy Success = Admission to UofM + 12 College Credit Hours LIMITED-TIME Special Offer Application fees waived for all Fall 2021 applications Are you an employee of the Memphis Fire Department? Learn more about our program RISE: Responders Initiating Success through Education program > Experiential Learning Credit We believe students achieve college-level learning through experiences outside of the classroom, including professional development training, earning licenses or certifications, completing military training and volunteering in the community. Our ELC Program allows you to demonstrate the academic merit of your experiences. All, while potentially earning college credit hours and shortening your path to graduation. Some degree programs allow up to 30 credit hours of ELC, and your City of Memphis training may be eligible to be evaluated for course credit. Learn more about ELC > COMPETE: Prepare. Excel. Achieve. Complete the COMPETE Interest Form below. A UofM Global Advocate will contact you to help create the best game plan for you. Level of Degree Undergraduate Graduate Education Level High School Diploma Some College: 1-30 Credit Hours Some College: 31-60 Credit Hours Some College: 60+ Credit Hours Earned Associate's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Other Are you planning to complete your degree fully online? Yes No Undecided Are you currently enrolled in college? Yes No Have you ever attended the University of Memphis? Yes No I authorize my employer to release my training record to the University of Memphis. Yes No Have you applied for tuition reimbursement? Yes No Put Yourself in the Best Position to Succeed: Lane Four Complete the Lane Four Interest Form below. A UofM Global Advocate will contact you to help create the best track for you. To receive tuition assistance through this program we must share your educational records (including financial aid, grades, academic progress, etc) with your employer. The privacy of your educational records is normally protected under the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Please review the FERPA guidelines linked below and respond to the following statement: I approve the release of my educational information to my employer and any third party directly related to my tuition benefits. I understand that this information is normally protected under FERPA guidelines, however I give my consent to share this information for the purpose of this program’s direct billing process. I also understand that if I do not give my consent, I will not be able to participate in this program. Yes No Request More Information > Review Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Guidelines > COMPETE: A Collaboration Between University of Memphis | 844.302.3886 | compete@memphis.edu Memphis, TN 38152 | uofmglobal.memphis.edu Thank You!