Skip to Main Content Brown University University Compliance Search Menu Site Navigation Home What We Do Who We Are Policy & SOP Resources Compliance Matrix & Reporting Requirements Off Campus Compliance Resources Reporting Concerns Anonymous Reporting Hotline FAQs Other Reporting Options Education & Training Search University Compliance Anonymous Reporting Hotline Sub Navigation In This Section Anonymous Reporting Hotline FAQs Other Reporting Options Anonymous Reporting Hotline You can report behaviors inconsistent with or in violation of Brown's COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy by going to brown.edu/go/covidconcernreporting. If you don't feel comfortable speaking with a Brown supervisor or using one of the other reporting options on this, or another ethical or compliance concern, you can make a report through Brown University's Anonymous Reporting Hotline. See "Report Concerns" below. Report Concerns Reporting a concern will not jeopardize your employment and is a service to “Your Brown.” Make “Your Voice” heard, call 877-318-9184 or report online. Make a report Your Concerns Are Our Concerns To encourage individuals to voice their concerns, Brown University has an Anonymous Reporting Hotline and website which provides the opportunity to report concerns in an anonymous manner. This hotline may be used to report behaviors inconsistent with or in violation of Brown’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy, fraud and a variety of ethical and compliance concerns. The hotline is meant for reporting of issues in situations where you don't feel comfortable speaking with a supervisor or another resource. The Hotline is staffed and managed by a third-party provider and all reports are given careful attention by the appropriate Brown University Administrators. The Hotline is NOT a 911 or Emergency Service: Do not use this site to report events presenting an immediate threat to life or property. Reports submitted through this service may not receive an immediate response. If you require emergency assistance, please contact your local authorities. To contact Brown University Public Safety call 401-863-4111. Frequently Asked Questions To find out more about the Anonymous Reporting Hotline Learn more Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home What We Do Who We Are Policy & SOP Resources Compliance Matrix & Reporting Requirements Off Campus Compliance Resources Reporting Concerns Anonymous Reporting Hotline FAQs Other Reporting Options Education & Training This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Anonymous Reporting Hotline Open details for Anonymous Reporting Hotline Bookmark this Page