Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU banner_department_of_comparative_literature.jpg HOME Undergraduate Prospective Students Sophomores Juniors Seniors Secondary Field in Comparative Literature Secondary Field in Translation Studies Undergraduate Alumni Graduate Admissions Guide for Graduate Students Forms and Resources Journals/Conferences for Graduate Students PhD Dissertations Poggioli Colloquium Teaching Graduate Alumni Alumni Directory Courses People Faculty Books by Our Faculty Department Administration Graduate Students Undergraduate Tutorial Board Emeriti Faculty Affiliates Translation Studies Requirements Courses Translation Studies Resources and Events How to Find Out More Resources Remote Teaching Resources News Publications Publication Subsidies Library Research Guides Visiting Scholars Application About Contact Congratulations to the Class of 2022 and to our Award and Fellowship Recipients! The Institute for World Literature will meet at Johannes Gutenberg University in Mainz, Germany, in July 2022 New Book by Professor John Hamilton New book by Professor Martin Puchner New book by Professor David Damrosch New book by Professor Mariano Siskind Congratulations to all the Comp Lit recipients of a Fall 2021 Teaching Award from the Bok Center! More info here. Fathers, killers, God, and ‘Maus’: Flashback to Cartoonist Art Spiegelman's Visit in 2017 Click here for the full Harvard Gazette article The Dana-Palmer House Crimson Article on the Dana-Palmer House Remy the Humanities Cat The Cantabridgian cat who loves hanging out in and around the Dana-Palmer House Concentrating in Comparative Literature Interested in Concentrating in Comparative Literature? Check out our Spring 2022 events for Prospective Concentrators for more information. Contact our Director of Undergraduate Studies, Dr. Sandra Naddaff. Welcome from the Chair Reflecting the ongoing paradigm shift of comparative studies from an almost exclusive focus on Western European traditions to a newly global awareness, our faculty ranks have expanded in recent years to encompass a world-wide range of languages and cultures, even as we pursue new approaches to an expanded range of European literatures themselves. Read More. Featured Articles Why Does Ukraine Have a Jewish President? Ask Isaac Babel Zelensky’s bravery is reminiscent of the Russian writer’s fierce refusal to curb his independence. WSJ article by Professor Ruth R. Wisse A Collapse No One Story Can Tell Daniel Behar's (PhD '19) recent article in Public Books. It’s Your Turn to (Re)Write the Story Lara Norgaard, PhD student, argues that experimental fiction can democratize storytelling in this recent article published by Public Books. "The Identity Problem" in Prenatal Testing This essay by PhD student Nina Begus won an Award in Reproductive Ethics from the journal Voices in Bioethics. History Lessons Reviewing the history of migration through a different lens with Argyro Nicolaou (PhD '18). A World of Literature David Damrosch’s literary global reach. Reframing cultures Mahnoor Ali (BA '19) adds new colors and critiques in her exploration of literature and art. Recent News Congratulations to the Class of 2022 and to our Award and Fellowship Recipients! Thursday, May 26, 2022 Debut Novel by Nikki Erlick '16: "The Measure" Friday, May 27, 2022 Congratulations to Jerrica Li '22 on making the Three Minute Thesis Competition Finals! Tuesday, April 26, 2022 Come see Comp Lit students perform at ARTS FIRST 2022! Wednesday, April 20, 2022 Congratulations to our Artist Development Fellowship recipients! Wednesday, April 20, 2022 Complacency: Classics and Its Displacement in Higher Education - A New Book by John T. Hamilton Thursday, April 7, 2022 Sending Gratitude to All of our Graduate Students Tuesday, April 5, 2022 More Search Subscribe to our Events Mailing List comp_lit_logo_blk.png Department of Comparative Literature 16 Quincy Street Dana-Palmer House Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 617-495-1900 Contact us Useful Links Comp Lit Intranet (protected) Institute for World Literature Follow us https://www.facebook.com/harvardcomplitFacebook https://www.instagram.com/harvardcomplit/Instagram Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement