Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Master’s in Data-Enabled Computational Engineering and Science Search Menu Site Navigation Home Courses Program Admission People FAQ Search Master’s in Data-Enabled Computational Engineering and Science Frequently Asked Questions Find answers to commonly asked questions about the program. Have Other Questions? We'd love to hear from you. Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Find answers to commonly asked questions about the program. Applying How do I apply? Applications must be completed on-line. Who should I contact with questions? Administrative questions about the program should be directed to computationalengineering@brown.edu. I have been out of school more than five years. Can I still apply? Of course! While it is recommended that students have earned a bachelor of science degree in the past five years, this is only a guideline. Deadlines What is the deadline for applications? The application deadline is April 1. Applications submitted by February 1 will be given first preference, and those received after this date will be accepted on a rolling basis through April 1. Brown undergraduates may apply as fifth-year master’s students through May 1. Financing Your Education What types of financial support are available? Many of our engineering master's degree students receive financial support from their employers, including being sponsored in our programs, or receiving tuition reimbursement from their employers. In addition, a variety of student loans are generally available. At this time, there are no financial scholarships for master's students within engineering. The Office of Financial Aid handles loan applications for graduate students. Eligible students can apply for a Federal Direct Student Loan. Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) forms which determine eligibility for federal funds are available at www.fafsa.ed.gov. Learn more about financial aid at Brown or get more information about financial aid for master's students. What is the tuition? Total tuition and fees are comparable to other master's degree programs at Brown. Updated rates are posted on the Graduate School website. Timeline How many courses do I need to take? The Sc.M. program in Data-Enabled Computational Engineering and Science requires eight (8) courses. There is also an optional thesis track, which requires (8) courses plus completion of a research project and writing a master's thesis. How long does it take to complete the program? The standard non-thesis sequence is three semesters, with three courses taken in the first semester, three in the second, and two in the third. The standard thesis sequence is four semesters with three courses taken in the first semester, two courses in the second, two courses in the third semester, and one in the final semester. How does tuition work? If I take three semesters to do the Sc.M., am I paying more than I would in two semesters? The tuition for the eight required courses is spread over three semesters, with 3/4 of a semester's tuition charged in each of the first two semesters, and 1/2 of a semester's tuition charged in the third. Any deviation in the number of courses taken per semester may result in additional tuition charges/financial penalties. Can I complete the degree in two semesters? All 5th year master's students can complete in one-year. In some circumstances, it may be possible for regular Sc.M. students to complete the degree in two semesters. https://player.vimeo.com/video/656161605 Have Other Questions? We'd love to hear from you. Contact Us Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Courses Program Admission People FAQ This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Frequently Asked Questions Open details for Frequently Asked Questions Bookmark this Page