/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Study Russian Minor Graduate Program Current Graduate Students Courses TA/Lecturer Office Hours Comparative Literature Undergraduate Society Rosenberg Travel Grant Faculty Graduate Field Faculty Russian Language Instructors Emeritus Faculty Office Hours Research About Us Department Contacts Resources The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Offering a full, rich, global view of world literature and cultures Department of Comparative Literature The Department of Comparative Literature provides a broad range of courses in European as well as non-European literatures. Courses variously stress significant authors, themes, problems, styles, genres, historical periods, and theoretical perspectives. In cooperation with related departments in the humanities, the departmental offerings reflect current interdisciplinary approaches to literary study: hermeneutics, semiotics, deconstruction, cultural criticism, Marxism, reception aesthetics, feminism, psychoanalysis. Comparative Literature Awards and Recognition Congratulations to this year's Graduate Prize Winners! Cathy Caruth Congratulations to Cathy Caruth, The Stephen and Margery Russell Distinguished Teaching Award Recipient Faculty Spotlight: Jonathan Monroe To grasp the achievements of writer Roberto Bolaño, whose work encompasses both Europe and the Americas, one must understand not only poetry and fiction but also literary history and politics, argues Jonathan Monroe, a professor of comparative literature and a member of the graduate fields of comparative literature, English, and Romance studies at Cornell. In this Chats in the Stacks talk in Olin Library, Monroe discusses his new book, Framing Roberto Bolaño: Poetry, Fiction, Literary History, Politics (Cambridge University Press, 2019), which contributes to an expanded understanding of the entirety of Bolaño’s work and his importance within both hemispheric studies and world literature. Department News Cathy Caruth Congratulations to Cathy Caruth, The Stephen and Margery Russell Distinguished Teaching Award Recipient Cathy Caruth, professor of comparative literature and literatures in English, was honored with The Stephen and Margery Russell Distinguished Teaching Award. Read More Einaudi awards fund global research and activities Seed grants, student travel grants and internships totaling $355,000 in the 2021–22 academic year supported international work done by many A&S faculty and students. Read More Congratulations to this year's Graduate Prize Winners! The Department of Comparative Literature has awarded Kun Huang the 2022 Graduate Student Teaching Award, and Praveen Tilakaratne the 2022 Graduate Student Essay Award. Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Migrations grants fund worldwide interdisciplinary projects Cornell faculty and their community partners will tell the stories of local migrant farmworkers, use documentary film to better understand climate change and dispossession, learn how migratory birds are affected by drug trafficking and more. Read More 'I did not close myself off from my potential' Jonathan Mercedes is a comparative literature major. Read More How did Leymah Gbowee's protests lead to lasting peace? Naminata Diabate outlines the movement's tactics and explains how womens' protests helped end the Liberian civil war. Read More 2022 Cornell Biennial artist preview With the theme “Futurities, Uncertain," the fifth Cornell art biennial will feature artworks, installations, and performances. Read More More News Comparative Literature Destinations Undergraduate Study Graduate Program Faculty Profiles Course Listings Russian Minor Upcoming Events See all events 240 Goldwin Smith Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email A&S Departments 607-255-4155 Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top