Skip to Main Content Brown University Comparative Literature Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us About Us Contact Office Hours Faculty Meet our Faculty By Language By Period Undergraduate Program About the Undergraduate Program Info for Prospective Concentrators Honors Program Career Forum Department Undergraduate Group Graduate Program About the Graduate Program Current Students Program/Handbooks Reading Lists Translation Studies Certificate Courses Current Courses Previous Courses News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events The Andrea Rosenthal Memorial Lecture The Reinhard Kuhn Memorial Lecture Search Comparative Literature Info for Prospective Concentrators Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Program Sub Navigation In This Section About the Undergraduate Program Info for Prospective Concentrators Honors Program Career Forum Department Undergraduate Group Info for Prospective Concentrators Professor Elias Muhanna, Director of Undergraduate Studies Welcome to Comparative Literature! This page contains some information on how to declare a concentration in Comp Lit, how to plan out your courses, and whom to speak to if you need any help. Declaring a concentration in Comparative Literature is easy. Here’s how it works: Your first step should be to reach out to the Director of Undergraduate Studies (Prof. Elias Muhanna) or to one of our Concentration Advisors to set up a meeting. The purpose of this initial conversation is to get to know you! We want to learn about your interests, what relevant courses you might have taken in the past, and what you might like to study in the future. Even if you’re not 100% certain that you’re ready to declare, it’s a great idea to come in and have a chat. Our door is always open! Before coming in for your first meeting, take a little time to read about the concentration on the "Undergraduate Program" section of our website. Think about which track might suit you. Are you interested in studying two different literatures? Three? What about the track in literary translation? It’s fine if you’re not quite sure yet. We can help! If you do have an idea of which track you'd like to follow, download the Requirements Checklist for that track and fill it out to the best of your ability. It’s ok to be a little vague about this, because your course plans will change from year to year. To get a sense of what courses might be offered in future years, have a look at what we’ve offered in the past. After your first meeting with Professor Muhanna or another Concentration Advisor, you’ll be ready to finalize your concentration. Here’s how that works. If you haven't already, you'll fill out the Requirements Checklist for your chosen track, and have it approved by your advisor during office hours. Start a declaration on ASK. Write a brief personal statement about your interest in Comparative Literature and upload it to the declaration page on ASK. Transfer the courses from your approved Requirements Checklist to the "Course Program" section on the ASK declaration. (Do not include language instruction prerequisites, just the courses that are counting toward the concentration.) Upload the approved checklist itself as well. Hit “save” and “submit”. You’re done! Once your declaration has been submitted, we will read it over and either approve it or send you suggestions through ASK. After the concentration has been approved, you’ll be an official Comparative Literature concentrator! Congratulations! If you have any questions about any stage of the process, don’t hesitate to contact Professor Muhanna or another Concentration Advisor. We look forward to welcoming you to Comparative Literature! Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us About Us Contact Office Hours Faculty Meet our Faculty By Language By Period Undergraduate Program About the Undergraduate Program Info for Prospective Concentrators Honors Program Career Forum Department Undergraduate Group Graduate Program About the Graduate Program Current Students Program/Handbooks Reading Lists Translation Studies Certificate Courses Current Courses Previous Courses News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events The Andrea Rosenthal Memorial Lecture The Reinhard Kuhn Memorial Lecture This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Info for Prospective Concentrators Open details for Info for Prospective Concentrators Bookmark this Page