Skip to Main Content Brown University Comparative Literature Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us About Us Contact Office Hours Faculty Meet our Faculty By Language By Period Undergraduate Program About the Undergraduate Program Info for Prospective Concentrators Honors Program Career Forum Department Undergraduate Group Graduate Program About the Graduate Program Current Students Program/Handbooks Reading Lists Translation Studies Certificate Courses Current Courses Previous Courses News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events The Andrea Rosenthal Memorial Lecture The Reinhard Kuhn Memorial Lecture Search Comparative Literature About Us Sub Navigation In This Section About Us Contact Office Hours About Us Comparative Literature is the study of cultural expression across linguistic boundaries. The community of comparatists at Brown includes faculty, graduate students, and undergraduates who share a commitment to multilingualism and interdisciplinary study. This community includes scholars of literature in English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, German, Italian, Swedish, Russian, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Hebrew, Arabic, Latin, and Greek. Areas of focus include classical reception, post-colonial literature, environmental humanities, literary theory, and translation studies. Although these groupings may suggest segregated interests, the Department’s hallmark is inclusiveness and collaboration. Faculty and students work in several areas, several literatures, and often several disciplines. Department offerings and research make frequent use of linguistics, film, photography, visual art, music, philosophy, history, sociology, political science, computer science, medicine, and the digital humanities. Courses span the cultures of the world and historical periods ranging from antiquity to the present. Students read widely from different literatures and disciplines, developing a focused critical understanding of important literary and cultural questions. Both the Department’s undergraduate and graduate programs are held to be among the finest in the country. Info for Prospective Concentrators Interested in declaring a concentration in Comparative Literature? Click below. Info for Prospective Concentrators Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us About Us Contact Office Hours Faculty Meet our Faculty By Language By Period Undergraduate Program About the Undergraduate Program Info for Prospective Concentrators Honors Program Career Forum Department Undergraduate Group Graduate Program About the Graduate Program Current Students Program/Handbooks Reading Lists Translation Studies Certificate Courses Current Courses Previous Courses News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events The Andrea Rosenthal Memorial Lecture The Reinhard Kuhn Memorial Lecture This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Us Open details for About Us Bookmark this Page