Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Compliance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Hotline Contacts Code Policies Minors ID Theft Prevention Resources Training About Us Program Statement of Ethical Conduct and Administrative Code of Conduct University Compliance You are here: Home Code Statement of Ethical Conduct and Administrative Code of Conduct Statement of Ethical Conduct and Administrative Code of Conduct The Statement of Ethical Conduct and the Administrative Code of Conduct embody the University's values. The principles expressed in these core documents govern interactions at the University and promote an environment of respect that is central to its success and that of the individuals who work here. The booklet also includes expanded and updated resources sections titled "Where do I go with a concern?" and "To learn more." Read the full Statement of Ethical Conduct and Administrative Code of Conduct. Statement of Ethical Conduct Columbia University expects all officers of instruction, administration, and research, support staff and students to maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct. Principles: Be honest, ethical, and truthful. Obey the law. Follow University policies and procedures. Read the Statement of Ethical Conduct Administrative Code of Conduct The Code articulates the principles that govern interactions at the University and some of the basic expectations that flow from those principles. Read the Administrative Code of Conduct Respect for Governance Respect for Others Respect for Information Respect for Property Non-Retaliation Policy The University prohibits retaliation against those who report compliance or ethics concerns in good faith. Read the full Non-Retaliation Policy. Submit a compliance report Hotline (866) 627-3768 24 hours a day / 7 days a week Anonymous reporting available Online File a report online Office of University Compliance91 Claremont Ave., Suite 516 · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close