University of Illinois COMPASS 2G Blackboard Learn ™ View Options Change Text Size High Contrast Setting Please enable JavaScript in your browser for the Blackboard application to function. Have an account? Please enter your credentials and click the Login button below. Username Password Forgot Your Password? (new window) Sign in with third-party account Login with your Illinois NetID System Announcements Countdown to Illinois Compass Retirement (Wednesday, April 27, 2022) As part of the Canvas@Illinois deployment, we're tracking the retirement of the Illinois Compass service, currently set for the end of day on May 31, 2022. Canvas Trainings Offered by CITL (Thursday, January 20, 2022) We want to call your attention to the upcoming Canvas trainings and workshops being offered by CITL: Canvas Open Office Hours: Wednesdays 1 PM - 2 PM CITL's Instructional Support Team is hosting open office hours to provide support, training, and consultation for Canvas. Please visit us at the following Zoom link. Introducing UIUC AnyWare (Wednesday, September 8, 2021) Technology Services offers UIUC AnyWare which provides virtual access to over 100 software applications for students. UIUC AnyWare is a virtual desktop environment allowing student to access software whether remote, on campus, or in class. Students can access UIUC AnyWare on multiple devices and operating systems including Windows, MacOS, and Linux, iOS, and Android. For more information about UIUC AnyWare, visit go.illinois.edu/uiucanyware. File Upload Limit In Place (Friday, March 5, 2021) The weekend of February 27-28, a file upload limit of 100MB per file was enabled on the Illinois Compass system. This was done in order to reduce our storage footprint within our managed hosting provider, and reduce overall hosting costs to the University. Further details can be found within this Illinois Knowledge Base document: Illinois Compass2g, File Upload and Storage Limits (uillinois.edu) , including some tips on changing your work flow to integrate other services to host these larger files. Trouble with Zoom? (Thursday, February 18, 2021) Having trouble logging in to your university Zoom account? Due to new restrictions by Campus Security and the Office of the Chancellor, ALL University of Illinois Zoom accounts are now required to sign in to Zoom using Shibboleth Single Sign On (SSO). For information on the requirements and potential error messages, please see Zoom, Sign In Requirements (illinois.edu). For further information regarding logging in with SSO, please see Zoom, Logging In (illinois.edu). About Illinois Compass 2g Illinois Compass 2g is an enterprise learning management system powered by Blackboard's Learn platform. It gives faculty, instructors, students, and others a collaborative online space with tools for: * Preparing, managing, and delivering course content in a variety of teaching styles * Assessing students through multiple types of learning activities * Tracking and publishing grades * Keeping course material available to students outside the classroom walls. This custom installation is hosted by Technology Services for use by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Student Training Resources Basic documentation and tutorials to get you started using Illinois Compass. Instructor Resources Includes information about how to request your course site and tutorials on how to use Compass more effectively. Help For questions or problems concerning Illinois Compass 2g, please contact the Technology Services Help Desk at (217) 244-7000 or email consult@illinois.edu. © 1997-2022 Blackboard Inc. All Rights Reserved. U.S. Patent No. 7,493,396 and 7,558,853. Additional Patents Pending. Accessibility information