Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Comparative Literature Program Comparative Literature Program Contact Us Comparative.Literature@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Come Take a Gentle Stab by Salim Barakat PreviousNext For the full article click on: Asymptote In her acclaimed essay "The Master's Tools Will Never Dismantle the Master's House" (1984), Audre Lorde argues that "[survival] is learning how to take our differences and make them strengths." "For the master's tools," she adds, "will never dismantle the master's house. They may allow us temporarily to beat him at his own game, but they will never enable us to bring about genuine change." Written in the context of feminism, Lorde's argument is that we must approach feminist questions intersectionally, to "deal with the differences between us [women]." What Lorde advocates for in the context of feminism, Syrian-Kurdish poet and novelist Salim Barakat (b. 1951) puts into practice, if obliquely, in the context of Arabic poetry and language. Woman is to Lorde what Arabic is to Barakat: if Lorde wants to expand the category of woman—which implicitly (read: normatively) means white cisgender woman—to include other perspectives from lesbian, Black, transgender women, and so on, Barakat wants to stretch Arabic poetry (and language) to include that which is not ethnically Arab—in his case, that would be the Kurdish. Operating under the umbrella of Arabic, Barakat "pacifically" (to borrow yasser elhariry's term) lays claim to Arabic poetry with Kurdish names, cultural references, geography, and topography. When the packs of wolves descend from the north, dragging their asses through the snow, howling and setting the locked barns and throats of dogs ablaze, I hear Dinoka's death rattle. This is an excerpt from "Come, Dinoka Breva, Take a Gentle Stab!" (1973), one of Barakat's first poems in Come, Take a Gentle Stab, a collection sampling his poetry from 1973 to 2019, sensitively translated from the Arabic into English, for the first time, by Huda J. Fakhreddine and Jayson Iwen and published by Seagull Books. Yet, insofar as Barakat imbues Arabic poetry with Kurdish, his project of defamiliarizing Arabic poetry becomes a success only by pushing the Arabic language itself to its very limits. "Arabic is not his first language, but he defiantly plunders it and lays claim to it," Fakhreddine writes. "With his work," she adds, "Arabic readers are on the threshold of comprehension, exceedingly conscious of themselves as explorers of what has thus far eluded them." Tom Abi Samra is currently an M.A. student of comparative literature at Dartmouth College. He earned his B.A. in literature and creative writing from New York University Abu Dhabi. His research interests include early modern Arabic literature, global early modern studies, travel literature, and critical theory. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Comparative Literature Program Undergraduate About the Program Courses Courses Recommended For First Year Students Course Descriptions Major How to Apply Minor in Translation Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Past Theses Awards & Prizes Undergraduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview About the Program Current MA Students How to Apply Degree Requirements Courses Graduate Alumni Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Academic Achievement Award COLT MA Graduate Handbook News & Events Overview Annual Hoffman Lecture Annual Zantop Memorial Lecture People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback