Comparative Literature Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Comparative Literature Main Menu Menu Home Graduate Submenu Overview Contacts Admissions and Fellowships New Students Graduate Guide to Study General Exam Dates Fall 2021/Spring 2022 Courses Inventory Job Candidates' Handbook Placement Fellowships/ Awards Undergraduate Submenu For Prospective Majors Submenu What is Comp Lit? Careers in Comp Lit Prerequisites Declaring Major Welcome FAQs Departmental Events Contacts For Current Majors Submenu Contacts Requirements Fall 2021/Spring 2022 Courses Associated Certificates Funding and Study Abroad Deadlines Online Forms Departmental Events Independent Work Senior Comprehensive Examinations Reading Selection List Prizes Class Pictures FAQs People Submenu Administrative Officers Core Faculty Emeritus Faculty Visiting Faculty Associated Faculty Affiliates Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Staff Alumni Books Events Submenu Past Events Conference Submenu Past Conferences News Submenu News Archive Event Registration Log in Search Search Comparative Literature 1 / 5 Previous image ◀︎ Next image ▶︎ Welcome to the Department of Comparative Literature. Comparative Literature at Princeton invites students both to read texts closely and to think about the nature, function, and value of literature within a broad context. Our courses are not confined to a single national literature but rather engage many different traditions, genres, and languages across the globe. They also set literature in juxtaposition to art, film, philosophy, psychology, history, law, and other fields that provide context and comparison. Students have considerable freedom to construct their own course programs within the guidelines set by the Department, and to use courses from other disciplines as part of the major. Here on the Princeton campus, we sponsor lecture series, conferences, publications, internships, and research opportunities at every level. Many of these programs are supported by our generous alumni and other friends of the department. They join our strong local community of professors, students, and staff as we pursue a global vision of literary and cultural study. Undergraduate Find information about the major, the range of classes and independent work we offer, funding opportunities, deadlines, prizes, pictures, and more. Graduate Find details about the application process, fellowships, requirements for a doctorate in Comparative Literature, awards, and our placement record. People Find departmental administrators, faculty members, graduate and undergraduate students, staff, alumni and more. Footer Department of Comparative Literature 133 East Pyne, Princeton, NJ 08544 Phone: 609-258-4027 Fax: 609-258-1873 Image Credits Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University