Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Compliance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Hotline Contacts Code Policies Minors ID Theft Prevention Resources Training About Us Program Statement of Ethical Conduct and Administrative Code of Conduct University Compliance You are here: Home Training Training Expand all Collapse all HR Compliance and Training Columbia’s Anti-Harassment, Discrimination and Title IX Training Maintaining a positive work environment, and promoting a workplace free from discrimination and harassment, supports the academic and research mission of the University by ensuring all members of our community can contribute to their fullest potential. This online training program was developed collaboratively by colleagues across the University in accord with Columbia's Equal Employment Opportunity and Nondiscrimination Policies and Procedures on Discrimination, Discriminatory Harassment and Sexual Harassment. Read about the training program. Protection of Minors at Columbia This course is designed to familiarize members of the Columbia community with University policy and relevant law on reporting suspected child abuse and maltreatment of minors. The course includes definitions of child abuse and maltreatment, possible signs and indicators, appropriate responses, how to report a concern, and appropriate interactions with minors. Members of the Columbia University community, who interact with, supervise, chaperone, or otherwise oversee minors in programs or activities at the University or sponsored by the University. The Protection of Minors Training will be offered both online via Courseworks, as well in a few limited live training sessions. For the convenient online, 30-minute webcast, you can send an email with your name and UNI to [email protected]. (You must provide a valid UNI to take the training.) If you would like to register all your team or staff, please send a list with their names and UNIs to [email protected]. Access the instructions on how to access the training after you have submitted your UNI. For additional information on the Protection of Minors training, please contact Ursula Bollini at [email protected]. Security Awareness Training Columbia University values the importance of openly communicating and sharing information, while protecting sensitive data and computer systems. Each member of the Columbia community plays an integral role in helping secure information to which he or she has access and to protect our information, users and systems. This course includes security essentials, social engineering, protecting sensitive information, Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI Basics), Protected Health Information (PHI) and HIPAA Privacy. It describes how to protect sensitive information and mitigate risks of information loss by explaining what information needs to be protected, the consequences of information exposure, how information can be lost or stolen and how to protect sensitive information. It also explains FERPA and what is included in an educational record, types of information that can be disclosed, and the rights of both students and parents regarding educational records. It also covers PCI Basics which help to prevent credit card fraud and breaches of cardholder information. Finally, it also explains HIPAA Privacy and electronic protected health information (PHI), HIPAA regulations and impact on health care providers and it explains the rule addresses the confidentiality, integrity and availability of PHI in an electronic form. Read more about security training. Hazing Prevention Training Columbia’s ongoing hazing prevention efforts focus on working in partnership with students and campus leaders to ensure a common understanding of the distinction between appropriate initiation, appreciation, and welcoming rituals versus hazing of new members. Students are strongly encouraged to speak with a club or organizational advisor, a coach, or staff member to discuss plans and ideas about appreciation and initiation activities in advance. Annual Residential Adviser (RA) training involves a hazing prevention module, which is also connected to bystander intervention work. Hazing Prevention training raises awareness of the definition of hazing and moving towards healthy and positive initiations as groups welcome new members. Groups receiving Hazing Prevention information include: student-athletes, Fraternity and Sorority Life leaders and new members, Undergraduate Student Life club and organization leaders, advising staff, Department of Intercollegiate Athletics staff and coaches, and Public Safety. Read more about hazing prevention. For additional information on Hazing Prevention training, please contact Cristen Kromm at [email protected] or Jacqueline Blackett at [email protected]. Sexual Respect Training Sexual Violence Response offers a variety of workshops and trainings on topics that educate and teach skills or techniques necessary to address sexual or relationship violence. To request a training, please complete the Sexual Violence Response online workshop request form. Most workshops and trainings are open to all members of the Columbia community, including students, faculty, and staff. However, to maximize the information in each workshop, some sessions are designed specifically for students or faculty/staff only. Please review the description of each workshop or training carefully before submitting a request. For additional information on Sexual Respect training, visit the website at https://sexualrespect.columbia.edu/. Identity Theft Prevention Program Training The online training module located at columbia.stridepoint.com provides an introduction to Columbia University's Identity Theft Prevention Program. It is mandatory training for any University personnel working with personally identifiable information (social security numbers, bank accounts, credit cards, insurance records...etc.). Its objective is to ensure that the University and its employees comply with their legal and institutional responsibilities to protect personally identifying information. This includes providing employees with the tools they need to comply with the Federal Trade Commission's Red Flag Rules. Read a copy of the Policy. Service Providers Service Providers identified as “creditors” or “financial institutions” that provide “covered accounts” (as those terms are defined in the Red Flags Rule) should maintain and follow their own ID Theft Prevention Policies. If the Service provider does not have an ID Theft Prevention Policy, it must follow Columbia’s policy. Read a copy of Columbia’s written Identity Theft Prevention Program (ITPP) pursuant to the FTC Red Flags Rule, 16 C.F.R. §681.2. All service providers need to complete an Identity Theft Prevention Program Attestation. If You Suspect or Detect Identity Theft Get the list of program managers. Read the summary of the required actions and related materials: Read and comply with the policy Take the Identity Theft Prevention training Identify and familiarize yourself with examples of “Red Flags” in your area Design procedures to detect the Red Flags you’ve identified Inform your manager/supervisor AND appropriate Program Managers of an incident or suspicion of identity theft immediately Get the list of Program Managers Document any suspicious activity or information that may suggest Identity Theft using the Red Flag Incident Report Ensure that new service providers with covered accounts have signed the Service Provider Attestation Contact the Identity Theft Prevention Team with any questions at [email protected] Learning and Development Lynda.com Lynda.com is an online training resource that offers videos on business skills, IT skills and desktop skills. The subscription for the Columbia community gives Faculty and Staff unlimited access to a vast library of high-quality, current and engaging videos tutorials taught by recognized industry experts. Read more about Lynda.com. Orientation - Welcome Programs As soon as possible after your first day of work, attend an orientation to learn more about the University and the benefits in which you can enroll. Be sure to bring your benefits enrollment kit, if you are eligible for benefits. Read about the details for Morningside Campus. Read about the details for CUMC. Navigating the University as a New Manager or Supervisor This two day management development program is only open to new and current managers and supervisors at the University. Topics include: reviewing manager/supervisor role and responsibilities at Columbia University; learning best practices for effectively managing day-to-day operations; gaining tips on identifying and navigating relevant University resources; practicing solving basic management issues and creating a personal action plan for successful supervision and personal development. Billing Compliance Training Billing Compliance Billing Compliance Training Annual Billing Compliance Training is an essential obligation under our Compliance Plan. This training is one of 3 modules the Office for Billing Compliance has developed for the CU community to choose from: live sessions audio CD on-line training. Every physician, non-physician practitioner or staff member who is involved in the generation or submission of medical claims, as well as in any aspects of revenue management, needs to be trained. Read more about Billing Compliance Training. Billing Compliance New Hire Training All new CUMC employees (Faculty / Billing Staff) are required to attend “live” new hire training within 30 days of hire. See the training schedule. For additional information about the Office of Billing Compliance, call (212) 305-3842 or by e-mail [email protected]. HIPAA Compliance Training HIPAA Compliance HIPAA Privacy & Information Security Training All CUMC workforce members (faculty, staff and students) must complete a mandatory HIPAA Privacy & Information Security training. Faculty, staff and students are registered to complete the on-line course when their Columbia UNI is created. Once the UNI is activated the user receives an email with the link to access the course. All courses must be completed before requesting access to clinical applications at the medical center. Access Annual HIPAA Training For additional information about HIPAA Privacy Compliance, call (212) 305-7315 or e-mail at [email protected]. Finance Training The Finance Division offers a variety of training resources to help anyone at the University with a finance related position learn about Columbia’s financial systems and understand important policies, procedures, and compliance issues. Training classes are instructor led or web-based and provide both high level context about transactional and business processes as well as hands-on recorded simulations of transactions in financial systems, such as ARC. Many system roles have a web-based training requirement prior to access. Learn more about finance training. Some roles within the Finance Division (and certain University offices who work directly with Central Administration) require additional web-based training before special system and reporting access is approved by the ARC Security team Learn more about required trainings. For additional information, please see the Finance Training website or email [email protected]. Research Compliance and Training Training Finder Tool The Office of Research Compliance and Training has launched an interactive tool that helps you identify your required research compliance trainings. Read about the Training Finder Tool. Responsible Conduct of Research Training Several federal funding agencies, such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the National Science Foundation (NSF), require certain individuals participating in projects funded by those agencies to receive training in the Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR). Read about Responsible Conduct of Research Training. Effort Reporting The Columbia Effort Reporting Policy includes enhanced training requirements for both administrators and faculty involved in sponsored research. Read about Effort Reporting. Columbia University Certification in Administration of Sponsored Projects The Columbia University Certification in Administration of Sponsored Projects is a certificate program for Columbia administrative staff involved in sponsored projects. The program includes in-person courses (Research Compliance Foundations, Sponsored Projects Essentials), as well as on-line material in Rascal. Read about the Columbia University Certification in Administration of Sponsored Projects. Financial Conflicts of Interest and Research An on-line course available in Rascal introduces researchers to basic principles of Financial Conflicts of Interest and reviews Columbia's Policy on Financial Conflicts of Interest and Research. Click Read about Financial Conflicts of Interest and Research for details. Note: read about fulfilling the Public Health Service’s (PHS) COI training requirement Columbia’s “Code of Conduct” and Contractor Business Ethics (TC0095) This Rascal course introduces Columbia's Code of Conduct and satisfies the federal requirement for training in ethical business practices. Read about TC0095. For additional information on Research Compliance training, please contact Joel Roselin at [email protected]. Columbia University Human Research Protection Program CU Human Research Protection Program Before a protocol will be approved by a CU IRB, the PI must review the Human Subjects Protection Training course and receive a passing score of 80 or greater on the relevant exams. Research personnel other than the PI who have contact with subjects, contact with confidential study data, or are otherwise engaged in the research (i.e., key personnel) must also complete training in the protection of human subjects prior to participation in the research. Read additional information on the Human Subjects Protection training requirement. HIPAA Privacy Training Key personnel who will be conducting research involving Protected Health Information (PHI) must also complete the online HIPAA Research (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) training course in RASCAL prior to participation in the research. Read additional information about HIPAA privacy training or contact Karen Pagliaro-Meyer, Privacy Officer, at [email protected]. For additional information on CU Human Research Protection Program, you can call (212) 851-7040. See links to both the MS and CUMC IRB. Clinical Trials Office FDA Sponsor-Investigator Training The Sponsor-Investigator Training Program for faculty members who are Sponsor-Investigators in clinical studies was initiated to outline the FDA requirements for holding an IND or IDE. Any new IND or IDE holders will be required to complete the Training Program. The training and assessment are available in the Rascal Training Center: TC0096 – FDA Requirements of Sponsor-Investigator Studies. See the Rascal Training Center Homepage. Clinical Research Coordinator Training Program The mandatory training course and assessment for Clinical Research Coordinators is available in the RASCAL Training Center. The training course is a requirement for all research personnel who participate in clinical human subjects research that involves more than minimal risk and who are designated under “Personnel Staff” on any Rascal Human Subjects Protocol Data Sheet as having one of the following roles: Study Coordinator, Research Coordinator, Research Nurse, Regulatory Coordinator, Data Manager, or Research Assistant. The IRB may not approve an initial protocol or a modification or renewal of an existing protocol unless the Data Sheet indicates that all such CRCs have completed the CRC Training Program. The CRC Training Program can be accessed through the RASCAL Training Center. Course TC0098: Clinical Research Coordinator Mandatory Training If you have questions about this new requirement, please contact the Clinical Trials Office at [email protected] or the IRB at [email protected]. Animal Compliance Training Animal Compliance Training The Institute of Comparative Medicine (ICM) at Columbia University has over 110 employees, comprised of veterinarians, licensed veterinary technicians, skilled animal care staff, and financial/administrative support staff. ICM’s mission is to ensure the humane care of animals used in approved research and to support the research community at Columbia University. Please see the ICM website for more information. Columbia University’s Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) is committed to facilitating quality animal research that is conducted in an ethical and responsible manner to further science and to improve human and animal health. Please see the IACUC website for more information. To learn more about conducting animal research at Columbia University, please see the Animal Research Handbook. Environmental Health and Safety EH&S Trainings The Office of Environmental Health and Safety has many training courses available. Read more about EH&S Trainings. For additional information on Environmental Health and Safety training, please contact Kathleen Crowley at [email protected]. Submit a compliance report Hotline (866) 627-3768 24 hours a day / 7 days a week Anonymous reporting available Online File a report online Office of University Compliance91 Claremont Ave., Suite 516 · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close