Skip to main content Chief Compliance Office UCR Home departments & programs Audit Office of Title IX, Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Investigations & Complaint Resolution UC Ethics & Compliance Program Clery Act Compliance Search UC Riverside Compliance Integrity and Accountability Search Home Complaint Resolution & Investigations Policies Delegations Conflicts of Interest Privacy Program Title IX/EOAA UCR Home departments & programs Audit Office of Title IX, Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Investigations & Complaint Resolution UC Ethics & Compliance Program Clery Act Compliance Chief Compliance Office Breadcrumb Our office in 365 Skye Hall is open for walk-in visitors Monday through Thursday, 7:30am - 12pm, 1pm - 4:30pm and by appointment Monday through Friday, 8:30am - 5:30pm. To schedule an appointment, please contact us at ldo@ucr.edu. *Per the COVID-19 campus policy, please wear a mask when visiting an indoor office regardless of your vaccination status. × Compliance & Ethics Principles Federal law and UC policies are the foundation of our work The Required Elements of a Compliance Program The Required Elements of a Compliance Program Statement of Ethical Values & Standards of Ethical Conduct Learn More (pdf) Previous Next Compliance Functions departments, programs and functions within the Chief Compliance organization: ethics and compliance UCR's Chief Compliance Officer coordinates the campus's efforts under the University of California's ethics and compliance program plan. The Chief Compliance Office also manages certain compliance functions: Clery Act Conflicts of Interest Policy Program Delegations of Authority Privacy Program Learn more about UC's ethics and compliance program and the role of the campus Chief Compliance Officer on UCR's ethics and compliance site. investigations The Chief Compliance Officer is UCR's Locally Designated Official, responsible for whistleblower and whistleblower protection investigations. The Compliance Office's Fact-Finding Team conducts investigations for UCR. Looking for help with a complaint or report, and not sure who to contact? Try the interactive website help@ucr discrimination and harassment prevention and response Departments and functions within the Chief Compliance organization support UCR's efforts to create an inclusive, accessible campus free from discrimination and harassment: The Office of Title IX, EO & AA coordinates UCR's efforts to prevent and respond to all forms of discrimination and harassment, as well as other behavior prohibited by UCR's Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation Complaint and Resolution Policy, and the UC Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment Policy. The Office also coordinates the campus's affirmative action programs and produces the annual AA plans. Visit the Title IX/EOAA website for more information on how UCR lives the commitment to an equitable, accessible campus experience for faculty, students and staff. The Fact-Finding team conducts investigations of discrimination and harassment complaints (as well as whistleblower and other complaints). audit and advisory services Audit and Advisory Services conducts audits and consultations to evaluate and promote the system of internal controls, including effective and efficient operations. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Chief Compliance Office 365 Skye Hall 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-6223 Related Links Title IX at UCR UC Office of Ethics, Compliance and Audit Services Whistleblower Hotline (Systemwide) Newsletter Sign up for our monthly newsletter. E-mail address: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel