Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Compliance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Hotline Contacts Code Policies Minors ID Theft Prevention Resources Training About Us Program Statement of Ethical Conduct and Administrative Code of Conduct University Compliance You are here: Home Hotline Hotline Reporting a Compliance Concern The Hotline serves as a channel to report or seek guidance on possible compliance issues. It is accessible by phone and online with the option to report anonymously. It is available to all members of the University community, including faculty, staff, and students. It is supported by a third-party vendor and staffed by professionals. Columbia expects members of the University community to inform the appropriate contacts if they have observed unethical, illegal, or suspicious activity. Those who have concerns about possible noncompliance with federal, state, local laws or regulations, University policies, or other improper conduct are expected to report promptly. Non-Retaliation Policy The University prohibits retaliation against those who report compliance or ethics concerns in good faith. Read the full Non-Retaliation Policy. How do I submit a Compliance Report? phone icon By Phone Toll Free: (866)-627-3768 24 hours a day / 7 days a week Anonymous reporting available Operated by a third-party provider globe icon By Internet Submit a report online IF THIS IS AN EMERGENCY: This web submission form should not be used for situations requiring immediate attention. Any allegations relating to a threat against a person(s), property or the environment should be directed immediately to Columbia University Public Safety at (212) 854 – 5555. The office is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If the threat is imminent, you should also consider calling 911. Expand all Collapse all Who should use the Compliance Hotline? Members of the University community, including faculty, staff, and students who have concerns about possible noncompliance with federal, state, local laws or regulations, University policies, or other improper conduct are expected to report promptly. The University prohibits retaliation against individuals who report or seek guidance on possible ethical or compliance issues in good faith. What types of information will I need to submit a report? A report submission initiates a formal investigation process. In order to ensure that Columbia has enough information to conduct a proper investigation, you will be asked to provide the following types of information: Type of Issue: You will be asked to select a category that best fits your issue. Persons Involved: You will be asked to provide your name and contact information unless you choose to remain anonymous. You will also need to provide Information on any people involved in the incident. Incident Details: You will be asked to provide basic information regarding the incident. Attachments: You may attach files related to the issue being reported. Any attachments are submitted with the report as a permanent record. Case Identification Number After you file your report, you will be provided a case identification number. How do I receive a status update on a submitted Compliance Report or provide additional information? You can follow up on an existing Compliance Hotline Report or provide additional information. The phone number and web address are the same for a follow-up report as an initial report (see above). You will need your case identification number to check the status of a previously submitted report. On the web, select the “By Internet, Submit a Report Online” and then the “Submit a Follow-Up” report at the bottom of the page. Office of University Compliance91 Claremont Ave., Suite 516 · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close