Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences Comparative Literature & Literary Theory Toggle navigation Search Search Search Main navigation About People Faculty Staff Current Graduate Students Retired Faculty Alumnx Graduate Graduate Handbook SAST-COML Joint Degree Requirements Intensive Reading Funding Opportunities Job Placement How to Apply Undergraduate Major Minor Courses News Events Upcoming Events Past Events Contact Home We study literary and cultural representation across linguistic and national boundaries. We approach literary and cultural study with a keen awareness of critical theory. Literature is news that stays news. Literature is the most agreeable way of ignoring life. The purpose of literature is to turn blood into ink. Our lives are all different and yet the same. Previous Next Graduate Undergraduate Faculty Past Events Cory Knudson to defend dissertation May 27 May 27, 2022 Cory Knudson to defend dissertation May 27 Bryan Norton to defend dissertation on April 22 April 22, 2022 Bryan will be defending his dissertation on Friday, April 22. Collaborator, Translator, Constructor with Joy Connolly April 21, 2022 Collaborator, Translator A. Véronique Charles to defend dissertation April 21 April 21, 2022 Véronique will be defending her dissertation on Thursday, April 21. News Rachel Salas Rivera's poem is title for Whitney Museum's exhibit no existe un mundo poshuracán: Puerto Rican Art in the Wake of Hurricane Maria May 26, 2022 no existe un mundo poshuracán: Puerto Rican Art in the Wake of Hurricane Maria is organi Anat Dan and Anirudh Karnick awarded grants from The Sachs Program in Arts Innovation May 16, 2022 Two Comparative Literature graduate students Anat Dan and Anirudh Karnick were recipients for the Comparative Literature Students awarded The Arthur M. Daemmrich and Alfred Guenther Memorial Prize April 21, 2022 Three graduate students in Comparative Literature were awarded The Arthur M. Publications Pagination Previous page Next page Publications Pagination Previous page Next page College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Contact Us Comparative Literature 720 Williams Hall Philadelphia, PA 19104 Emily Wilson Graduate Chair Rita Barnard Undergraduate Chair JoAnne Dubil Program Coordinator Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn Weblogin