Skip to main content University of Wisconsin–Madison UW Crest Office of Compliance University of Wisconsin-Madison Search Menu open menu close Home Focus Areas Expand Collapse Civil Rights ADA Equal Opportunity Complaint Investigation HIPAA Public Records Sexual Misconduct (Title IX) Focus Area Training Who We Are News Compliance Matrix Sustainability UW Home MyUW UW Search Land Acknowledgement Home Sexual Misconduct Resource and Response Program Sexual Misconduct Resource and Response Program The Sexual Misconduct Resource and Response Program (formerly called the Title IX Program) is overseen by the Title IX Coordinator. We receive reports of sexual harassment and sexual violence – including sexual assault, dating/domestic violence, stalking, and sexual exploitation – and coordinate the University’s response. Below you will find information about available support resources for students and employees, as well as options for university response and investigations. UW-Madison Policy on Sexual Harassment and Sexual Violence The mission of the University of Wisconsin-Madison (university) is to provide a teaching, learning and working environment in which faculty, staff, students, and guests can discover, examine critically, preserve, and transmit knowledge, wisdom, and values that will improve the quality of life for all. To promote the institutional mission, the university is committed to creating and maintaining a campus community that is free from sexual harassment and sexual violence. The UW-Madison Policy on Sexual Harassment and Sexual Violence applies to students, employees, visitors and guests. (For conduct alleged to have occurred prior to August 14, 2020, a prior version of the policy will apply). This is an accordion element with a series of buttons that open and close related content panels. Expand allCollapse all Prohibited Conduct Sexual Harassment Sexual Assault Dating Violence Domestic Violence Stalking Sexual Exploitation Retaliation Providing false information to a reporting or investigatory office Refusal to comply with a reasonable request on a university matter Supporting Law & Policy Title IX of the Education Amendments (1972) The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Crime Statistics Act (1991) The Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 Violence Against Women Act (1994) UWS Chapter 4 UWS Chapter 11 UWS Chapter 17 Wisconsin Statute § 36.11(22)(c) Governor’s Executive Order #54 UW Regent Policy Document 14-2 Previous Policy Versions: January 2018 – August 2020 UW-Madison Policy Sexual Harassment and Sexual Violence August 2020 – June 2021 Interim UW-Madison Policy on Sexual Harassment and Sexual Violence Report Sexual Misconduct Click this button to bring you to an information page about reporting. About Sexual Misconduct (Title IX) Program Overview More Reporting Requirements More Student Support Information More Employee Support Information More Respondent Information More Response & Investigation Options More Trainings More Youth Protection & Compliance More Updates More Contact UW–Madison Title IX Coordinator More Deputy Coordinators More Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Resources Dean of Students Office Division of Diversity, Equity and Educational Achievement Office of Legal Affairs Office of Human Resources UW Police Department Quick Links Accessibility Diversity Governance Policies Safety Sexual Misconduct (Title IX) Contact Us 361 Bascom Hall 500 Lincoln Drive Madison, WI 53706 Hours: Mon-Fri, 7:45am-4:30pm Relay calls accepted. Email: uwcomplianceoffice@wisc.edu Phone: (608) 265-6018 Website feedback, questions or accessibility issues: uwcomplianceoffice@wisc.edu. Learn more about accessibility at UW–Madison. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.