Skip to main content Left arrow Barnard.edu Open Search Close What is Comp Lit? Back History People Back Office Hours Curriculum & Courses Back Course Offerings Major and Minor Seniors Study Abroad Alumnae Back Thesis Title Archive Publications by Alumnae Left arrow Barnard.edu Search for: Search All of Barnard.edu Comparative Literature & Translation Studies Welcome! Comparative Literature & Translation Studies Spring '22 Program Planning Meeting Tuesday, April 19th 12:00-1:00pm Milstein LL018 and by Zoom Email Sondra Phifer for Zoom link Spring 2022 Course Schedule Trees of Knowledge - New Course! Spring 2022 Schedule Celebrating Barnard Authors: Nancy Worman Congratulations to Professor Nancy Worman on winning the Classics category of the Association of American Publishers (AAP) 2022 PROSE Awards for her new book, Tragic Bodies: Edges of the Human in Greek Drama. Click to learn more Celebrating Barnard Authors: Emily Sun View the recording of the panel discussion event of Professor Emily Sun's New Book! Continue to video What is Comparative Literature? Comparative literature is dedicated to the study of literature in an international and interdisciplinary context. Majors read widely across periods, genres, and national traditions. They study literature and culture from various parts of the world to develop knowledge and critical understanding of how cultures differ from as well as connect and interact with one another through the medium of artistic expression. Our Definition Our Program History Step-by-Step Program Planning Prospective Students Pre-college, First-Years, and Sophomores Learn about the field and study of Comparative Literature and Translations at Barnard. Declared Comp Lit Major Sophomores and Juniors Just declared your major? Congrats! Here are the next steps... Senior Year Comp Lit Seniors Our extensive guide to your senior year. Publications by our Alumnae PUBLISHED! Staff READ MORE ABOUT OUR ALUMNAE Contact Us Department Assistant Sondra Phifer sphifer@barnard.edu 212-854-8312 Mailing Address Comparative Literature & Translation Studies 320 Milbank Hall 3009 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Site Footer Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University