Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Communication Studies Program Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Donate Home Academics Undergraduate Study Course Descriptions Learning Outcomes Comm. Studies Club Alumni Directory News Home Communication is at the heart of our interpersonal relationships, workplace endeavors, and intercultural encounters. If you have ever wondered why there are so many communication breakdowns in your workplace or how you could have communicated in a way to reach a different outcome in your family or romantic relationships, studying communication might be right for you. Undergraduate Study Our students are engaged and active in their communities and heavily involved in campus life. Communication Studies Majors seek to have a positive impact on the world while recognizing that communication is a powerful and positive conduit for change. The Communication Studies Curriculum nicely blends theory and practice. In their classes, students learn different ways of thinking about communication and put that knowledge to use through creating and implementing training programs, developing and executing fundraising events, forming online communities, and adding to our knowledge of communication through individual research projects. Learn more or contact an advisor. Learn more about Communication Studies! Latest News Honoring COMST Spring 2022 Graduates! COMST End-of-the-Semester Celebration! Student Spotlight: Dani Jarosz Alumni Update: Maeve McGuire Student Spotlights Student Spotlight: Dani Jarosz Student Spotlight: Emelia Lowe Faculty Focus Faculty Focus: Dr. Tina Coffelt Faculty Focus: Dr. Katherine Rafferty Why study communication at Iowa State? A Social Science Learn to think critically and develop and implement evidence-based research strategies to address complex communication issues. Learn From Experts Our nationally recognized faculty share their expertise both in the classroom and through training and consultation with university and community organizations. Apply Your Learning Serve the community and collaborate with faculty to produce new knowledge. Vision Statement The Communication Studies program at Iowa State University aims to be a top tier research-based undergraduate program. We aspire to gain national recognition for scholarship that advances the understanding of human communication. We seek to empower students to effectively assess and address the communication challenges of our ever-changing world. Mission Statement The Communication Studies program is the primary academic unit at ISU that advances the understanding of human communication with a particular focus on interpersonal, small group, organizational, and intercultural communication. Our program provides a liberal arts education following a social science tradition. We teach students how to think critically and develop and implement evidence-based research strategies to address complex communication issues. We provide students with opportunities to apply their learning through serving the community and collaborating with faculty to produce new knowledge. In keeping with the focus of the program, faculty conduct nationally recognized research to advance the understanding of human communication. Faculty communication expertise is shared both in the classroom and through training and consultation with university and community organizations. Learning Outcomes Department of Liberal Arts and Sciences Communication Studies Program Communication Studies Program 357 Carver Hall Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011-1010, Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...