Skip to main content Javascript is currently disabled on your browser. Please enable Javascript for a better experience. USU Home A-Z Index MyUSU Directory Search Search (435) 797-8223Contact Us Toggle navigation (435) 797-8223 Contact Us Home About How Does it Work Policies Broadcast Courses Informational Flyer Registration Adding Courses Dropping Courses Recover A-Number Viewing Grades View/Order Transcripts For Counselors Course Information Dropping / Withdrawing from a Course Annual District/USU Contract Alliance Reports Policies Exception to Policy/Late Add Form Academic Record Adjustment (ARA) Form For Instructors General Information New Face to Face Instructors New Broadcast Instructors Banner Grade Entry Online Resources Advising Bridge Program Bridge Program and USU Pathways State Bridge Program Information 2021-2022 REGISTRATION DEADLINESPriority Registration Info View Dates Registration Opens 1st Tri Aug 9 2nd Tri Nov 1 3rd Tri Feb 7 Fall Sem Aug 9 Spring Sem Dec 20 Year-Long Aug 9 Last Day to Add Without Late Fee 1st Tri Sep 17 2nd Tri Dec 17 3rd Tri Mar 25 Fall Sem Sep 24 Spring Sem Feb 18 Year-Long Oct 22 Last Day to Add or Drop 1st Tri Oct 22 2nd Tri Jan 21 3rd Tri Apr 22 Fall Sem Nov 12 Spring Sem Apr 8 Year-Long Feb 25 Registration Opens Last Day to Add Without Late Fee Last Day to Add or Drop 1st Tri Aug 9 Sep 17 Oct 22 2nd Tri Nov 1 Dec 17 Jan 21 3rd Tri Feb 7 Mar 25 Apr 22 Fall Sem Aug 9 Sep 24 Nov 12 Spring Sem Dec 20 Feb 18 Apr 8 Year Long Aug 9 Oct 22 Feb 25 Home USU Concurrent Enrollment USU Concurrent Enrollment Registration Step 1: Apply Apply for admission Pay the $50 fee Only apply once Apply Now Step 2: Password Receive the student's A-Number via email Create a password Create Password Step 3: Register Select courses (Don't wait; late registrations are $100/course) Register Now Step 4: Pay Pay the tuition (Don't wait; late payments incur a $15 fee) Pay Tuition Home How Does it Work Adding Courses Course Information General Information Advising Bridge Program and USU Pathways Map © Utah State University Privacy Safety Ethics & Compliance Hotline Accessibility Non-discrimination Website Feedback Analytics × Register for Classes Have you completed the Concurrent Enrollment admission's application and paid the $50 fee? Yes No Has the student received his or her A-Number? Yes No Wait for A-Number After completing the admission's application and paying the $50 fee, within 3 business days the student should receive an email with his or her A-Number. Otherwise, please call (435) 797-8223. Have you gone to myid.usu.edu, created the student's password and waited at least 15 minutes? Yes No Login to Register You will now be sent to a USU login page where you will be asked to login with the student's A-Number and password that you created previously. After logging in you will be asked to select the student's high school and semester/term. (If you did not wait at least 15 minutes after creating your password you may not be able to log in.)Go to Login Create Password You will now be sent to myid.usu.edu where you will create a password for the student's A-Number.Create Password Where does the student attend high school? In Utah Outside of Utah Application Needed You will now be sent to the State of Utah's Concurrent Enrollment Participation Form. Within 2 to 3 business days after completing the form and paying the $50 fee, the student will be emailed his or her A-Number along with the next steps to follow to create his or her password.Go to Form USU is committed to a learning and working environment free from discrimination. See USU's non-discrimination notice for more information. Have you started an application yet? Yes No Application Needed You will now be sent to the USU Admissions site where you will create an admission's account and then complete a USU Concurrent Enrollment Application. Within 2 to 3 business days of completing the application and paying the $50 fee, the student will be emailed an A-Number along with the next steps to follow.Go to Application Application Needed You will now be sent to the USU Admissions site where you can login and complete your USU Concurrent Enrollment Application. Within 2 to 3 business days of completing the application and paying the $50 fee, the student will be emailed an A-Number along with the next steps to follow.Go to Application × Priority Registration USU policy allows higher grade students (those closer to graduation) the ability to register before lower grade students, high school seniors and juniors therefore are allowed to register 3 weeks before the first day of class. Sophomores and freshmen, whose counselors have submitted their 4 year PCCR plans explaining why those students need to take CE courses in the freshman or sophomore year, will be able to register into sections with available seats on the first day of class.