Student Affairs departments are open for full or partial in-person services this fall. Please check the Student Affairs homepage for hours, service offerings, and contact methods. For the latest campus reopening plans, safety guidelines, and requirements, visit Campus Return. × Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People Search UC Riverside Student Conduct & Academic Integrity Programs Search Home For Students Conduct Process Student Rights in the Conduct Process Sanction Information Hazing Information Student Organizations For Faculty and Staff Reporting Academic Misconduct Reporting Social Misconduct Working with Students of Concern Faculty Resources Policies Standards of Conduct Adjudication for Sexual Misconduct Administration of the Standards of Conduct Academic Integrity Policies & Procedures Good Neighbor Guidelines Reporting Sexual Assault Other Campus Policies Forms and Brochures Student Organization Workshop Sanctions FERPA/Student Conduct Record Release Getting Involved Faculty and Staff Involvement Student Conduct Advisor Program FAQ Contact Us UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People Breadcrumb Previous Next What Does Student Conduct & Academic Integrity Programs (SCAIP) Do? We support a respectful, safe community by enforcing student conduct policies, reviewing misconduct cases, and assigning educational sanctions where necessary. We educate students about their rights, hold them accountable for their responsibilities, and support their ethical growth. Learn more about SCAIP's mission and meet our staff by visiting the Contact Us page. Take Me To: Policies & Procedures Academic Integrity Policies | Academic Integrity definitions beginning on page 54 | Standards of Conduct | Conduct Process | Good Neighbor Guidelines Academic Misconduct Report Academic Misconduct Social Misconduct Report Social Misconduct | Hazing Information | Student Organizations | Sexual Violence Prevention and Response Questions Frequently Asked Questions Protect Yourself, Your Family, School, and Community Take the Pledge to Keep Highlanders Healthy Read the pledge It is expected that all students adhere to health and safety policies. Read the Policy Here for You, Always Student Affairs is here to support you throughout the campus closure. Connect File a Report Select the button below to file a report on academic misconduct, social misconduct, a student behavioral concern, or a concern about an off-campus organization. Public Incident Report For Students See conduct information specifically for students. Conduct Information Visit counseling Take the Pledge to Stop Sexual Assault Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Student Conduct & Academic Integrity Programs 102 Costo Hall Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-4208 fax: (951) 827-7849 email: conduct@ucr.edu Find Us Disclaimer The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) requires UCR (as an institution of higher education receiving federal financial aid) to report specified crime statistics on college campuses and to provide other safety and crime information to all current and prospective students and employees. The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available on the Chief Compliance Office website. If you would like a paper copy of the Report, you may contact the Clery Coordinator via email at clery@ucr.edu or by phone at (951) 827-6223. Related Links Dean of Students UC Police Department Title IX Student Life Office of the Ombuds Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel