Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Our Groups Our Mission Our Neighborhood Our Campus Campus Partners Employment Opportunities Planning Your Event Lodging Solutions and Rates Meeting Spaces and Rates Food and Beverage Amenities Parking and Transportation Camp & Conference Reservation Requests Summer Intern Housing Summer Intern Housing Program Availability and Pricing About Miami and UM Apply for Summer Intern Housing Contact Summer Intern Housing Contact Us About Us Planning Your Event Camp & Conference Reservation Requests Summer Intern Housing Contact Us Search About Us Our Groups Our Mission Our Neighborhood Our Campus Campus Partners Employment Opportunities Planning Your Event Lodging Solutions and Rates Meeting Spaces and Rates Food and Beverage Amenities Parking and Transportation Camp & Conference Reservation Requests Summer Intern Housing Summer Intern Housing Program Availability and Pricing About Miami and UM Apply for Summer Intern Housing Contact Summer Intern Housing Contact Us Our Mission Our Neighborhood Our Campus Contact Us Campus Partners Calendar Help About Us Planning Your Event Camp & Conference Reservation Requests Summer Intern Housing Contact Us Home About Conference Services Events and Calendar Help AAA Events and Calendar Help The University of Miami is a busy place with a large and diverse quantity of activities every day. University events take place not just at our incredible venues and campuses, but also online and all over the world, and the Central Calendar is the website to discover it all. Not only is the Central Calendar a great tool for finding things to do, but it also makes it easy for you to share your own group's events with the rest of the 'Canes Community. Whether you're a student looking to get involved, a sports fan ready to cheer on the Hurricanes, or a faculty/staff member wanting to get the word out about your event, we've got you covered. This website presents as many of the events that we can share in one place. The University uses Event and Conference Management Software to submit events and reserve space. You'll find that each calendar page on this site also leads to the major sites for UM's colleges, schools, and administrative areas. If you don't find a specific event, try browsing to an area's website for more event information. How do I submit an event to the calendar? Events can be submitted to the calendar using the online submission form. Enter as much information as you can and click ‘Submit an Event.’ You can always make changes to any events you add. Event Name, description, and date are required, however, the more information you enter, the better your event page will be. Once a submission is completed, it gets approved and can appear on our calendars. If you are not a University student, faculty, or staff member and are interested in reserving or renting a space, you can still use EMS to search for space that can be reserved or rented for private events. You can also contact the Office of Conference Services for more assistance. To ensure maximum exposure for event listings, please submit the listing at least two weeks ahead of the event date. This allows time for review and posting. *If your department needs an internal calendar, please email ecms@miami.edu for possible solutions. Location-Based You can easily view all upcoming events at a particular location. "Follow" the place and never miss an event. Each event on the Central Calendar has an embedded Google Map to give you access to directions. Powerful Search The search box can help users find events, places, people, and departments/groups. The Central Calendar uses filters to help users find exactly what events they are interested in. Calendar Widgets Put your department or group calendar on any website. The Central Calendar uses a simple widget builder to customize the type and style you want and allows you to copy/paste a script. For help with widgets email webmaster@miami.edu. Guidelines The Central Calendar is for events organized, hosted, sponsored or cosponsored by the University of Miami units, departments, colleges, schools, centers and institutes, alumni organizations, and official registered student organizations. Who Can Submit Events? Events are automatically fed into the Central Calendar using integrations to Engage. However, should an event not be published on the Central Calendar, University of Miami faculty, staff, and students can log in with their CaneID and password to submit events. All calendar event listings are visible publicly, without the need to create an account or sign in. Users only need an account if they wish to contribute to the calendar. What if I find a listing that is incorrect or incomplete? Check the "Contact" information on the event. Most events will provide a means of contacting the person responsible for the event directly, once they know about the incorrect information, they can correct the listing online. For more assistance, contact the Office of Conference Services. What is "ECMS"? ECMS is the Events and Conference Management Software suite used to manage reservations and event listings at the University of Miami. Our system pulls information from that service to create our calendar lists and pages. What is the difference between the "events.miami.edu" website and the "Central Calendar"? You may notice links to something called "Central Calendar." Central Calendar is powered by Localist, a content management system that aggregates University events. What happened to the "'Canes Calendar"? The 'Canes Calendar was a name we gave to our old University Web calendar. It has been replaced by this website. Sometimes people call this website the 'Canes Calendar out of habit. Feedback/Need Help? If you would like further training or cannot find what you need, have comments, or questions? Email ecms@miami.edu to let us know. Frequently Asked Questions Open All Tabs Who can post events to the Central Calendar? This is a resource for all to utilize and contribute to. Who oversees the Central Calendar? The Office of Conference Services manages and maintains the Central Calendar. Please contact use at ecms@miami.edu for questions about the calendar. For all other inquiries to our office please email conferences@miami.edu What kinds of events should be posted on the calendar? The Central Calendar is for events organized, hosted, sponsored or cosponsored by University of Miami units, departments, colleges, schools, centers and institutes, alumni organizations, and official registered student organizations. How many events can be on the calendar? There is no limit to the number of events that can be added and stored on the platform. The more quality events, the better! Do I need to enter events in the Central Calendar in addition to my department or group’s calendar? Centralization of information is one of the top priorities for the Office of Conference Services. You can create events once in the Central Calendar and publish them anywhere you’d like with tools such as Widgets. That said, any event submitted on Engage will not need to submit events to the Central Calendar as they are already synced each night. Why are past events still visible in the Calendar? Past events provide a unique insight into our campus, culture, and community. Even though your event has passed, it is still important to the UM story! Having your event accessible after the fact helps provide context for what your audience may expect in the future. What is Localist? Localist is the name for the content management system that powers the Central Calendar. What information is required when submitting an event? Only the “Event Name” and “Start Date” are required fields. However, the more information you provide, the better exposure your event will receive. Why didn’t the image I provided for my event appear once the event was published? If the image you submit contains a significant amount of text, the image will be removed before the event is published. Text on images breaks accessibility guidelines. Text should instead be included within the event description and other fields. Event flyers are not appropriate for the image field. I did not select an image for my event. Why is there one included in the event listing? Images help the visibility of event listings, so the Campus Calendar is set to assign one by default if an image is not provided. Depending on the information included in your event listing, the Calendar may display a photo of the location of the event or the logo of the unit hosting the event. Should I “tag” other departments or groups who might be interested in my event? Only if they are a co-sponsor of the event, or if you have permission from those groups. Why am I unable to edit an event from my department/group? In most cases, it is because someone else submitted the event. The person who submitted the event listing is designated as the event “owner.” Only that person or a calendar admin is able to make changes. Contact ecms@miami.edu if you need us to make an edit and/or reassign the event owner. An event unrelated to my department is showing up in my department’s Calendar listings. How can I get it removed? Contact ecms@miami.edu, and we will remove your department from the event listing. The name of my department/group has changed. How do I update it in the Calendar? Contact ecms@miami.edu with the corrected information and we will update it. My department/group is not listed in the Calendar. How do I get it added? Contact ecms@miami.edu, and we will add your area. How can I add a Calendar widget to my department’s website? The Central Calendar provides a widget builder to help. The widget builder offers a lot of options – both in styling and in customizing exactly what sort of events you want to pull. Please work with the UM Webmaster or your area’s web specialist to insert the resulting embed code into your website. My unit is technically not a “department.” Is there another way to designate it? The Central Calendar provides classifications for “departments” (official internal units) and “groups” (organizations, councils, committees). There is no separate designation for schools, centers, institutes, etc. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Conference Services 1280 Stanford Drive, Office 1M056 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5742 305-284-5742 conferences@miami.edu UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Connect social-facebook Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices