This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. In-Person Group Tours Our UH Student Ambassadors are eager to welcome you to the University of Houston—in person—to see for yourself what life is like on campus! Our in-person group tours are approximately 90-minutes. To register, use the button below to select the date and time that works best with your group's schedule. Once you are registered, you will be able to add the event to your calendar and will receive a text and an email. At this time, we are only able to provide group tours to groups of students 9th - 12th grade and prospective transfer students. We are able to provide in-person tours to groups up to 60 people, including chaperones. If your group does not meet these criteria, we recommend registering for a virtual group visit! Group Dining Options: Student Center South has a variety of retail options, such as McDonalds or Chic FIl A. If you'd like to eat at an on-campus dining hall, please contact Terry Pierce at terry.pierce@compass-usa.com. Moody Dining Commons is the ideal dining location for an on-campus dining experience, and you can get directions to Moody Dining Towers here. Please Note: Moody Dining Commons will be closed from May 12th to May 26th, 2022. Connect with an Academic College If you'd like to connect with a specific academic college on your visit, follow the instructions below. College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences is not hosting group tours at this time. For more information about the college, visit our webpage. Hobby School of Public Affairs To set up a meeting with the Hobby School of Public Affairs, please reach out directly to Scott Mason at smason@uh.edu College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics To set up a meeting with the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, please reach out directly to Michelle Nodskov at nsmyear1@cougarnet.uh.edu C. T. Bauer College of Business To set up a meeting with the Bauer School of Business, please reach out directly to Brian Moreno at bmoreno@central.uh.edu College of Architecture and Design The College of Architecture and Design is not hosting group tours at this time. For more information about the college, visit our webpage. Cullen College of Engineering To set up a meeting with the College of Engineering, please reach out directly to Dana Seibert at daseibe2@central.uh.edu Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership To set up a meeting with the Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management, please fill out our high school visit request form, or email HRMrecruitment@uh.edu Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts The College of the Arts is not hosting group tours at this time. For more information about the college, visit our webpage. College of Technology To set up a meeting with the College of Technology, please reach out directly to cotundergrad@uh.edu College of Education The College of the Education is not hosting group tours at this time. For more information about the college, visit our webpage. College of Nursing The College of the Nursing is not hosting group tours at this time. For more information about the college, visit our webpage. Exploratory Studies Exploratory Studies is not hosting group tours at this time. For more information about this program, visit our webpage. Use the below calendar to select your preferred date to visit based on the above options. Once you've selected a date, click your preferred available time that appears below the calendar. Thank you for your interest, we can't wait to meet you! Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies