This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Virtual Group Campus Tours Group virtual visits are just as interactive as on-campus visit experiences and can be customized to your group. Typically, group virtual visits last one hour and include the following activities led by UH Student Ambassadors: 20-minute admissions presentation that includes a brief overview of the university, academic opportunities, campus life, and the admissions process 20-minute virtual guided student life tour covering campus hot spots, including a sneak peek into Cougar Village II, our most popular freshman residence hall 10-minute question and answer session Use the below calendar to select your preferred date to visit based on the above options. Once you've selected a date, click your preferred available time that appears below the calendar. Thank you for your interest, we can't wait to meet you! Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies