About The Center FCRC Projects FCRC Services Staff and Contact Info Resources Search and Contents What Can the Consensus Center do for you? Collaboration Issue Assessment and Design Collaborative Meeting and Process Facilitation Public Outreach and Engagement Strategic Planning and Organizational Consultation Visioning Collaboration Skills Training Message From The Director "How” matters. When seeking shared solutions, “how” you go about the task can make a big difference. Finding the best path to lasting, shared solutions is at the core of the FCRC Consensus Center’s mission. We serve as an independent public center facilitating consensus solutions and supporting collaborative action. The Center provides a range of professional services to help leaders, stakeholders and citizens to work together, innovate, build consensus and implement quality solutions. The Center was created by the Florida Legislature in 1987 and placed in our independent home at Florida State University. Many of our early successes were the result of mediating conflict to break impasse and gridlock on public issues. Today many of our projects focus on enhancing and documenting collaborative leadership and facilitating stakeholder planning that results in the implementation of consensus plans and actions. In hundreds of projects over the past 27 years, we have assisted public, private and NGO leaders, agencies and organizations on a wide array of national, state, regional and local issues. We have demonstrated that leaders, stakeholders and citizens with diverse perspectives can work together to move past their positions and differences and build common ground for consensus solutions. My experienced staff and I remain committed to building the collaborative capacity among leaders, stakeholders and citizens that can enable them to produce both quality and lasting consensus solutions for our communities going forward. --Robert Jones, Director, FCRC Consensus Center Florida Civic Advance Florida Civic Advance Web Page New from the FCRC FCRC Leadership Newsletter January 2016 (PDF) The University's Role in Collaborative Processes Remarks by William D. Ruckelshaus (PCI / Ruckelshaus Center Workshop, April 2007) If the above video does not work, you can view the video on YouTube here More leadership and collaboration videos on our Videos Page FCRC on LinkedIn The FCRC Consensus Center LinkedIn Group has information and discussion of recent trends in consensus building. If you are a member of LinkedIn you can comment on recent article posted in our group. If you are not a member, you are welcome to read the articles without commenting, or sign in. Direct Link to the Post © Florida State University | FCRC Bylaws