Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Constitution Day Celebration Search form Search Constitution Day Constitution Day Constitution Day A Message from the Chancellor Overview Constitutional Amendments Separation of Powers The Legislative Branch The Executive Branch Events Previous Events - 2020 Previous Events - 2019 Menu Constitution Day Constitution Day Constitution Day A Message from the Chancellor Overview Constitutional Amendments Separation of Powers The Legislative Branch The Executive Branch Events Previous Events - 2020 Previous Events - 2019 Search Search form Search Home Constitution Day Constitution Day Events Constitution Day A Message from the Chancellor Overview Constitutional Amendments Separation of Powers The Legislative Branch The Executive Branch Events Previous Events - 2020 Previous Events - 2019 Events Constitution Day at Memorial Stadium: (Pre-Game) Date: Saturday, September 18, 2021 Time: 2:30 p.m. Kansas Jayhawks vs. Baylor Bears Kansas University Memorial Stadium KU fans are invited to recite the Preamble to the Constitution before the Jayhawks face their opponents. The Preamble will be displayed on the video board in the stadium. Chancellor Douglas Girod will lead the recitation while Elizabeth Berghout, carillonneur, rings the bells from the Campanile. Following the Preamble, the Marching Jayhawks will play the national anthem. Annual Constitution Day Program at the Dole Institute of Politics Dole Institute of Politics 7:00 p.m. Thursday, September 16, 2021 Hansen Hall, Dole Institute of Politics As we continue to go through the worst pandemic in more than a century, there has been increased debate on whether the State can enforce health mandates—such as masking, social distancing and vaccines—as a legal matter. Lumen Mulligan, KU Law Professor will moderate a question and answer discussion featuring Clay Britton, Chief Counsel to Governor Kelly, Sharon Brett, Legal Director, ACLU of Kansas and Brant Laue, Solicitor General of Kansas. Events Constitution Day at Memorial Stadium Saturday, September 18, 2021 Constitution Day at Memorial Stadium Thursday, September 16, 2021 Event Details About the Area Friendly folks. A big city vibe. Discover all that’s great about Lawrence. Lawrence, Kan. A beautiful, hilly campus is just one reason why Jayhawks fall in love with KU. Find out more. The University Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Constitution Day Celebration 785-864-2700 The University of Kansas Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login