COVID-19 The latest Information about COVID-19 Home Join Us Contact Us Log In University of Miami Division of Continuing and International Education About Message from the Dean Locations & Directions Administration Registration & Policies News & Events Contact Us Professional Certificates Business and Communications Certified Professional Coach Coding Boot Camp Certificate Consulting Cybersecurity Boot Camp Programs Education Finance and Accounting Happiness Healthcare Human Resources Innovation Interior Design Leadership and Management Legal Marketing Meeting and Event Planning Nonprofit Project Management Public Health Sports Sustainability Technology Credit Programs Bachelor of General Studies College Prep Credit Certificates Short-Term Programs Summer Sessions Languages English French Italian Japanese Portuguese Spanish Distance Learning Contact Us Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at the University of Miami > Overview Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at the University of Miami An association of community members seeking intellectual enrichment Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Covid-19 Guidelines: The wearing of masks in indoor spaces on the Coral Gables campus is now optional. The members of OLLI at UM fall under “those who are at high risk for severe illness.” Starting Summer 1, we invite those of you who feel more comfortable wearing a mask to continue to do so while inside Lau Founders Hall and during all classes. We will continue to keep you advised of all developments and thank you for your patience and understanding as we strive to keep our OLLI membership, instructors, and staff safe. Registration: Online registration for the Summer sessions starts on April 11, 2022 and runs through April 28,2022. Phone assisted registration for the Summer sessions starts on Monday, April 25, 2022 and runs through Thursday, April 28th, 2022 from 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. If you need assistance with registration, please call the OLLI office at 305-284-6554 during those days and an OLLI staff member will assist you. Registration information and all class information (times, days, overviews, and course descriptions) are available at: olli.dcie.miami.edu. Always check the website and the weekly OLLI News & Notes for current information and updates. Registration Instructions Catalog Summer 1 Week at a Glance Summer 2 Week at a Glance Teach a course Many of our instructors and class facilitators are volunteers! If you are a prospective instructor interested in volunteering to teach a course, please fill out our Course Proposal Form and email it to osher@miami.edu. We have a 'teach a class, take a class' policy. Our OLLI volunteer instructors can register for an OLLI class tuition-free in exchange for teaching. Join us and teach your passion! Accommodations policy OLLI@UM provides reasonable accommodations in its programs in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. To request disability accommodations, please contact the OLLI@UM office at 305-284-6554 or send an e-mail to osher@miami.edu as soon as you register and at least two weeks before classes begin. Certificates At this time, there are no certificates available for Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at the University of Miami. Please check back at a later date. Other Programs Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Courses OSHER Home 2021-2022 Membership Coral Gables Courses Give to OLLI at UM Life at OLLI OLLI Staff Frequently Asked Questions Auditing Classes Member Participation Opportunities Registration Location & Contact Information Allen Hall, 5050 Brunson Drive Coral Gables, Florida 33146 TEL: 305-284-4000 Fax: 305-284-2620 Contact Us University of Miami Office of Professional Advancement Locations & Directions Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Faculty Resources Visit our Registration and Policies page for more information concerning your rights and policies for refunds, privacy notice and equality administration policies. Copyright © University of Miami