COVID-19 The latest Information about COVID-19 Home Join Us Contact Us Log In University of Miami Division of Continuing and International Education About Message from the Dean Locations & Directions Administration Registration & Policies News & Events Contact Us Professional Certificates Business and Communications Certified Professional Coach Coding Boot Camp Certificate Consulting Cybersecurity Boot Camp Programs Education Finance and Accounting Happiness Healthcare Human Resources Innovation Interior Design Leadership and Management Legal Marketing Meeting and Event Planning Nonprofit Project Management Public Health Sports Sustainability Technology Credit Programs Bachelor of General Studies College Prep Credit Certificates Short-Term Programs Summer Sessions Languages English French Italian Japanese Portuguese Spanish Distance Learning Contact Us Home > Registration & Policies Registration & Policies Registration There are 2 ways to register for any of our programs. Register online by browsing our catalog and clicking Enroll Now on available courses. For a complete registration process guide see our student support section. Speak with an enrollment advisor at (305) 284-4000 Payment plans are available for some courses. Rights and Policies Thank you for visiting Continue.miami.edu, your resource for Continuing & International Education at the University of Miami. Your privacy is very important to us. You can find the University of Miami Privacy Policy here. DCIE Refund & Exchange Policy Refund and exchange eligibility at DCIE is determined by the date you make your refund request relative to the start date of the course/certificate program. You are entitled to a 100% refund of the cost of tuition 8 days prior to course start date. You are entitled to a 75% refund between 4 and 7 days before the course start date. You are no longer eligible for a refund, if the written request is submitted to your program office less than 3 days (72 hours) before the course start date. Cancellation requests received more than 8 days prior to course start date1 100% Refund Cancellation requests received between 4 and 7 days of the course start date 75% Refund Cancellation requests received less than 3 days (72 hours) before the course start date No Refund 1 Start date is defined as 12:00 am midnight on the day the course begins, not the time at which it starts during the day. Certificate Programs Certificate programs operate as a single course with regards to the refund policy, where your refund policy start date is the start date of the first course in the program. You cannot receive a refund for subsequent courses in a certificate program after starting the first course. Partial Payments & Payment Plans If you choose to cancel your enrollment between 4 and 7 days prior to the course start date, you will be entitled to an 75% refund of the tuition. If you have made only a partial payment or deposit on a payment plan, it is important to note that in many cases you will receive less than 75% of your deposit payment. The 75% refund is based on the cost of tuition, and leaves you will be responsible for the 25% of the tuition balance, plus any non-refundable processing fees. If your deposit or partial payment amounts to 25% of the total cost of tuition, you will not receive a refund, and you are no longer responsible for the remaining 75% due on your payment plan. Fees & Memberships All fees and memberships are non-refundable unless related to cancelled courses (see below). Cancelled Courses The University reserves the right to cancel or reschedule any program with insufficient enrollment or for reasons beyond our control. In any such cases, a full refund of fees and deposits will be made. Before a refund can be issued, verification of your payment, confirmation of the pertaining records and administrative review and approval must be completed. While we will expedite your refund request, please allow approximately 21 business days for processing. About DCIE Message from the Dean Locations & Directions Administration Course Catalog Registration & Policies Student Support News & Events Contact Us Join Continue.Miami.edu Allen Hall, 5050 Brunson Drive Coral Gables, Florida 33146 TEL: 305-284-4000 Fax: 305-284-2620 Contact Us University of Miami Office of Professional Advancement Locations & Directions Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Faculty Resources Visit our Registration and Policies page for more information concerning your rights and policies for refunds, privacy notice and equality administration policies. Copyright © University of Miami