Florida State University Florida State University Search Faculty & Staff Directory Web Departments & Services Facilities Home Departments Submit A Request Links Reports Contacts Estimate/Project Request Building Portal COVID-19 Surplus Property Due to this unprecedented health crisis, Waste Management is taking steps to safely serve our population for surplus needs. Please be aware that pickups have resumed, but there may be delays. We thank you for your understanding. FSU Surplus Property has offered several crucial services to the University and the public as a waste management strategy. Through the combined efforts of Surplus Property and Waste Management, we can continue to increase surplus programming and simplify dispositions for campus departments. We are refocusing our efforts on providing enhanced customer service to FSU and the public, all with the intent to increase the overall efficiency, effectiveness, and sustainability of these processes. By providing one consistent, simple disposition mechanism, this merger will greatly reduce the number of steps by which departments dispose of property. FSU Surplus Property offers several services to the University and the public: For the University, we offer physical relocation of property (capital or non-capital) to and from each department. All items submitted to Surplus Property are held for a period of five business days and made available to FSU departments before they are put up for auction. For additional information on FSU asset management, including the proper disposal of capital property (cost of at least $5,000), please see the Asset Management FAQ on the Controller's website. For the public, we offer online auctions of select items. Surplus Item(s) Public Auction Internal Catalog Data Cleansing FAQ FSU Surplus Warehouse 1801 Roberts Ave. Tallahassee, FL 32310 (850) 644-5520 Florida State University Facilities Department Mendenhall Bldg A (MMA) 969 Learning Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Mail Code: 4158 Facilities Webmaster Report Website Issue Privacy Policy Copyright Campus Map