Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Contact Main navigation About Academics Admissions Life at Tech Athletics Research News & Events User account menu Apply Give Visit Open Search Search Search Submit Your Event to the Georgia Tech Campus Calendar Breadcrumb Home Students: If your event is hosted by a registered student organization, you can submit your event through Engage and select that it be posted to the Campus Calendar. All other events can be submitted using the form below. Faculty/Staff: The Georgia Tech Campus Calendar is populated by Mercury, the campus news and event syndication system (note: Mercury is only accessible from within the campus network). If you're already familiar with Mercury, then simply enter your event there, select the option to "Include this event on the Campus Calendar," and it will appear on the Campus Calendar site. If you're not familiar with Mercury, then you can use the form below or contact the Institute Communications campus calendar management team for more information. Requests will be processed within 48 hours, so be sure to post your request at a minimum two days prior to your event. New users can review these guidelines on what should or should not be posted to the Campus Calendar. If you need additional assistance or have other questions, contact the Institute Communications campus calendar management team. Use the form below to submit a request to have your event listed on the Georgia Tech campus calendar. Your Contact Information Name Email Phone Event Details Event Title Location Event Date/Time Event Start Date Event Start Time Event End Date Event End Time Event Contact Event Contact Name Event Contact Email Event Contact Phone Summary Overview Category Please select the appropriate event categorie(s). Arts and Performance Career/Professional Development Conference/Symposium Other/Miscellaneous Seminar/Lecture/Colloquium Sports/Athletics Student sponsored Training/Workshop Audience Please select the appropriate invited audience(s). Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Faculty/Staff Public Related Links (organization website, registration link, etc.) Does this event repeat? Yes No If so, how often? Weekly Monthly Biweekly Other For recurring events, please specify an end date. CAPTCHA Human Validation Leave this field blank Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education