Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Department of History The Lawrence de Graaf Center for Oral and Public History Main Navigation Welcome Current Projects Collections Student Information Services Resources Make a Gift WPA Project Outspoken Podcast Visions of Justice, Voices of Change Long Table Los Angeles In Memoriam Podcast Corner Episode Twenty-two: 52nd Street Jazz and the Photography of William Gottlieb CSU Japanese American Digitization Project Search oral histories, photographs, and other ephemera from COPH’s Japanese American collections on the CSU Japanese American Digitization Project website. This collaborative website brings together collections from 14 CSUs, including CSUF. The central purpose of the California State University Japanese American History Digitization Project is to improve access to CSU archival collections about the history of Japanese Americans and to develop a functional model for ongoing planning and collaboration among the CSU archival and library community. Mapping Confederate Monuments The protests for racial justice and equality in 2020 across the United States led to a sweeping public reassessment of the American past, in particular the meaning of slavery and the Civil War and how these have been remembered in public spaces. Mapping Confederate Monuments examines these public spaces through an Omeka-based archive created by students in Dr. Benjamin Cawthra’s Fall 2020 Introduction to Public History class at California State University, Fullerton. For this project, students presented their research on the histories of Confederate monuments—who created them and for what purposes and what their status is in the wake of the controversies over Confederate symbolism over the past few years. Giving Back to Preserve History “Each day we lose a story, so it’s great to see a program we think will inspire people and train students in techniques to record those stories. I think it will make a major difference in what we learn. There are so many untold stories in Orange County about so many different aspects of Orange County." - Wylie Aitken The Bette and Wylie A. Aitken Community Room is part of our recently opened Lawrence de Graaf Center for Oral and Public History, a component of CSUF’s Department of History and College of Humanities and Social Sciences. The Aitkens donated $500,000 in October toward the COPH. Additionally, the gift received $250,000 in matching funds from the $40 million gift provided by MacKenzie Scott and her husband Dan Jewett to CSUF in July. Read more about the Aitkens’ generous donation in the OC Register’s December 12, 2021 article . Mission Statement: The Lawrence de Graaf Center for Oral and Public History (COPH)—a component of the Department of History and the College of Humanities and Social Sciences at California State University, Fullerton—embraces a three-fold mission. First, COPH collects and preserves the stories of distinctive individuals and diverse communities whose historical experiences have shaped the collective memory of Southern California, defined national and transnational identities, and reflected life in an era of globalization. Second, COPH undertakes and provides support services for public history projects, particularly those designed to share oral histories with public audiences in Southern California and beyond. Third, COPH trains CSUF students in the research methods of collecting oral histories, interpreting these histories, and presenting important regional, national, and global stories to the public. Ultimately, COPH seeks to combine the strengths of oral history and public history in order to build better connections between Cal State Fullerton and the communities—local, national, and global—to which it is tied. Description of activities and goals: With over 6,000 recorded interviews and related transcripts, photographs, and other materials, COPH maintains the largest oral history archive in the state of California. The collection stands out nationally for its grassroots nature and the wide range of communities represented. The genesis of this archive came with the creation of a student-driven oral history program at Cal State Fullerton in 1968. Today, we continue to train students to create oral histories and generate new collections. We recognize that certain obligations accompany ownership of these collections, in particular the maintenance of a suitable storage environment and access for users, including students, scholars, educators, community members, journalists, filmmakers, and policy makers. We endeavor to employ the most appropriate, up-to-date technologies to achieve both of these ends. The public history projects that COPH undertakes and supports include projects designed not only to tell the stories of Southern California but also to connect those stories to national and global contexts. COPH’s public history projects, like its oral history projects, are student-driven. COPH trains students to curate museum exhibitions, engage in historic preservation initiatives, and complete other projects related to community history, public art and culture, oral history performance, heritage tourism, digital history, and archival management. Many of these projects are collaborative and serve as capstones for graduate students pursuing the M.A. in History. COPH’s highest goal is to provide service to students, researchers, and the public. An array of courses, projects, and internships prepare students to become engaged community members and global citizens, effective historians and educators, and successful public history professionals. Groundbreaking oral history projects, sponsorship of the Hansen Lectureship and Fellowship in Oral and Public History, and full array of support services for researchers make COPH a vibrant center of scholarly and creative activity. Oral history workshops, consultation services, and community-based projects allow COPH to serve the diverse communities whose members have shared their memories with us. Description of activities and goals: With more than 5,000 recorded interviews and related transcripts, photographs, and other materials, COPH maintains the largest oral history archive in the state of California. The collection stands out nationally for its grassroots nature and the wide range of communities represented. The genesis of this archive came with the creation of a student-driven oral history program at Cal State Fullerton in 1968. Today, we continue to train students to create oral histories and generate new collections. We recognize that certain obligations accompany ownership of these collections, in particular the maintenance of a suitable storage environment and access for users, including students, scholars, educators, community members, journalists, filmmakers, and policy makers. We endeavor to employ the most appropriate, up-to-date technologies to achieve both of these ends. The public history projects that COPH undertakes and supports include projects designed not only to tell the stories of Southern California but also to connect those stories to national and global contexts. COPH’s public history projects, like its oral history projects, are student-driven. COPH trains students to curate museum exhibitions, engage in historic preservation initiatives, and complete other projects related to community history, public art and culture, oral history performance, heritage tourism, digital history, and archival management. Many of these projects are collaborative and serve as capstones for graduate students pursuing the M.A. in History. COPH’s highest goal is to provide service to students, researchers, and the public. An array of courses, projects, and internships prepare students to become engaged community members and global citizens, effective historians and educators, and successful public history professionals. Groundbreaking oral history projects, sponsorship of the Hansen Lectureship and Fellowship in Oral and Public History, and full array of support services for researchers make COPH a vibrant center of scholarly and creative activity. Oral history workshops, consultation services, and community-based projects allow COPH to serve the diverse communities whose members have shared their memories with us. Description of Activities and Goals: With more than 5,000 recorded interviews and related transcripts, photographs, and other materials, COPH maintains the largest oral history archive in the state of California. The collection stands out nationally for its grassroots nature and the wide range of communities represented. The genesis of this archive came with the creation of a student-driven oral history program at Cal State Fullerton in 1968. Today, we continue to train students to create oral histories and generate new collections. We recognize that certain obligations accompany ownership of these collections, in particular the maintenance of a suitable storage environment and access for users, including students, scholars, educators, community members, journalists, filmmakers, and policy makers. We endeavor to employ the most appropriate, up-to-date technologies to achieve both of these ends. The public history projects that COPH undertakes and supports include projects designed not only to tell the stories of Southern California but also to connect those stories to national and global contexts. COPH’s public history projects, like its oral history projects, are student-driven. COPH trains students to curate museum exhibitions, engage in historic preservation initiatives, and complete other projects related to community history, public art and culture, oral history performance, heritage tourism, digital history, and archival management. Many of these projects are collaborative and serve as capstones for graduate students pursuing the M.A. in History. COPH’s highest goal is to provide service to students, researchers, and the public. An array of courses, projects, and internships prepare students to become engaged community members and global citizens, effective historians and educators, and successful public history professionals. Groundbreaking oral history projects, sponsorship of the Hansen Lectureship and Fellowship in Oral and Public History, and full array of support services for researchers make COPH a vibrant center of scholarly and creative activity. Oral history workshops, consultation services, and community-based projects allow COPH to serve the diverse communities whose members have shared their memories with us. Donations This site is maintained by The Lawrence de Graaf Center for Oral and Public History. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact kmarken@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.