Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Core Repository Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Collections Request Samples Facilities & Services Education & Outreach Links Our Mission Policies & Funding History People Marine Sediment Cores Terrestrial Cores Coral Collection Dredges Special Collections Sample Residuals Search Collection Sample Request Guidelines Types of Samples Publications Core Storage Instrument Labs Lamont-Doherty Core Repository You are here: Home News News Amino Acid Racemization Interlaboratory Comparison Samples added to the LDCR April 14, 2022 - Interlaboratory Comparison Samples (ILC) used in the Amino Acid Racemization (AAR) community over the past 40 years have been added to the LDCR collection! The four ILCs were donated by John Wehmiller and are available for use by the community. For more information see the article, "Long-term preservation of amino acid racemization interlaboratory comparison samples". R/V Pelican (cruise PE22-17) at the LDCR The R/V Pelican Sets Sail, and Data Collection Begins Jan. 19, 2022 - A cruise aboard the R/V Pelican, headed by Cecilia McHugh and Leonardo Seeber, will bring new cores to the LDCR in early February. The purpose of the cruise is to, "...evaluate the potential earthquake hazard along the Enriquillo-Plantain Garden fault, located between Haiti and Jamaica." From Cecilia, "All is well here. We started coring on January 9 and have collected so far 11 jumbo gravity cores and 5 multicores... If all goes well we'll collect another 10." Looking forward to some fresh mud! Feb. 11, 2022 - Splitting of the PE22-17 cores began yesterday with the multicores that were taken on the cruise. The sediment types, calcareous ooze and iron-rich mineral based sediments, are incredibly different depending on where they were taken along the fault! Mapping Offshore Faults in Kingston Bay Return of the R/V Pelican to Ocho Rios, Jamaica Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: PE22-17-MC01, this core is a calcareous ooze composed mainly of microfossils! Slide 2: Ready to scan, this multicore has layers from multiple earthquake events. Slide 3: This multicore is very short due to the large piece of wood debris and sand bed that stopped the barrels from penetrating further. Slide 4: Small amounts of material from the cores smeared onto slides (smear slides) that will be used to identify what is in all the mud! PE22-17-MC01, this core is a calcareous ooze composed mainly of microfossils! Ready to scan, this multicore has layers from multiple earthquake events. This multicore is very short due to the large piece of wood debris and sand bed that stopped the barrels from penetrating further. Small amounts of material from the cores smeared onto slides (smear slides) that will be used to identify what is in all the mud! Previous Next Phone 845-365-8792 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close