Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass COVID-19 Dashboard Campus Update - May 26, 2022 The University is currently at Protective Measures Level 1. The University will no longer update its COVID-19 dashboard. Because of the decreased efficacy of the dashboard as a measure of COVID-19 prevalence on campus with shifts in at-home testing and positivity, we will continue to collect COVID-19 data and will share that and other campus public health updates as needed. Thank you for continuing to follow our current Public Health Guidance and for doing your part to keep our communities healthy and safe. The University collects and shares aggregate results of faculty, postdocs, students, and staff who participate in the Penn Cares testing program. The data in the tables above represents spring 2022 semester participants starting August 8, 2021. The Penn Cares COVID-19 response program is informed by the University’s profound respect for the impact its public health initiatives have on the health and safety of our friends, families, and neighbors. COVID-19 testing includes asymptomatic screening of faculty, postdocs, students, and staff who are unvaccinated and/or have not provided their vaccination documentation. Data may also include results from optional screening testing made available to those on campus who are fully vaccinated. Diagnostic testing is performed on members of the University community who report symptoms or close contacts through PennOpen Pass. Data in the results represents University-managed testing, primarily conducted on campus at the Tent at Du Bois (for both screening and symptomatic/close-contact individuals). The weekly update of Sunday-through-Saturday results is published every Tuesday morning. See also the Glossary of COVID-19 Terms, and access testing results of the 2021 fall semester, 2021 summer semester, the 2021 spring semester, and the 2020 fall semester programs. City of Philadelphia COVID-19 Data View testing information and data about COVID-19 in Philadelphia. Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) COVID-19 Data View the CDC's COVID-19 data tracker. Previously Reported Data See testing results of the 2021 fall semester testing program See testing results of the 2021 summer semester testing program. See testing results of the 2021 spring semester testing program. See testing results of the 2020 fall semester testing program. COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement