Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass Current Testing Sites and Hours Penn Cares Testing Site Update Houston Hall and the Tent at Du Bois are permanently closed for all Penn Cares COVID-19 testing. All University testing will now be done at our new Penn Cares testing site, located at 3734 Spruce Street. The testing site is closed on Monday, May 30, in observance of the Memorial Day holiday. PennAccess provides information on the accessible features of the buildings and campus grounds owned or leased by the University. View a map of the testing site. University Screening, Symptomatic, and Red Pass Testing 3734 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Monday - Friday: 8 am - 4 pm Closed on Saturday and Sunday Be sure to bring your Penn Card and your completed daily PennOpen Pass. Testing is saliva-based for screening purposes of asymptomatic individuals. Testing is nasal swab-based for symptomatic, close contact, and Red Pass. ADA accessible. Red Pass Management of Symptoms and Close Contacts When you enroll in PennOpen Pass and report symptoms or recent contact with someone who may have COVID-19, you get a Red PennOpen Pass. Answer the additional questions, and read and follow the instructions on your Red Pass carefully. In addition: Self-isolate at home and do not go to work/class in-person. Stay home, wear a face covering, and avoid contact with others - including those you live with. Contact your manager or Public Health and Wellbeing staff (if you are a student) to let them know about your absence from work or class. Seek care and advice from one of the following clinical team(s): Occupational Medicine, your primary care provider, or Public Health and Wellbeing. If you would like to speak to a Penn Medicine clinician to discuss your situation, please call the PennOpen Pass call center 215-573-6355. COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement