Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass Glossary of COVID-19 Terms Asymptomatic Asymptomatic refers to someone who has no symptoms. In the case of COVID-19, this refers to someone who has: Recovered from the COVID-19 and no longer has symptoms Never develops any symptoms of COVID-19 although they test positive for the disease Close Contact In the case of COVID-19, a close contact is defined as any individual who was within 6 feet of a COVID-19-positive person for at least 15 minutes starting from 2 days before that person’s illness onset or positive test result. The public health evaluation of close contacts to patients with laboratory-confirmed or probable COVID-19 may vary depending on the exposure setting. Community Mitigation There are several actions that individuals and communities can take to help reduce the spread of COVID-19 among their families, friends, and communities. In general, the more cases that exist in a community, the more likely COVID-19 will spread to others. Also, the more people an individual interacts with, and the longer each interaction lasts, the higher the risk of viral spread. Location can be a factor, too, with outdoor activities generally being less risky than indoor activities. Mask wearing, social distancing, and good hand washing are all mitigation strategies. Community Spread Community spread refers to the local spread of the virus. This can include some people who are not sure how or where they became infected. Each health department determines community spread differently based on local conditions. Contact Tracing Contact tracing involves notifying contacts of confirmed cases to whom they may have been exposed. Contact tracing includes asking very detailed questions to assess activities leading to potential exposure. In addition, contact tracing includes guidance on isolation or quarantine, monitoring for signs and symptoms, and arranging testing when it is appropriate. In the case of clinical and lab settings, PPE often mitigates the risk of proximity and length of exposure. In these cases, the contact tracing team will ask very detailed questions about these interactions to ensure the appropriate risk is assigned. These risk levels vary as public health guidance changes. Working collaboratively with contact tracers is critical to the success of limiting the spread of infection. COVID-19 On February 11, 2020 the World Health Organization announced an official name for the disease that is causing the 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak, first identified in Wuhan, China. The new name of this disease is coronavirus disease 2019, abbreviated as COVID-19. In COVID-19, ‘CO’ stands for ‘corona,’ ‘VI’ for ‘virus,’ and ‘D’ for disease. The World Health Organization declared the outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on 30 January 2020, and a pandemic on 11 March 2020. There are many types of human coronaviruses including some that commonly cause mild upper-respiratory tract illnesses. COVID-19 is a new disease, caused by a novel (or new) coronavirus that has not previously been seen in humans . Novel Coronavirus A novel coronavirus is a new coronavirus that has not been previously identified. The virus causing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), is not the same as the coronaviruses that commonly circulate among humans and cause mild illness, like the common cold. PennOpen Pass PennOpen Pass is a multi-purpose platform to help support prevention, detection, containment, and other aspects of Penn’s COVID-19 pandemic response. PennOpen Pass serves as a daily symptom tracker, link to clinical expertise and resources, campus-access safety check, and information management tool. PennOpen Pass is central to continuous efforts to help our academic, research, clinical, and professional community thrive on Penn’s campus. PennOpen Pass enables early detection of COVID-19 by: Identifying individuals whose health may be at risk and/or may pose health risks to others due to COVID-19, Ensuring that individuals at risk receive appropriate assistance and followup, which may include COVID-19 testing, self-isolation, contact tracing, and medical care, Monitoring trends related to COVID-19 to ensure proper allocation of resources for campus health and safety, and Promoting compliance with campus COVID-19 health and safety initiatives such as testing completion. PennOpen Pass Green Pass PennOpen Pass users who report no symptoms and no recent contact with someone who may have COVID-19 will be granted a Green Pass. A Green Pass is used to enter Penn Medicine facilities and University buildings and board Penn Transit. PennOpen Pass Red Pass PennOpen Pass users who report either certain symptoms or recent contact with someone who may have COVID-19 will be issued a Red Pass. Users who receive a Red Pass are directed to assistance and followup tailored to their individual needs. Individuals who fail to comply with screening test requirements will be issued a non-compliance Red Pass and instructed to quarantine and schedule a new test promptly. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Personal protective equipment is the protective equipment worn by health-care workers and front-line staff when caring for patients with certain infectious diseases, including COVID-19. These include gowns, gloves, eye protection, surgical masks and respirators. It is also used to refer to masks worn by the general public. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), Who Needs It Everyone should wear a face mask when outside their home. Patients with confirmed or possible SARS-CoV-2 infection should wear a facemask when being evaluated medically. Healthcare personnel should adhere to Standard and Transmission-based Precautions when caring for patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Pod A pod is a small and consistent group of students who associate with each other based on agreed upon, shared practices. Pods must be used in conjunction with other primary prevention strategies (masking, hand-washing, physical distancing) to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in the community while maintaining social connection. Read more. Principles of Responsible Conduct Faculty and staff are expected to follow the Principles of Responsible Conduct in their use of PennOpen Pass. The Principles of Responsible Conduct articulate the basic expectations that should guide faculty and staff in our work, and conduct of activities, for the University and Health System, with the highest standards of integrity and ethics. Quarantine and Isolation Quarantine and isolation are public health measures used to reduce or prevent the spread of illness. Quarantine refers to separating a healthy person or group of healthy people away from others due to their exposure to a contagious disease such as COVID-19. Quarantine includes the advice to stay home, increase cleaning of common areas (e.g. bathrooms, kitchens, shared living spaces), physically distancing from others, and wearing your mask at all times unless alone in your bedroom. Isolation refers to separating the individual with a contagious disease such as COVID-19 away from others. Do not travel, go to class, work, or participate in any social activities. Limit the sharing of bathrooms and common areas (e.g. kitchens, living rooms) with others, and stay in your room alone as much as possible. People in isolation should order food in or ask a friend to drop off groceries. Wear a mask anytime you are outside of your bedroom. Do not host friends or small gatherings. Do not attend small gatherings. In both instances, University staff will remain in regular communication with students to support their wellbeing and offer additional virtual resources, as appropriate. SARS-CoV-2 Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the strain of coronavirus that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), the respiratory illness responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic. Screening Screening refers to a test or procedure that looks for diseases before people have symptoms. In the context of COVID-19, screening University students, faculty, postdocs, and staff allows for early identification of COVID-19, even in persons without symptoms, and allows for those individuals to be isolated to prevent spread of the disease. Student Campus Compact The Student Campus Compact outlines expectations for all Penn students, regardless of where they are living, during the 2021-2021 academic year. By enrolling as a student in 2020-2021, you agree to adhere to the expectations for physical distancing and other public-health behaviors, including daily symptom checks on PennOpen Pass. Symptomatic Symptomatic is used to refer to individuals who show symptoms of a disease. In the case of COVID-19 these symptoms may include cough, fever, loss of taste or smell, and others. When someone has the common symptoms associated with a disease or condition, they are considered symptomatic. When a disease exists without noticeable symptoms, the person is asymptomatic. Symptoms (of COVID-19) People with COVID-19 have reported a wide range of symptoms – ranging from mild symptoms to severe illness. Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus. People with these symptoms may have COVID-19: • Fever or chills • Cough • Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing • Fatigue • Muscle or body aches • Headache • New loss of taste or smell • Sore throat • Congestion or runny nose • Nausea or vomiting • Diarrhea This list does not include all possible symptoms. CDC will continue to update this list as it learns more about COVID-19. Test for COVID-19 A viral test detects virus in the individual at the time of testing and can only tell someone whether or not they are infected at that moment. If they test negative, they can still remain at risk of infection. If they test negative and then start to feel sick, they need to get tested again. A viral test cannot tell someone whether they were infected before. They will need an antibody (blood) test to show that. Test, PCR Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay, a very accurate type of viral test. Nasopharyngeal (NP) swabs are often used to collect samples for PCR tests. Anterior nares—lower nostril, less-invasive—nasal swabs, and saliva, are also used for sample collection. Test, Saliva-based COVID-19 can be detected in the saliva and therefore a saliva-based sample is an alternate way to initiate COVID-19 PCR testing. This sampling method is less invasive than a nasal swab. The test performs as well as a nasal swab for detecting COVID-19. Testing, Close Contact This refers to testing of someone who has been in close contact (i.e., within 6 feet, of a person with a documented SARS-CoV-2 infection for at least 15 minutes) and does not have symptoms. Testing, Diagnostic Diagnostic testing for SARS-CoV-2 is performed when there is a reason to suspect that an individual may be infected, such as having symptoms or due to a suspected recent exposure. It can also be used to determine resolution of infection. Those who may be referred for diagnostic testing include: Symptomatic individuals who present to their healthcare provider, Individuals identified through contact tracing efforts, Individuals who indicate that they were exposed to someone with a confirmed or suspected case of COVID-19, Individuals present at an event where an attendee was later confirmed to have COVID-19. PennOpen Pass will continue to help those who need testing based on symptoms or a notification of exposure to COVID-19. Testing, Gateway Gateway testing of new arrivals to Penn’s campus is done to establish the baseline prevalence of COVID-19. This was done in the Fall 2020 semester and will be repeated in the Spring 2021 semester when everyone returns to campus. Testing, Screening Screening tests are intended to identify infected individuals without symptoms who may be contagious so that measures can be taken to prevent further transmission. Individuals who are eligible for screening will be instructed to enroll and participate in regular screening testing. They will be informed of their results in a timely manner so they can protect themselves and others if their test result is positive for COVID-19. Screening testing is just one tool in the University’s public-health toolbox to prevent the spread of COVID-19 on campus and the surrounding communities. Screening testing is performed on a regular basis on asymptomatic individuals with no known exposure to COVID-19, and is intended to identify and monitor COVID-19 positivity rates among the University community. Screening testing is only beneficial if individuals are tested on a regular, ongoing basis to assess positivity rates in a population. Screening testing is not a service to be used for personal and/or travel testing-related documentation. Those who have symptoms of COVID-19 or have a known exposure to the virus should complete their daily symptom tracker and exposure report in PennOpen Pass. Guidance will then be provided to those individuals who receive a Red Pass. Testing, Surveillance Surveillance testing is used to gain information at a population level and results of surveillance testing are returned in aggregate rather than at the individual level. Surveillance testing may sample a certain percentage of a specific population to monitor for increasing or decreasing prevalence and to determine the population effect from community interventions, such as social distancing. An example of surveillance testing is a plan developed by a state public health department to randomly select and sample a percentage of all individuals in a city on a rolling basis to assess local infection rates and trends. Testing, Symptomatic Symptomatic testing is conducted for individuals showing symptoms of COVID-19. COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement