Skip to main content Rutgers.edu New Brunswick RBHS Newark Camden Online Rutgers Health Rutgers Search Rutgers University Logo Universitywide COVID-19 Information Menu Home Health/Safety COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Vaccine Testing Program Dashboard Symptom Checker Community Safety Practices Resources from the State of New Jersey For Students/Parents Technology Resources for Students For Faculty For Employees Technology Resources for Working Remotely COVID-19 Telecommuting and Leave Resources COVID-19 Observation Reporting FAQ Communications Open Search Input Generic selectors Exact matches only Exact matches only Search in title Search in title Search in content Search in content Search in excerpt Hidden Hidden Hidden Hidden Filter by Categories More results... Homepage Universitywide COVID-19 Information A Sites@Rutgers Website Customize this space by editing the page in the "Banner" section! This is the default content. View Documentation Vaccinations & Boosters COVID-19 vaccines and first boosters are required of ALL Rutgers students and employees who are eligible to receive them. Documentation proof must be uploaded to the appropriate student or employee vaccine portal. Rutgers offers COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters (though not required by the university second boosters for those eligible are available) at three campus locations. Those with a previously approved exemptions are also exempt from the booster requirement Read the new university policy that addresses vaccination requirements for volunteers, contractors, guest lecturers, and others. See the FAQ for the policy. Get answers to COVID-19 vaccine questions. Guidance Changes Related to COVID-19 Protocols Including Masking (March 10, 2022) Get information for Event Protocol Read Guide to Returning to Rutgers. Faculty and staff can review the Return to Rutgers Tech Checklist. Navigating Our Classrooms and Student Spaces is a quick reference guide for faculty and students. My Campus Pass, a daily self-screening application for employees and students. Log in to my.rutgers.edu. Health & Safety Mental Health and Wellness If you are feeling anxious or know someone who is, we urge you to seek assistance. Rutgers has many wellbeing resources available to assist students and employees. Rutgers offers student support and guidance services at CAPS or UBHC. Rutgers staff, faculty, and their families can seek services through Rutgers4U. The My Wellness app for Rutgers employees is available within the Rutgers app and within the myRutgers portal. Testing Learn about Rutgers testing program and view the weekly testing program data. Be Prepared For resources that can answer your questions about the current semester and beyond, please visit your respective campus website: Rutgers University–New Brunswick Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Rutgers University–Newark Rutgers University–Camden Watch the past episodes of the COVID-19 Health Briefing with RBHS Chancellor Brian Strom and listen to On the Pandemic Podcast hosted by RBHS’s Mary O’Dowd. Announcements March 31, 2022 Reminder – Updated Masking Protocol Effective Monday, April 4, use of face coverings in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings will be optional. Face coverings will still be required in all teaching spaces (classrooms, lecture halls, seminar rooms, etc.), teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, and clinical facilities. Additionally, face coverings will be required in student-staff and student-faculty meeting spaces. The decision to use face coverings in spaces where they are not required is entirely a matter of individual choice and should always be respected. The use of face coverings is still required for faculty, staff, and students who have received an exemption from the university’s COVID-19 vaccination requirements; these individuals must wear face coverings in all public spaces, including offices, research labs, housing, and conference rooms. March 10, 2022 Changes Related to COVID-19 Protocols As public health statistics continue to improve, Rutgers is making some important changes to our COVID-19 operating protocols related to face coverings; indoor events; and vaccine requirements for volunteers, contractors, guest lecturers, and other affiliates. Read the announcement for full details. Face coverings: Effective Monday, April 4, use of face coverings in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings will be optional. However, use of appropriate face coverings will still be required in all teaching spaces (classrooms, lecture halls, seminar rooms, etc.), teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, and clinical facilities. Additionally, face coverings will continue to be required in student-staff and student-faculty meeting spaces. And face coverings will continue to be required for faculty, staff, and students who have received an exemption from the university’s COVID-19 vaccination requirements. Indoor events: All indoor events require attendees to show proof of full vaccination or a COVID-19 negative PCR test taken within 72 hours prior to the event and must remain compliant with published COVID-19 protocols. Face coverings are no longer required at events. Vaccine requirements for contractors, volunteers, and others: A new university policy addresses vaccination requirements for volunteers, contractors, guest lecturers, and others. These changes are effective immediately. Read the FAQ about the policy Additional Announcements Expansion of Permissible Use of Accrued Paid Sick Time Extended Through February 28, 2022 (January 26, 2022) Return to Campus Update – January 31, 2022 (January 21, 2022) Event Protocol Update (January 13, 2022) Information on Student Required Booster Vaccination (January 10, 2022) Update on Booster Vaccination for Faculty and Staff (January 2, 2022) COVID Booster Guidance (December 9, 2021) Update on Telecommuting Policy Relaxation (December 3, 2021) Additional announcements can be found on the Communications page. Report concerns Submit violations of university safety guidelines by completing the COVID Observation Reporting form. Please note that submissions are not monitored in real-time and are intended for non-emergency concerns only. Emergency support Donate to support Rutgers students during this crisis and help fund COVID-19 research and clinical care: support.rutgers.edu/covid19support This website is your official source of information about the university’s response to COVID-19. COVID-19 Resources Centers for Disease Control and Prevention New Jersey’s Official COVID-19 Information Hub Additional Resources Hotline New Jersey Poison Information and Education System at Rutgers is serving as the NJDOH COVID-19 Call Center—call the hotline at 1-800-222-1222 for assistance in multiple languages and 24 hours a day. Contact Us Have questions? Review the FAQ or Contact Us for answers. Contact Webmaster | Accessibility Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers web sites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier or Provide Feedback Form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Accessibility Information × Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers web sites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier or Provide Feedback Form. Close