Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass Penn Cares Testing Program Screening Testing Criteria Screening Testing Fully vaccinated and boosted students, faculty, staff, and postdocs: Screening testing is not required at this time for those who are fully vaccinated and up-to-date with their booster vaccines. Students, faculty, staff, and postdocs who are not up-to-date on vaccines and/or have not uploaded their vaccine information: University students, faculty, staff, and postdocs who are not yet fully vaccinated and boosted and/or have not uploaded their vaccine information into the appropriate system of record are required to take part in screening testing twice each week. Optional Screening Testing for Vaccinated Individuals: All members of the Penn community will continue to have access to COVID-19 testing on campus for any reason as an added measure of comfort. All University community members must schedule their Penn Cares screening test online: covidscheduling.upenn.edu/. Screening Testing Exemption Conditions Clinical faculty, staff, and postdocs in dental medicine, medicine, nursing, and veterinary medicine must follow the guidance of their school. Students enrolled in online programs who are NOT coming to campus. Students, faculty, staff, and postdocs whose clinical rotations have taken them away from campus. Those who have had a positive COVID-19 test in the past 90 days should test if new symptoms present. Individuals should use PennOpen Pass every day in case new symptoms or exposures arise during the 90-day period. Screening Testing Details Testing Schedule Please schedule your appointments and indicate your consent to testing (view copy of the consent form) by visiting the web-based scheduling application. If you need assistance, please consult this tip sheet (PDF). Appointments are booked at 15-minute intervals on a first-come, first-served basis. Scheduling in advance improves your chance of receiving your desired testing date/time/location. You must make or cancel any appointment at least 24 hours before the desired testing time. This allows for processes to run overnight and onsite registration to run efficiently for you and the staff when you arrive at the testing site. Testing Locations Learn about testing locations and hours on campus. Before Getting a Screening Test Participants should refrain from eating, drinking, tooth brushing, mouth washing, gum chewing, vaping, and tobacco use for at least 30 minutes before submitting their saliva sample at the test location. This prevents contamination of their saliva sample. Participants should plan to be “hands-free” during the testing process. Storage of personal possessions will not be available. At testing sites, participants will enter through one location and exit at another location. Participants should make sure to bring their current PennCard. They should perform their daily symptom check on PennOpen Pass before leaving their residence, and only leave it if they have a Green Pass. They will need to show their Green Pass at the testing site. While lining up outside the testing location, everyone should wear a face covering and practice physical distancing. The Screening Testing Process Participants will be asked to provide a saliva sample. The sample collection only takes a few minutes, usually less than 30 minutes. Step-by-step testing process Report whether you have had anything to eat, drink, smoke, or chew in the last 30 minutes. Present your Green PennOpen Pass. Swipe your PennCard so staff can locate your record. Provide your name and date of birth to confirm your identity. Verify that your name is correct on the test tube label. Move to a saliva station where you will take the lid off your test tube and dribble saliva into the tube until you have filled the required amount. Once complete, replace the lid and take the tube to the collection station. At collection, hold up your test tube so staff can confirm that there is enough saliva in the tube. Staff will ask that you return to a test station if enough saliva is not in the tube. Hand your tube to checkout staff and sanitize your hands. Schedule your next test. Getting Test Results Test results are expected well within 48 hours. Go to the COVID Results log-in page. Click on the login icon in the upper right-hand corner. Enter PennKey and Password. If a test result is positive, the participant will get a Red Pass in PennOpen Pass with instructions for next steps. Penn Medicine clinicians and contract tracers will also reach out to those who receive a positive result with appropriate next steps. Learn about testing positive for COVID-19. A test result may show inconclusive due to a contaminated or insufficient saliva sample or other processing error. Participants should proceed with taking their next scheduled test. Participants will not receive a Red Pass because their test result shows inconclusive. Questions about Testing and Results Wellness at Penn is available to answer questions about on-campus testing and results. Please contact covidtesting@upenn.edu On-Campus Testing Data Data about the on-campus testing program, including the number of daily tests performed and positivity rates, are available online. About the University of Pennsylvania Saliva Test The University of Pennsylvania, in partnership with Penn Medicine, developed the saliva-based PCR test program to screen for COVID-19 in the University community. The program provides the following: Faster results with an onsite laboratory equipped with robotics Capacity for high volume, currently designed for 40,000 tests per week Improved efficiency throughout the experience with automated processes Reduced discomfort with self-collected saliva samples instead of nasal swabs Improved supply chain of testing materials over the swabs and reagents used in other processes Screening tests are a public health tool used to reduce the spread of the virus. The saliva-based screening can identify infection more quickly and allows contact tracing and isolation to be initiated before the virus spreads further. Regular saliva screening, as required by the University, is as sensitive as nasal PCR tests. Screening testing is not a tool used for personal and/or travel testing-related documentation. Symptomatic and Close-Contact Testing About the Nasal PCR Test The anterior nares (lower nostril, less-invasive) nasal PCR test is used as a diagnostic tool at the University. Individuals report symptoms and exposure through PennOpen Pass. As they answer the series of Red Pass questions, individuals receive personalized clinical guidance, perhaps determining the need to test quickly. Both testing programs are intended to keep the University community healthy; neither testing program is available for personal use and/or testing related to travel. The University cannot accommodate requests for documentation for travel due to the specificity required by each country and airline. For more information, please consult public health guidance at Penn. COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement