Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass Announcements Select Category AudienceFaculty, Postdocs & StaffGraduate & Professional StudentsHealthcare WorkersParentsUndergraduate StudentsVisitors Enter Keywords SubjectCOVID TestingVaccinationsEventsOperational StatusHousing & DiningResearchTravel A Message to the Penn Community May 25, 2022 - We thank everyone who took part in our two great Commencement ceremonies last week, as well as all the joyful events that marked the end of the spring semester. As we begin the first summer session, we want to update the community that screening testing will continue to be available on campus at no cost throughout the summer. A Message to the Penn Community May 11, 2022 - We look forward to seeing you, in the days ahead, at the joyful celebrations of our graduates and gatherings of our community and alumni. We are writing, in this context, to remind everyone of basic steps that we can all take to minimize the risks of COVID-19 transmission, as we see rises in the number of cases in the Philadelphia area and on our campus. While there are no changes to our current policies, we encourage everyone to follow these precautions. An Update on Campus Masking Policy April 22, 2022 - We are very pleased to let you know that, in alignment with the changes announced earlier today by the City of Philadelphia, our campus will now operate at Protective Measures Level 1. This level means that masks are no longer required in indoor public spaces on campus. An Update on Campus Masking Policy April 13, 2022 - We are writing with an update on our campus masking policy, in accordance with the recent announcement of a change in policy from the City of Philadelphia. As of Monday, April 18, we will again require all members of and visitors to the Penn community to wear masks while indoors in public or shared spaces, and we strongly encourage masking now in all campus buildings, ahead of the city’s mandate. An Update on Classroom Masking March 24, 2022 - We announced last week that masking would be required in classrooms until March 28. We are now extending the requirement of masks in classrooms beyond March 28, following consultations with students and faculty across campus. A Message to the Penn Community March 15, 2022 - We are today announcing some significant changes to our campus protocols, following the recent changes in guidance of the Philadelphia Department of Public Health and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. As of today: A Message to the Penn Community March 1, 2022 - Thank you to everyone who has uploaded their booster information; we are pleased to report that, as of today, more than 60% of our community has reported having their third COVID shot, including 73% of faculty, staff, and postdocs. In an effort to ensure that everyone meets this requirement, the University is extending the deadline to March 14 for those who are eligible for a booster shot to upload their information. A Message to the Penn Community February 22, 2022 - We continue to monitor our shared progress in lowering the COVID positivity rate on campus. We are very pleased that the campus positivity rate, as posted today on the University Dashboard, is now at a remarkably low 0.97%. A Message to the Penn Community February 15, 2022 - We are very pleased to update you about positive trends in the COVID-19 situation on campus. The campus positivity rate, as posted on the University Dashboard today, is now 1.8%, including a dramatic one-week decrease among undergraduate students to 2.99% and a remarkable 0.84% rate among graduate and professional students. A Message to Graduate and Professional Students February 14, 2022 - We are enormously appreciative of your hard work, patience, and resilience in this challenging semester. We are especially grateful to GAPSA for its invaluable partnership – and to all of our graduate and professional students for sustaining a remarkable COVID-19 positivity rate below 2% for the past two weeks. While the overall campus positivity rates are not where we would like them to be, we are hopeful that these numbers will fall in the weeks ahead, as we continue to see COVID positivity rates decline across our region. A Message to Penn Undergraduates February 9, 2022 - We are enormously appreciative of your hard work, patience, and resilience during this semester. While the COVID-19 positivity rates for undergraduates are not where we would like them to be, we are hopeful that these numbers will fall in the weeks ahead, as we continue to see positivity rates decline across our region. A Message to Undergraduate and Graduate/Professional Students February 1, 2022 - We hope you are all off to a very successful spring semester on campus and are enjoying reuniting with friends and classmates. We are writing today to provide an update on indoor social event registration, as well as reminders about COVID-19 guidance on campus. A Message to the Penn Community January 20, 2022 - We are grateful to every member of the Penn community who has come together to help us get through this latest phase of the COVID pandemic. We will return to in-person classes as scheduled on Monday (January 24). On that day, we will also resume the hybrid work plan for staff that first went into effect last year. A Message to Penn Students January 12, 2022 - We are enormously appreciative of your patience and resilience as we mark the first day of classes. In these highly challenging circumstances, we are determined to sustain our community and our shared commitment to education and research. In that light, we are writing today with updates on campus and academic life for the opening weeks of the semester. A Message to the Penn Community January 7, 2022 - We hope that all of you had a good Winter Break, and we are excited to welcome you back to the spring semester. While the current circumstances may not be what any of us would prefer, we are determined to sustain our core university missions. We know that we can count on every member of our community to be part of this effort, as we all navigate together this challenging phase of the pandemic. A Message to Penn Faculty, Staff, and Postdocs December 31, 2021 - We hope that all of you have been enjoying the Winter Break. We are writing with several updates and reminders, as we head into the new year and the new semester, on the following topics: A Message to the Penn Community Regarding the Start of the Spring Semester December 23, 2021 - As we wish you all a joyful and healthy holiday break, we write to update you on our plans to start the new semester in a way that ensures the safest and most fulsome Penn educational experience. A Message to the Penn Community About COVID-19 Booster Shots December 21, 2021 - We are ending this semester as COVID-19 positivity increases on campus and throughout the region. Your health and safety remain our top priorities, and we are committed to continually altering our public health guidance based on current data and the advice of our Penn Medicine colleagues, the Philadelphia Department of Public Health, and state and federal agencies. A Message to Penn Undergraduates December 15, 2021 - The end of the semester has brought us unique challenges, and we greatly appreciate your resilience and partnership. As the number of new cases of COVID-19 continues to increase on campus, and as we start finals week, we want to take extra precautions to minimize the risk of transmission while also reducing any interruptions to your ability to travel and reunite with loved ones during Winter Break. In this spirit, the last day of in-person exams for undergraduate courses will be Friday, December 17. A message to the Penn community about COVID positivity rates December 9, 2021 - Over the past week of testing, we saw more confirmed COVID-19 positive cases after 3 days of testing (133) than we had the previous week (120). New COVID cases are primarily among students and are linked to indoor social gatherings. There still have not been any documented COVID cases of classroom or workplace transmission. Since increases in COVID-19 positivity are also seen in Philadelphia (7%) and Montgomery counties (9.7%), and out of an abundance of caution, the University is announcing that all indoor social events are cancelled for the remainder of the semester. A Message to the University Community: Penn Cares COVID-19 Vaccine Booster Clinic December 7, 2021 - The University will be holding a three-day COVID-19 Vaccine Booster Clinic for all students, faculty, staff, and postdocs on December 15, 16, and 17, at the Gimbel Gymnasium in the Pottruck Health and Fitness Center. A Message to the Penn Community December 1, 2021 - With our return from Thanksgiving Break and as we head into the final weeks of the semester, we know there are concerns about the new Omicron variant. We want you to know that we are working closely with Penn Medicine and our public health experts to monitor and respond to this situation as it evolves. Student Group Social Event Guidance December 1, 2021 - Hello Undergraduate and Graduate Student Organizations, Due to the recent emergence of the Omicron COVID-19 variant and rise in our campus positivity rate, the Public Health Guidance for the campus community has been updated to include social events being planned by student organizations. Social events include parties, formals, and spaces where alcohol is present. A Message to the Penn Community: Increase in Positivity on Campus November 30, 2021 - As we return to campus, we are strongly encouraging all students, faculty, staff, and postdocs to take part in screening testing immediately upon their return – especially those who have travelled or attended large social gatherings over the Thanksgiving break. Our COVID-19 positivity rate on campus and in our surrounding communities has increased over the last week, and early detection will allow us to avoid additional widespread positivity on campus. A Message to Students: Have a Restful, Happy, and Healthy Thanksgiving Break November 17, 2021 - I hope you all have a healthy, happy, and restful Thanksgiving break. As we embark upon peak travel season, I want to share a few public health reminders to help minimize any risk of COVID-19 curtailing your holiday plans: Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 next › last » COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement