Skip to main content Resources for: Faculty and Instructors One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search COVID-19 Safety Resources Search Search Site Navigation Prevention Testing Case Management Vaccination COVID-19 Regulations Resources for: Faculty and Instructors Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give COVID-19 Safety Resources Main navigation Prevention Testing Case Management Vaccination COVID-19 Regulations Homepage Forward Together We are moving forward together in a new chapter in the fight against COVID-19. We all play a role in protecting ourselves and each other. We are prepared with strong plans and safety tools. Free COVID-19 Testing Vaccine Requirement COVID-19 Safety Dashboard Face-Covering Guidance Student Resources | Employee Resources Latest Announcements March 16, 2022 Spring Term Guidance Vice Provost Kimberly Johnson and Associate Vice Provost Lee Rumbarger provide spring term guidance for students. March 3, 2022 Mask Requirement Chief Resilience Officer André Le Duc announces update to mask requirements on campus. February 1, 2022 Booster and instructional updates Provost and Senior Vice President Patrick Phillips shares an update to the booster requirement deadline and winter term instruction. More Announcements What You Need to Know Some COVID-related programs were paused when Lane County maintained a Low COVID-19 Community Level for several months. While in the Medium Community Level, the university continues to monitor the situation and provide case management and COVID-19 testing to in the UO community. If the Community Level increases to High, we will determine which programs and prevention measures to resume based on local public health guidance. Spring Term Spring instruction and operations are in person. The UO is following CDC Guidance for Institutions of Higher Education at the direction of the Oregon Health Authority. COVID-19 safety plans, tools, and requirements to protect the UO community: Vaccinations are required for all students and employees. Booster shots are required for all eligible students and employees. The booster requirement deadline was March 18, 2022. Face coverings are welcome on campus. They are required in some locations such as health care settings including University Health Services (UHS) and Monitoring and Assessment Program (MAP) testing sites. Bring a mask if visiting a place where masks are required. Check your symptoms. Don't come to campus sick. Cleaning and ventilation improvements. We've increased airflow in buildings, clean using OSHA and CDC required methods, and installed touchless bathroom faucets, hand sanitizer, and towel dispensers across campus Vaccination Getting vaccinated is the best thing you can do to prevent serious illness from COVID-19. All students and employees are required to be up to date on COVID-19 vaccinations, this includes getting a booster shot when eligible. Details about reporting process are available on the Student and Employee vaccination requirement webpages. More than 95% of UO students and employees are fully vaccinated. Eugene and the campus neighborhood have high vaccination rates. Proof of vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test is no longer required at most large public events. COVID-19 vaccines are available at public health clinics, pharmacies, and through health care providers. Vaccination Need COVID-19 testing? Free COVID-19 testing is available for UO employees, students, and Lane County residents age 3 and older. MAP test results are available within 2-4 business days. This is not a rapid test. Masks are required at COVID-19 testing sites. Masks should be worn in line even if you are outside. If a student has viral symptoms and is unsure whether they need a medical evaluation, they should contact UHS at 541-346-2770 or their health care provider to determine if and where they should to be tested. Individuals who develop COVID-19 symptoms and have been in close contact with a person known to have COVID-19 should contact their healthcare provider for information on testing. Students may also contact UHS at 541-346-2770. FREE COVID-19 Testing Exposed to COVID-19 or sick? If you have tested positive, develop symptoms, or think you have been exposed to COVID-19: See the guidance on exposure scenarios. Follow this interactive guide to determine whether isolation or testing is needed and next steps. If you are a student living in the residence halls, visit University Housing for information on isolation. Any UO student or employee who has tested positive or has been exposed to COVID-19 may contact the Corona Corps Care Team. The Corona Corps is available with resources, support, and guidance. Questions and Concerns Report bias or harassment Report a concern Report a course concern Support and Resources For Students Academic Resources Academic Advising and Resources Tutoring Study Abroad Financial Assistance Assistance is available for students dealing with serious financial disruptions. The university has received Higher Education Emergency Relief Funds (HEERF) that can be used for any component of the student's cost of attendance or for emergency costs that arise due to the coronavirus pandemic. Information on these funds is available on the financial aid website. All students may also apply for the donor-supported Students in Crisis Fund by calling 541-346-3216 or visiting dos.uoregon.edu. To give to the fund, visit giving.uoregon.edu. More information about support for students facing COVID-19 financial challenges is available on the tuition, financial aid, and fees webpage. Current Tuition and Fee information can be found on the tuition website. On-campus Living Information for students living in the residence halls University Housing FAQs More Student Resources Graduate Student Resources International Students Resources Law Student Resources Portland Student Resources University Health Services For Employees Academic Resources Message to Faculty Academic Council Guidance Academic Continuity Resources Faculty FAQs Employment Resources HR COVID-19 resources for employees and unit leadership Employee leave options Employee assistance program (EAP) Employee engagement guide Research Resources Information for Researchers Frequently Asked Questions about COVID-19 The university is continually updating the FAQs as new guidance and information is shared from the CDC and local, state, and federal health authorities. Prevention Testing Vaccination Tuition, Financial Aid, and Fees Workplace Case Management News and COVID-19 Updates May 23, 2022 COVID-19 Update: Latest News and Announcements Resources and programs during medium community level April 27, 2022 Tracking COVID's effect on South Asian immigrants A new study at the University of Oregon is seeking to better understand the impact of COVID-19 on the South Asian imm April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Update: Latest News and Announcements Resources and programs during low community level All Updates » Before You Come to Campus Image Do a symptom self-check Self-check daily and if COVID-19 symptoms are present, individuals should not come to campus. Image Bring your face covering See face covering information for current guidance and requirements. Image Wash your hands Thorough hand washing and avoiding touching your face help prevent sickness. Resources Campus administrators and staff are actively working to monitor the situation and take precautions to protect the campus community. We have a long-standing university response protocol to support public health within our communities. The Incident Management Team is actively updating plans and protocols in coordination with local, state, and federal health officials. Here are some additional resources you may find helpful to keep you informed. Federal, Local, and State COVID.gov Centers for Disease Control (CDC) [en Español] Oregon Health Authority [en Español] Lane County Public Health [en Español] Multnomah County Public Health Deschutes County Public Health Coos County Public Health Campus University Health Services Health Services for Portland Students Human Resources University Counseling Services Office of the Dean of Students UO Emergency Operations Plan UO Pandemic Response Plan Travel and Study Abroad CDC Travel Notices [en Español] US Department of State Travel Advisories Division of Global Engagement Global Education Oregon International Student and Scholar Services Report a Concern Safety and Risk Services 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 uoem@uoregon.edu Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.