Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass Visitors Visitors to campus and University-sponsored events and gatherings must complete a PennOpen Campus pre-screening on the day they visit. They must present their Green Pass on request. Access information on how PennOpen Campus works. Those living outside of the US should complete their PennOpen Campus upon arrival to campus, as its use may not be accessible in other countries. Individuals who cannot use PennOpen Pass due to technology access or other issues can use the check-in process for people without PennOpen Pass at campus buildings. The University requests that visitors not come physically to campus if they feel ill or have been recently exposed to a case of COVID-19. Although not required at this time, it's strongly encouraged for visitors to be up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations. Visitors should be reminded that they impact 37,000 Penn students, faculty, staff, and postdocs, as well as the surrounding West Philadelphia community. Visitors are required to abide by guidance provided by the City of Philadelphia, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the Centers for Disease and Prevention Control, as well as public health guidance provided by the University. Public health guidance continues to evolve. Individual schools and centers manage their visitor experience and may establish more strict policies regarding mask use, physical distancing, and eating/drinking by visitors inside their campus buildings. Schools and centers may arrange for those who are regularly on campus – such as visiting students, visiting scholars, and other non-Penn individuals – to get PennKey credentials. In those cases, these individuals may enroll in PennOpen Pass to check for daily symptoms and exposure. Women competing in relay race.jpg COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement