Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass COVID-19 & Wellness Penn-Cares-logo-horizontal_full color_CRS-402x97.png Student Wellness Mental and Emotional Wellbeing: Be Well Stress Reduction sessions and tips and support resources to manage your mental health Physical Fitness: Fitness Education Resources Sleep Health: tips to sleep well during the COVID-19 pandemic Faculty and Staff Wellness Visit MindWell at Penn and the Well-being Resources for Times of Transition pages for an overview of Penn's employee wellness resrouces. Penn's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) offers emotional support via phone or video. Call 1-866-799-2329 or visit www.hr.upenn.edu/EAP. Penn Cobalt matches faculty, staff, and postdocs to mental health resources and the appropriate level of group and individual mental health and well-being support. Visit Penn Healthy You for exercise workshops, nutrition counseling, online mindfulness resources and upcoming wellness events. Caregiver Resources and Support: Penn offers several resources and tips for finding and providing care for children and adults. COVID-19 and Wellness Resources at Penn The COVID-19 pandemic has been stressful for all—physically, mentally, and emotionally. It's important to make sure you are taking care of yourself while coping with the challenges of this pandemic. Connect: It may be challenging to feel connected during the pandemic. Although you are likely social distancing from others, remember that we are relational beings and we need human connection. Be creative about connecting and checking in with others: call, video chat, text, email, send cards or care packages. Reflect: We are all likely experiencing a range of emotional discomforts. The situation is new and unpredictable, which can be unsettling for most of us. We have all been asked to change our daily routines, modify our learning and working environments, and adapt our social relationships in significant ways. Journaling and engaging in mindfulness can be helpful in recognizing your responses to these changes while also creating an avenue to express yourself. During times of uncertainty, finding ways to maintain a self-care routine can help our minds and bodies cope. Support: Remember to seek support when you need it, and to lend support to others when they need it. A simple act can let someone know you care. If you see someone is having a tough time during this pandemic, be open to supporting them while honoring your own boundaries. Supporting someone can include connecting them with the appropriate Wellness Resources. Public Health Guidance In an effort to keep everyone within the Penn community well, it is critical that we adhere to the recommended public health guidelines. masks.jpg COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement