Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance Dashboard Vaccines Testing Information for... Latest Messages Resources Search Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance COVID-19 vaccine Flu vaccine Community Dashboard Testing Additional Resources $sLabel Home COVID-19 vaccine AAA COVID-19 vaccine Vaccinations Students are strongly encouraged to be vaccinated against COVID-19 to safeguard their health and the health of all members of our University and South Florida communities. Faculty, staff, and postdoctoral associates are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 for the 2021–22 academic year or request an applicable exemption. To be fully vaccinated, you must be at least two weeks past receiving your final vaccine dose and appropriate booster shot. HOW TO UPLOAD VACCINE DOCUMENTATION Employees must upload proof of vaccination, including booster shots, or seek an approved exemption in Workday by Jan. 18, 2022, the day spring classes begin. Those who are not yet within the booster window will be required to receive their booster shots as early as possible once they become eligible. Employees can submit COVID-19 vaccination confirmation into Workday by following one of the methods below: 1. If you previously uploaded your vaccination confirmation to your MyUHealthChart account and would like validation to be automatically transferred to Workday, you must authorize release of this information. No medical information will be provided to Workday in this transfer. Click here for instructions. And for further assistance, please review this tip sheet. 2. Alternatively, if you wish to upload a copy of your COVID-19 Vaccination Record Card directly into Workday, click here to review the instructions. 3. Additional details about how to upload booster information can be found here. HOW TO REQUEST A VACCINE EXEMPTION The deadline for faculty, staff, and postdoctoral associates to seek a COVID-19 vaccination exemption was Aug. 1, 2021. Please contact your HR Partner with questions. Individuals who have been approved for a COVID-19 vaccine exemption will be required to take a weekly COVID-19 test and continue to wear masks in all indoor spaces. Exemptions to the vaccination requirement that have already been granted will apply to booster shots; requests for continued exemptions are not required if granted previously. VACCINATION LOCATIONS COVID-19 vaccines are available to all University of Miami employees through the Walgreens in UHealth Tower at 1400 NW 12th Avenue. Appointments are required and can be scheduled by calling 305-702-9066. Additionally, students and employees can find vaccination locations nearest them by visiting vaccinefinder.org. Contacts and resources For more information: COVID-19 vaccine email for help For UHealth and Miller School employees: Visit UMed Insider Information from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: COVID-19 vaccine information University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices