Skip to the content Coronavirus Response Toggle the mobile menu Toggle the search field Updates Community Messages For Students For Faculty For Staff For Patients Travel Updates Duke Kunshan More Information Duke Covid Testing Tracker If You Feel Sick Resources for Support School & Program Information Duke Experts in the News Information for Researchers Together Duke: Giving Back Staffing & Work Events Search Search Updates Community Messages For Students For Faculty For Staff For Patients Travel Updates Duke Kunshan More Information Duke Covid Testing Tracker If You Feel Sick Resources for Support School & Program Information Duke Experts in the News Information for Researchers Together Duke: Giving Back Staffing & Work Events 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) This site provides the Duke community with important updates related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Duke University’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic is focused on the safety of our health care providers, our staff, our faculty and students and the public we serve. The primary goals are to protect public health, support patient care and clinical staff at Duke Health, and continue the institution’s vital missions of education and research. You can find specific information, including responses to frequently asked questions, on the sites below: Duke’s Vaccine Information site Duke United Keep Working Flexible Teaching Latest Updates Vaccine Booster Available for Children Ages 5-11 May 23, 2022 May 20, 2022 Faculty and Staff, Late last week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention approved a booster dose the Pfizer vaccine for children Masking Requirement for Summer Session May 11, 2022 TO:Vice Presidents, Vice Provosts, Deans, Directors, Department Heads, and ManagersFROM:Sally A. Kornbluth, Provost and Jo Rae Wright University ProfessorPaul Grantham, Assistant Vice President, Deputy Emergency Testing Update: April 25 - May 1, 2022 May 2, 2022 Duke’s COVID-19 testing program ended on May 1, 2022, for the Spring 2022 semester. Testing Update: April 18 - April 24, 2022 April 25, 2022 Duke’s COVID-19 testing program continues into the Spring 2022 semester. Results are updated every Monday afternoon. Testing Update: April 11 - April 17, 2022 April 18, 2022 Duke’s COVID-19 testing program continues into the Spring 2022 semester. Results are updated every Monday afternoon. 1 2 3 … 68 » Important Resources Flexible Teaching and Keep Teaching Keep Working Research-related Updates How to Protect You and Your Family from COVID-19 (DukeHealth.org) The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The World Health Organization has information, documents and situation reports related to 2019 novel coronavirus. The World Health Organization (W.H.O.) provides a brief overview of the 2019 Novel Coronavirus in this video. The Duke Kunshan University website Information about the seasonal flu for the Duke community Search Search Updates Community Messages For Students For Faculty For Staff For Patients Travel Updates Duke Kunshan More Information Duke Covid Testing Tracker Vaccine Information If You Feel Sick Resources for Support School & Program Information Duke Experts in the News Information for Researchers Together Duke: Giving Back Staffing & Work Working Remotely Events Duke Travel Registry Enter international travel plans into the Duke Travel Registry so administrators can locate and assist you when an emergency situation occurs. Arriving or Returning from abroad? Duke students, faculty and staff returning to the U.S. from abroad can find more information about what to do here. Duke Duke University 2080 Duke University Road Durham, NC 27708 (919) 684-8111 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Duke Today Duke News Powered by WordPress & Theme by Anders Norén