Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance Dashboard Vaccines Testing Information for... Latest Messages Resources Search Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance Flu vaccine Community Dashboard Testing Additional Resources $sLabel Home Flu Vaccine AAA Flu vaccine As part of the University of Miami’s COVID-19 response, students, faculty, and staff on all campuses are required to receive the seasonal flu vaccine. Flu shots are currently available for students, faculty, and staff by appointment at multiple locations on and off campus. Important dates: Official launch: Tuesday, Sept. 7, 2021 Exemption submission deadline for students on the Coral Gables and Marine campuses: Friday, Oct. 22, 2021 Exemption submission deadline for faculty, staff, and students on the Medical Campus: Wednesday, Nov. 17, 2021 Compliance deadline for faculty and staff: Wednesday, Nov. 17, 2021 Information for faculty and staff: Visit the employee health website for details on flu shot locations, available flu shots, Workday documentation requirements, the exemption process, and frequently asked questions. Information for students: Visit the Student Health Service website for details on documentation, scheduling an appointment for a flu shot at Student Health, and the exemption process. Students on the Coral Gables and Marine campuses are required to receive their flu shot or request an exemption by Friday, Oct. 22; students on the Medical Campus have until Wednesday, Nov. 17. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices