Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance Dashboard Vaccines Testing Information for... Latest Messages Resources Search Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance Flu vaccine Community Dashboard Testing Additional Resources $sLabel Home Community Dashboard AAA Community Dashboard The University of Miami COVID-19 Dashboard provides the latest results of our COVID-19 testing and is updated daily at 11 a.m. and 7 p.m. ET. The University enrolls more than 17,000 students and employs more than 16,000 people across three campuses: the Coral Gables Campus, the Medical Campus in downtown Miami, and the Marine Campus on Virginia Key. The dashboard pulls University, county, state, and national data from multiple sources and may take a few moments to load. A mobile-friendly version of this dashboard can be viewed in the UMiami app, which is available on the Apple App Store and on Google Play. Note: The University’s UScreen surveillance testing program for students and employees was discontinued effective Friday, April 1, 2022. On-campus testing for individuals who experience COVID-19 symptoms continues to be available. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices