Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass Guests On Campus As a guest on campus or a participant in a Penn program, you agree to adhere to public health guidelines to keep our campus safe. Further, you agree to follow all federal, state, city, and University of Pennsylvania directives, policies, protocols, and procedures related to COVID-19. Violation of any such directives, policies, protocols and procedures may result in your removal from the program and a restriction from campus. You also understand that prior COVID-19 illness or vaccination against COVID-19 does not absolve you from following all public health guidance. PennOpen Campus PennOpen Campus must be used by University program participants, occasional visitors, vendors who are not regularly on campus, and non-badged contractors. How It Works Access PennOpen Campus each day on your mobile device or computer before arriving on campus. Your program may conduct a verbal attestation process on campus if you do not have a mobile device or computer. Answer the prompted questions on the day of your visit before arriving to campus. Screening reduces the risk that any COVID-19 case could lead to infecting others on campus. When you report no symptoms, no recent contact with someone who may have COVID-19, and no recent positive test, you will recieve a Green Pass. Stay home and contact your primary care provider if you do not get a Green Pass. A Green Pass is valid only one day and contains a random, three-character code generated daily to help secure the integrity of the program. Show your Green Pass as requested on campus or at University-sponsored events. Follow other University public health guidance. Passes can be sent to an email address or mobile device via text message. Passes sent via email/text can be used for access. Important Information Individuals who cannot use PennOpen Pass due to technology access or other issues can use the check-in process for people without PennOpen Pass at campus buildings. You do not need to install PennOpen Campus on your smartphone, tablet, or computer. PennOpen Campus is a mobile friendly website that runs in your mobile device’s web browser, just like any other website that you would visit. If you are under 18 years of age, completing PennOpen Campus assumes your parents and/or guardians have provided consent in the Penn program in which you are involved. The University will not retain personally identifiable data entered in PennOpen Campus. Penn faculty, postdocs, staff, students, and enrolled vendors and contractors who routinely report to campus must continue to use their University credentials with traditional PennOpen Pass. COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement