Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance Dashboard Vaccines Testing Information for... Latest Messages Resources Search Students and families Employees Faculty and researchers In the news Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance Students and families Employees Faculty and researchers In the news $sLabel Home Information for... Faculty and Researchers AAA Information for faculty and researchers Students and families Employees Faculty and researchers In the news Learning continuity Information and resources for faculty members teaching in the fall semester Faculty information Travel information Teaching in the fall semester Teaching resources Faculty FAQs Latest messages for faculty Research Continuity Tools and information for research continuity Research SOP ORA readiness for research continuity regarding COVID-19 Research continuation guidance Research FAQs Guidelines for ramping up human-subject research Latest Messages for Researchers Modification to Campus Operations (Feb. 5-16) Frequently Asked Questions Faculty information 1. Academic calendar Spring 2022 classes will begin on Tuesday, Jan. 18, and conclude on Monday, May 2. Final exams will take place May 4-11. The most updated Spring 2022 calendar is now available. 2. Faculty Club The Faculty Club will reopen on March 7. Hours of operation will be Monday through Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. For more information or to provide feedback, email diningservices@miami.edu or call 305-284-3584. 3. Intellectual property Faculty members work hard to create their courses, and this semester is certainly no exception. The University affirms its commitment that your coursework is yours by reiterating the longstanding University statements on this. Specifically, pursuant to the University’s Policy on Inventions, Intellectual Property, and Technology Transfer, “courseware” includes course syllabi, assignments, assessments, and/or other materials that are first created and made available to students as part of the educational curriculum at the University. Courseware is owned by the faculty member, unless otherwise agreed to beforehand in a written contract between the University and the faculty member. This policy and position has not changed due to recent circumstances. Because of the unique nature of the asynchronous format, however, materials developed for such instruction will not be used for faculty reviews. Review of materials hosted on Blackboard, or any other classroom management software, will be governed by the University’s Policy on the Use of Computing Facilities, which requires notice to the affected individual in the unlikely event of a review. 4. Personal Safety Protocols Face masks are required in classrooms and all indoor public spaces where two or more people are present. Please use this illustration on proper mask usage at the start of your class and/or include it in your syllabi. Testing sites are located at Pavia Garage and the McKnight Building. Visit coronavirus.miami.edu/testing for more details. View additional information about student safety COVID-19 protocols. Faculty and staff members who have an approved vaccine exemption must test once per week, regardless of whether they plan to be on campus. 5. Library services Information regarding library services for faculty members is available at https://www.library.miami.edu/about/faculty.html. Online resources for faculty members are available through University of Miami Libraries 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Books and materials can be requested for pick up at Richter Library and other libraries. Teaching in the spring semester 1. Preparing to teach a Spring 2022 class Classes will start on time Tuesday, Jan. 18, 2022. However, we will pivot to remote instruction for the first two weeks of the spring semester, with in-person instruction resuming on Jan. 31. In order to ensure continuity in teaching and learning, all courses and lectures should be recorded for students who are quarantined/isolated and for those whose arrival is delayed. Please remember to contact and email students to ensure they have all the details on how to access your courses, especially during the first two weeks of the semester. You can do this through Blackboard or CaneLink. If you are not utilizing Blackboard, email students directly prior to the first day of class to provide information on online course accessibility, details, and materials. Spring 2022 Semester Prep Guide: This helpful document includes tips and suggestions for what you can expect for the first two weeks of the semester, how to facilitate live virtual class sessions on Zoom and Blackboard, how to provide course materials to students, and how to support students during these remote teaching weeks. The document’s appendix includes technical support and tutorials for using Zoom and Blackboard as part of your remote teaching. Online Teaching Workshops: During the week of Jan. 10, we will offer a series of online teaching virtual workshops focusing on making the first two weeks of the semester successful. The workshop session topics and schedule have been posted to the Academic Continuity Guide, and you can view the session offerings and attend any sessions that will support your teaching needs 2. Required course syllabi updated language The following instructions should be included in course syllabi and reviewed with students. Lecture capture Professors are encouraged to record classes and make them available synchronously and asynchronously for quarantined/isolated students and for those whose arrival is delayed. For some courses, alternative mechanisms for providing access to course materials will be needed. One can record classes via a laptop with Zoom, Microsoft Teams, or Blackboard Collaborate, the same tools used for video conferencing. We will continue to schedule 25 minutes between classes to support any necessary extra preparation. Closed captioning of your lecture can be enabled on these services to assist students with certain impairments and meet our obligations under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Instructions are available for enabling captioning during virtual activities. Additionally, it is recommended to include this language regarding class recordings in your syllabi. Additional information to include in your syllabi concerns the newly created Student Well-Being and Resiliency page: Well-Being Resources and Support As you complete your coursework, consider how you can maintain your health and well-being as a top priority. To help you become familiar with the many programs and services available on campus, review the information collected on the Division of Student Affairs Student Well-Being and Resiliency website available at miami.edu/well-being. Please reach out to me or any of the resources listed on that site if you need assistance or support throughout the semester. Attendance policy Faculty members should still specify their attendance policies in course syllabi and enforce these with exceptions made on a case-by-case basis for students who are unable to attend class because of Q/I status or because of delayed arrival. If at some point in the semester a student cannot physically attend class sessions because of illness, injury, isolation, or quarantine, they must contact the instructor to determine how to make up the work and catch up with the material. Instructors may request documentation, such as a medical attestation, from a medical provider or absence verification from Student Health Service. Unexcused absences may affect the student’s grade or lead to failing the course. Face coverings The University updated its mask guidelines, consistent with CDC guidance, effective March 1, 2022. Please refer to updated guidance found elsewhere on this page. Face coverings are mandatory at all times while in classroom spaces on our campuses. Failure to follow this requirement will result in disciplinary action for students and faculty and staff members. This is a matter of public health in which the entire community must act in concert to help one another. The CDC does not recommend use of face shields for normal everyday activities or as a substitute for cloth face coverings; for special circumstances, they can be used by those with conditions that prevent other forms of face covering. Appropriate masks tightly cover the entire nose and mouth. Faculty members should include explicit policies requiring face coverings and appropriate physical distancing while in the classroom, laboratory, or studio in their course syllabi. Reinforcing this requirement and the right of a faculty member to restrict a student from participating in person should be clearly stated in the syllabus. “Face coverings are mandatory at all times (with the exception of when drinking water) while in on-campus class sessions. Failure to follow this requirement is grounds for disciplinary action and may lead to removal from the course.” Intellectual property We recommend that faculty members note in their syllabi that “Professor X is the copyright owner of the courseware. Individual recordings of the materials on Blackboard and/or of the virtual sessions are not allowed, and such materials cannot be shared outside the physical or virtual classroom environment.” Online exams with Respondus LockDown Browser in Blackboard It is important to clearly state on the syllabus how students will be assessed. If you plan to give online exams using the Respondus LockDown Browser available in Blackboard, students must install the Respondus LockDown Browser software on their personal computer before taking the exam. The webcam feature (Respondus Monitor) will record the student during the online exam so each student’s personal computer must have a webcam, microphone, and broadband connection. Students can download and install the LockDown Browser with this link. Students can also review instructions in the Student Quick Start Guide. 3. Face coverings Effective March 1, 2022, and in accordance with CDC guidance, masks are no longer required in indoor spaces on the Coral Gables and Marine campuses. (The Medical Campus should continue to follow guidance issued by UHealth communications.) While masks are now optional, they are helpful in preventing infection and will continue to be needed in certain circumstances: Immunocompromised individuals or those who are at high risk for severe illness should continue to wear high-grade masks. Individuals who test positive must wear a high-grade mask at all times around others for a period of five days following their isolation period. Individuals who are experiencing COVID-like symptoms, regardless of test result, should wear a high-grade mask around others. Individuals who are identified as close contacts of COVID-positive subjects should wear masks until they have tested negative according to the protocol. There are different levels of vulnerability. Individuals who wish to wear a mask for their protection are encouraged to do so, and that decision should be respected by all members of our community. 4. Facilities sanitation and setup Classroom furniture has been reset with appropriate distancing. Air handling and filtration systems have been refreshed again this year and are comparable to medical air filtration. HVAC preventative maintenance and MERV13 filter replacement have been completed. Hand sanitizers and wipes have been placed in classrooms and will be replenished on a daily basis or as needed. We have applied an antimicrobial protectant spray in classrooms. And nightly sanitation, including application of antimicrobial protectant spray, will be conducted in all classrooms. There will be enhanced cleaning in common areas and classrooms. Disinfection of all classrooms will be done nightly with EPA registered fogging systems. Faculty members are responsible for: Cleaning and disinfecting podium area (wipe down podium, microphone, keyboard/mouse, etc.) immediately upon entering the class. Teaching Resources 1. Copyright guidance As we move to teaching online during this extraordinary time, all instructional personnel must consider copyright issues raised by making certain materials available digitally. Please review the general copyright guidance from the Office of the Provost. 2. Classroom technology support IT Support: To help ensure a successful period of remote teaching and learning, there will also be increased IT presence during the first two weeks of the semester. If you need any support with Blackboard, please email blackboardhelp@miami.edu or call (305) 284-3949 for the Learning Platforms help desk. For all other IT-related issues, please email help@miami.edu or call (305) 284-6565. The Office of Classroom Management (OCM) has technology support staff that can assist with requests, as needed. If you have any questions, please call OCM Classroom Support at 305-284-3263 or email classroomsupport@miami.edu. 3. Campus signage “Mask Required” signage has been installed in classrooms and common areas. A-frame signage and digital signage is being utilized throughout campuses reminding the University community to wear masks. “Hand washing” signage has been installed in restrooms. Additional outdoor seating is being installed to help maintain safe distancing. Elevators will display footprint graphics to help maintain appropriate social distancing. Frequently asked questions (FAQs) from faculty Open All Tabs How will hallway congregation be managed? Will rooms be unlocked ahead of class time to limit congregation in hallways? Reduction in the size of classes and hybrid-learning options will reduce overall density in hallways. It’s also critical for members of the University community take personal responsibility for avoiding unnecessary congregations of people. All classrooms are on pre-set locking plans based on the scheduled use of the room. Students are discouraged from arriving well before their classes and lingering in confined areas such as hallways. Will students be provided with face shields if their class work requires facial expression? Wearing facial coverings or masks is mandatory on all University campuses and a way for each member of our community to do their part in contributing to the overall safety of the institution. Select learning environments may require alternate personal protective equipment. These unique circumstances will be managed by the faculty member teaching the class and additional directions will be provided to all students in those sections. Will professors have the option to hold their classes outside, depending on weather? If weather permits; this will be solely at the faculty member’s discretion. If I have more questions, whom should I contact? For more information, please contact provost.office@miami.edu. Research continuity ORA readiness for research continuity regarding COVID-1 The Office of Research Administration (ORA) is proactively addressing how to best serve your needs for contract and grant administration. At the highest level, we want to maintain our activities. Based upon current University direction and agency updates, ORA is open for business and will continue to be while practicing social distancing and using our current technology to serve your pre- and post-award needs. We will also be sending out updates from sponsoring agencies as received and be available for questions. If you would like to contact someone about a specific issue, please connect to the following link for the individual best suited to know your proposal and/or award. https://www.ora.miami.edu/about-ora/contact-us/who-is-my-ora-contact-person/index.html Frequently asked questions (FAQs) about research Open All Tabs What considerations are being made for vulnerable staff returning to work? Questions related to returning to work for vulnerable personnel should be directed toward an employee’s HR partner. When possible, we encourage researchers to engage vulnerable personnel in work that does not require them to be on campus. However, if a job cannot be performed remotely, Paid Time Off (PTO) can be used (vacation, sick, or floating holidays). If all PTO has been exhausted, employees may use up to 21 days of future sick time. Does the research team need to obtain IRB approval to resume activities such as enrollments or follow-up of participants on campus? Not if they already had those sites in their IRB approval. Can we resume activities at Jackson Health, such as enrollments and follow-up of participants? A stop research order was never enacted for Jackson Health and as long as you have an approved IRB and SOP you can engage in activities there. If you are conducting research at Jackson you must follow the guidelines outlined in your approved SOP, as well as any additional guidance or recommendations specified by Jackson for conducting research in its clinical space. What is the status monitor visits at UM? We are discouraging monitors from coming to campus in person. When possible, monitoring should be conducted remotely in the short term through electronic documentation. If there is a very important monitoring visit that needs to be done on-site, please email Dr. Carl Schulman (CSchulman@med.miami.edu) and Dr. Erin Kobetz (EKobetz@med.miami.edu) for review and approval. Are non-essential research activities that must be carried out in person—such as sensory testing on the skin—allowed to resume with the proper SOP in place, disinfecting of equipment, and PPE for everyone? Clinical research is allowed when you have participants that are already enrolled in clinical trials and/or your clinical research is associated with significant potential clinical benefits to those patients (and as long as the clinic approves research staff presence in the clinic). If a patient is not attending the clinic for clinical visits, they should not be called in just to provide research data. Will the University provide N95 masks for those with underlying conditions where there would be a heightened risk of exposure? The supply of regular N95 masks is limited, and physicians have been reserving them for extremely high-risk situations, such as putting in a chest tube. Latest messages for faculty and researchers TITLE SUMMARY DATE COPY THIS LINK Load More University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices