Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass Vaccinations Penn-Cares-logo-horizontal_full-color_Educate-Participate-Vaccinate.jpg402x98.jpg Booster Shots Required for Students, Faculty, Staff, Postdocs All students, faculty, and staff are required to receive a COVID-19 booster shot. Anyone who is not yet eligible for the booster must receive the shot within 30 days of becoming eligible. Visit the Public Health Guidance page for more information. All students should upload their booster documentation to their Student Health Portal. Faculty, staff, and postdocs should upload their information into Workday. Step-by-step instructions for uploading vaccine information into Workday can be found here: Self Service: Enter Vaccination Information. Student Vaccination Reporting All students must upload proof of COVID-19 vaccination to the Student Health Service portal. Upload instructions for existing students Upload instructions for new students If traveling to campus and not fully vaccinated, visit the Getting Vaccinated page to find where to get a vaccine. Students can also email Wellness at Penn (chiefwellnessofficer@upenn.edu) for help with scheduling vaccine appontments as soon as possible. Visit the Public Health Guidance page for the latest information. Faculty, Staff, and Postdoc Vaccination Reporting Upload your vaccination information in Workday; access self-service instructions on the Workday@Penn website. Consistent with the recently revised Philadelphia Department of Public Health (PDPH) guidance, the University requires all faculty, staff, and postdocs to be fully vaccinated, except for those with medical or religious exemptions. Unless you are granted an exemption, failure to report full vaccination will result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Student Vaccination Exemptions Undergraduate, graduate and professional students may request an exemption from the University of Pennsylvania COVID-19 vaccination mandate. Information can be found on the Student Health Service website. Faculty, Staff, and Postdoc Vaccination Exemptions Faculty, staff, and postdoctoral trainees are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, unless they have an approved medical or religious exemption. COVID-19 vaccination should be uploaded into Workday. To request an exemption from the University of Pennsylvania COVID-19 vaccination mandate, please download, read, complete, and submit the following forms, as appropriate: University of Pennsylvania Medical Exemption Request Form University of Pennsylvania Religious Exemption Request Form What does it mean to be fully vaccinated? An individual is not considered fully vaccinated until: 2 weeks after their second dose in a 2-dose series (example: Pfizer or Moderna vaccines) or 2 weeks after a single-dose vaccine (example: Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen vaccine) Penn will accept those vaccines that have been “pre-qualified” or authorized for “Emergency Use Listing” (EUL) by the World Health Organization (WHO) evaluation process. As of July 13, that list includes: Pfizer-BioNTech (fully approved by the U.S. FDA) Moderna Johnson & Johnson/Janssen AstraZeneca Covishield Sinopharm Sinovac Booster Shots (Third Doses) of the COVID-19 Vaccine According to the CDC, individuals are eligible for a booster five months after their second dose of a Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna vaccine, or two months after receiving the Johnson and Johnson vaccine. Those who received a vaccine listed on the World Health Organization’s emergency use listing are eligible for a Pfizer-BioNTech booster shot five months after completion of their vaccination series. For more information, visit the CDC’s COVID-19 Vaccine Booster Shots website. Get Your Vaccine Vaccines are now required for students, faculty, staff, and postdocs. Visit the Getting Vaccinated page for more information about the Penn Cares vaccine clinic. Find out where you can get a vaccine near you by visiting vaccines.gov. If you would like more information about the vaccine or to schedule a vaccine appointment, you can call the Penn Medicine COVID-19 Vaccine Scheduling Hotline& between 8 am and 5 pm, Monday through Friday, at 267-758-4902. COVID-19 Vaccine Resources A COVID vaccine for kids - Penn Today Penn Medicine vaccine-related information. The science behind COVID-19 vaccines: A conversation with Penn Medicine physician Dr. Drew Weismann. P.J. Brennan, MD, Chief Medical Officer at Penn Medicine, answers questions about the COVID-19 vaccine. Vaccine safety and efficacy - Johns Hopkins Medicine The long view on COVID-19 vaccine safety and efficacy - Penn Today What you can safely do after being fully vaccinated - Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Understanding and addressing barriers to COVID vaccine acceptance - Penn Today Educate. Participate. Vaccinate. Visit the Penn Cares Videos webpage to hear from Penn Community members about why they chose to get vaccinated. Also, learn about the COVID-19 vaccine, some common reasons for hesitancy surrounding it, side effects, efficacy, and more. Watch the Videos COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement