Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass Getting Vaccinated Penn-Cares-logo-horizontal_full-color_Educate-Participate-Vaccinate.jpg402x98.jpg Where to Get Vaccinated Find the closest retail pharmacy offering COVID-19 vaccines near you by visiting vaccines.gov/search. Vaccines are available for University students, faculty, and staff at the following Penn Medicine location: Penn Presbyterian Medical Center 51 N. 39th Street, Philadelphia, PA 1st floor lobby, Wright Saunders Building By appointment only. If you would like more information about the vaccine or to schedule a vaccine appointment, you can call the Penn Medicine COVID-19 Vaccine Scheduling Hotline between 8 am and 5 pm, Monday through Friday, at 267-758-4902. Why I Got Vaccinated Visit the Penn Cares Videos webpage to hear Penn Community members share their thoughts about why they chose to get vaccinated. Watch the Videos Vaccine Resources The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently released new guidance surrounding mask wearing for fully vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals. Staying up to date about the COVID-19 safety guidelines and protocols is part of the vaccine education process. Visit the Vaccinations webpage for several resources about how vaccines work, what you can do after full vaccination, and more. Vaccine Resources Vaccine Acceptance Clinical studies show that vaccines are safe and will protect individuals from developing serious illness if they contract the virus. However, some people experience what has been called vaccine hesitancy. A Penn Today article, Understanding and addressing barriers to COVID vaccine acceptance, explores how different communities feel about getting their shot. Click the button below to read the story. For more vaccine resources, visit the Vaccinations website. Barriers to Vaccine Acceptance COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement