Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass Penn Cares Videos Learn more about the COVID-19 Vaccine Educate. Participate. Vaccinate. The Penn Community shares their individual reasons for getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Educate. Participate. Vaccinate. It's critical that we all continue to participate in public health guidance of masking, distancing and washing, even after we are fully vaccinated. Educate. Participate. Vaccinate. Learn about the COVID-19 vaccine and some common reasons for hesitancy surrounding it, in addition to its side effects, efficacy and more. One Year Commemoration To mark one year since COVID-19 changed our lives, we honor the essential workers within our entire Penn Community for their selfless work and dedication. Welcome from Dr. Benoit Dubé Dr. Dubé welcomes students back to campus for a virtual Spring semesterm amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Penn Cares Screening Testing Sites Watch the Penn Cares screening test sites come to life on campus in preparation for the Spring Semester. COVID-19 Safety Benoit Dubé, MD, associate provost and chief wellness officer at the University of Pennsylvania, talks to the University community about COVID-19 safety on campus. Penn Nursing Students Assist at Testing Sites Penn's Nursing Students help with greeting people, temperature screenings, travel-related questioning, and orienting students to PennOpen Pass. COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement