Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance Dashboard Vaccines Testing Information for... Latest Messages Resources Search Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance Flu vaccine Community Dashboard Testing Additional Resources $sLabel Home Testing AAA Testing Due to the dramatic decline in cases and high rate of vaccination across our campuses, we are adjusting our COVID-19 surveillance testing protocols on the Coral Gables and Marine campuses. The UScreen surveillance testing program for students and employees will be discontinued, effective Friday, April 1, 2022. Testing for individuals who are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms will continue, but at new testing site locations. Employees: For employees who have an approved exemption and have been testing regularly, testing is no longer required. Employees who are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms should not come to work and should call the COVID-19 hotline at 305-243-ONE-U to schedule a testing appointment at one of the on-campus testing sites—McKnight Healthy ’Canes Clinic for employees on the Coral Gables and Marine campuses, or PAC Healthy ’Canes Clinic for employees on the Medical Campus. Employees also may test at a local site, pharmacy, or UHealth Clinic at Walgreens and upload their results. Students: Students who are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms should self-isolate and call 305-243-ONE-U to schedule a testing appointment at Student Health Service. Appointments also can be made via myUHealthChart. While walk-in testing for students is available, appointments are encouraged. Hours of operation are available on the Student Health Service website. Anyone who has questions regarding any COVID-19 guideline should email COVIDCMO@miami.edu. Our health and wellness protocols have been, and will continue to be, responsive to the latest trends and public health guidance. Should there be an increase in the infection rate in our community, surveillance testing may resume. We will continue to communicate any changes to guidance or campus protocols, and we appreciate your understanding, flexibility, and commitment to the wellbeing of all ’Canes. On behalf of the entire University community, we offer our sincere thanks to all members of the UScreen team for their important work and dedication over the past nearly two years to help safeguard the health and wellness of our University of Miami community. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices