Skip to main content UC Berkeley Coronavirus Toggle navigation MENUMENU Updates and planning Previous updates Campus messages Dashboard (confirmed cases) COVID-19: Explained Berkeley at Home Berkeley Conversations Campus Conversations COVID-19 Research Recovery planning Response and Recovery newsletter Study participation UC Berkeley experts Campus operations Instruction Research Libraries COVID-19 Prevention Program Events Instructor guidance (spring 2022) Support and accommodations Wi-Fi Health and prevention CA Notify Daily symptom screener Dashboard Testing Face coverings Family and domestic violence Health advisory Health and safety concern reporting Mental health resources for students Social Norms Campaign Vaccines Contact tracing Faculty and staff Campus access Flexible work arrangements Faculty leaves and pay Staff leaves and pay CareBubbles Caring for families People Cards Travel University of California updates Wellness Workfit online fitness classes Students Undergraduate students Graduate students International students and scholars Admitted students Basic needs CareBubbles Caring for families Dining Financial Aid and Scholarships Housing Laptops and Wi-Fi Rec Sports Student grievances Travel University Village COVID-19 resources. Dashboard Testing data and trends, updated daily. Positive tests What to do if you test positive for COVID-19. Masks Campus mask requirements. Monday, May 23, 2022 - noon The updated training course, EHS 207: UC Berkeley Guidelines on Protecting Workers from COVID-19 (Revised 5/10/2022), is required by Cal/OSHA and must be completed by all faculty, staff, postdocs, and student workers. Even if an employee has taken the prior version of EHS 207, they still must take this updated course. The course takes approximately 15-minutes. Take the online training now or read below to learn more. About EHS 207 Guidelines on Protecting Workers from COVID-19 UC Berkeley has updated its COVID-19 safety training course with additional information required by the COVID-19 prevention emergency regulation (8 CCR 3205), which was readopted with changes on 4/22/2022. This training also reflects updated University of California policies to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19 in the workplace. The required online training is designed to reduce the risk of UC Berkeley employees getting COVID-19 while working on campus during the coronavirus pandemic. Take the online training or learn more. Resources EHS 207 Training - Accessible Transcript (PDF) Coronavirus Campus Updates COVID-19 Prevention Program (CPP) Response and Recovery Newsletter Tuesday, May 10, 2022 - 9:30 a.m. As of Friday, May 6, completing the Daily Symptom Screener is no longer required. Instead, you are required to self-assess your symptoms each day before coming to campus. You should not come to campus if you have had any new and unusual symptoms of COVID-19 (not attributed to a previously known medical condition) in the last 24 hours. Please also refer to the contact tracing and close exposures page for additional guidance. Along with the Daily Symptom Screener, the Campus Access Badge is no longer required. Both tools will be preserved in case it is necessary to bring them back into use in the future. Tuesday, April 26, 2022 - noon Cal/OSHA recently made its third and final revision to the COVID-19 Emergency Temporary Standard. The Campus COVID-19 Prevention Plan has been updated accordingly. The new ETS will go into effect on May 6 and will remain in effect through Dec. 31, 2022. Notable changes include: Employees will now be able to pick up N-95 respirators instead of KN-95 masks. When there is an outbreak and testing is required, employees can now self-administer and self-read their own tests so long as they provide a date stamped photo of the results (removed requirement for proctored test). Employees not fully vaccinated are no longer required to wear face coverings indoors. Cleaning and disinfection requirements are removed. Employers are no longer obligated to exclude an employee who has a “close contact” from work. Instead, the employer must develop/implement its own policy to prevent transmission of COVID-19 by those employees with close contacts, in accordance with CDPH guidance. Procedures for outbreaks have been updated and will be implemented by Environment, Health & Safety in accordance with §3205.1. Previous updates External resources City of Berkeley Public Health California Department of Public Health Centers for Disease Control and Prevention University of California California Guidelines for Higher Education Institutions CDC Guidance for Higher Education Contact us Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy