Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance Dashboard Vaccines Testing Information for... Latest Messages Resources Search Dashboard Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Flu Vaccine Testing Information for... Students and Families Faculty and Researchers Employees Media and News Latest Messages Resources Additional Resources Event Guidance Travel Guidance Students and families Employees Faculty and researchers In the news $sLabel Home Information for... Students and families AAA Information for students and families Please click here to review the latest COVID-19 update and important spring semester information Vaccinations Testing Quarantine and Isolation Contact Tracing Masks and Face Coverings Wastewater Surveillance Classroom Distancing CARES Act Funding Committed to the Latest Guidelines We’re Here to Help The information on this page provides details about our protocols for the academic year. To safeguard your health and the health of all ’Canes, and in accordance with the latest public health recommendations, we are maintaining several COVID-19 safety guidelines. The information below should assist you in preparing for a vibrant campus experience. Please review it carefully. If you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms or believe you have been exposed to the virus, call the University’s COVID-19 hotline at 305-243-ONE-U. Vaccinations Students are strongly encouraged to be vaccinated against COVID-19 to safeguard their health and the health of all members of our University and South Florida communities. To be fully vaccinated, you must be at least two weeks past receiving the final does of an FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine and an appropriate booster shot. Students vaccinated outside of UHealth should upload a copy of their COVID-19 Vaccination Record Card to their MyUHealthChart account. Testing For the latest information regarding testing site locations and hours of operation, please visit coronavirus.miami.edu/testing Quarantine and Isolation Students who test positive or who are experiencing symptoms consistent with COVID-19, regardless of vaccination status, will be required to isolate for five days and must continue to mask in all settings for an additional five days after isolation. Students who are fully vaccinated (including a booster shot) and who have been exposed to someone who is COVID-19-positive will not be required to quarantine, but will be required to mask in all settings for 10 days and must test five days after exposure. Students who are not vaccinated or who have not received a booster shot and who have been exposed to someone who is COVID-19-positive will be required to quarantine for five days, test five days after exposure, and mask in all settings for an additional five days. Affected students will receive specific instructions to their University email address. Additional information regarding quarantine and isolation for residential students can be found on the Housing and Residential Life site. Students, faculty, or staff who have symptoms of COVID-19, even if fully vaccinated, should consult their health care provider regarding testing or additional steps and should not come to campus. Please note that requirements are subject to change based on the latest public health guidelines. Contact Tracing All COVID-19-positive individuals, regardless of vaccination status, must participate in contact tracing. Fully vaccinated individuals who are close contacts will not need to quarantine after a known exposure, but testing and masking will be required. Individuals who are not fully vaccinated who are close contacts will need to quarantine for seven days and test negative five to six days after exposure. Masks and Face Coverings Effective March 1, 2022, and in accordance with CDC guidance, masks are no longer required in indoor spaces on the Coral Gables and Marine campuses. (The Medical Campus should continue to follow guidance issued by UHealth communications.) While masks are now optional, they are helpful in preventing infection and will continue to be needed in certain circumstances: Immunocompromised individuals or those who are at high risk for severe illness should continue to wear high-grade masks. Individuals who test positive must wear a high-grade mask at all times around others for a period of five days following their isolation period. Individuals who are experiencing COVID-like symptoms, regardless of test result, should wear a high-grade mask around others. Individuals who are identified as close contacts of COVID-positive subjects should wear masks until they have tested negative according to the protocol. There are different levels of vulnerability. Individuals who wish to wear a mask for their protection are encouraged to do so, and that decision should be respected by all members of our community. Wastewater Surveillance The University will continue to test wastewater on a weekly basis to assess the prevalence of infection on the Coral Gables Campus. Classroom Distancing The University is utilizing a multi-layered strategy to protect the campus community from exposure to and transmission of the coronavirus. Where possible, classroom seating layouts have been adjusted to accommodate an average distance of two feet between students. However, after vaccination, the single most important preventative measure is the consistent and proper use of face masks in the classroom and all indoor public spaces. This is backed by scientific data and is in keeping with CDC guidelines. CARES Act Funding Under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, the University will receive and distribute funds to University of Miami students who have been adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. These emergency funds will be distributed to students who have incurred expenses due to the disruption of campus operations, including eligible expenses under a student’s cost of attendance, such as food, housing, course materials, technology, health care, and child care. For detailed information about student eligibility, eligible expenses, and the application process, as well as an application to request emergency financial assistance, visit https://canescentral.miami.edu/communications/cares-act/index.html. Committed to the Latest Guidelines We continue to monitor public health guidance and rely on the vast experience and expertise of our medical professionals at UHealth, the University of Miami Health System. We are committed to updating and revising our policies as new information becomes available and guidelines are updated and will communicate any changes to the University community. We're Here to Help If you need additional assistance, please contact: Division of Student Affairs at vpsa@miami.edu Housing and Residential Life at housing@miami.edu International Students and Scholar Services at isss@miami.edu Student Activities and Student Organizations at saso@miami.edu Canes Central at canescentral.miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices