Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Students More Students Testing Program Compliance with Testing Student FAQs Students Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Faculty, Postdocs & Staff More Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Program Compliance with Testing Faculty, Postdocs & Staff FAQs Faculty, Postdocs & Staff Testing Positive, Quarantine & Isolation Visitors More Visitors Events and Gatherings Participants Penn Programs Wellness More Wellness Dashboard Public Health Guidance at Penn COVID-19 Glossary Penn Cares Videos Vaccines More Vaccines FAQs Getting Vaccinated Utility Navigation Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Submenu - Main Announcements President's Messages Dashboard FAQs Contact PennOpen Pass Faculty and Staff Compliance with Testing Thank you for your compliance with your assigned testing protocol and helping to reduce the risk of spread of COVID-19. Compliance with testing requirements is automated through PennOpen Pass. The information below contains information on why you would receive a Red Pass for non-compliance and how to get back to Green Pass status. FAQs for a Red Pass Due to Non-Compliance Who should enroll for screening testing? Visit the Testing Program page to learn who must participate in Penn Cares screening testing, as well as how often. What if I do not fulfill my required screening testing? PennOpen Pass will generate a non-compliant RedPass for anyone who misses their required tests for a particular week. Requests for reasonable accommodations should be made to the Office of Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Programs. Why did I get a Red Pass that states I am not in compliance with screening tests? You receive a Red Pass from PennOpen Pass if you are non-compliant with your testing requirement. What happens when I have a non-compliance Red Pass? Until your PennOpen Pass clears from Red to Green for normal activities, you are requested to quarantine in your residence and avoid contact with others. You should also contact your manager or chair. What action do I need to take if I have a non-compliance Red Pass? Please schedule and comply with your next test as soon as possible. Your PennOpen Red Pass for non-compliance is cleared within 24 hours after you sign-in at the Penn Cares testing location for your scheduled screening test. The Red Pass protects you and others in the University community from the risk of the spread of COVID-19. How may I be removed from testing compliance? Please contact your human resources director to determine next steps. COVID Resource Call Center 215-573-7096 covidresource@upenn.edu Follow Us! University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement