Home Future Cadets Scholarships Global Programs Current Cadets Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership News We Develop Leaders ROTC Visit the Corps Events History Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory Nomination Criteria Make An Impact Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Menu Header Right Search website... Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Scholarships Global Programs Cadet Life Corps Outfits Cadet Profiles Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band Corps Special Units Home Of The Corps News We Develop Leaders Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership ROTC Visit The Corps Programs Events History Corps Center Current Cadets Important Links Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Contact Us Cadet Training Officers Future Cadet Form Make An Impact Staff Directory March To 3,000 MILITARY TRAINING AT TEXAS A&M The Texas A&M Corps of Cadets has produced some of the nation’s finest military leaders. While membership in the Corps carries no military obligation, the Corps consistently commissions more ROTC officers than any institution in the country. ARMY ROTC Army ROTC at Texas A&M is one of the best leadership courses in the country. The leadership development program encompasses academic, military, and physical training in a moral-ethical environment designed to produce officers of high moral character for our nation's Army. Our program has numerous scholarship opportunities available as well as studying abroad, participating in summer military training schools, and internships for those wanting to pursue a commission as an officer in the Army, continuing the long history of Aggies proudly serving in the US Army. KNOW MORE NAVY/MARINE ROTC Naval ROTC cadets at Texas A&M participate in the largest NROTC program in the country with a long tradition of excellence. As a member of the NROTC program, students learn firsthand the roles and missions of the Navy and Marine Corps team. In addition, the focus on academics, leadership development, and personal fitness prepares students for success in a very dynamic and highly competitive work environment. For those pursuing a commission in the Navy or Marine Corps, students participate in rewarding training opportunities with Navy and Marine units in both the U.S. and overseas. NROTC students fly with Navy and Marine Corps pilots, embark on ships and submarines, work with Special Operations units and train with marine infantry, artillery and other combat units. For those looking for a challenging and rewarding experience join NROTC at Texas A&M. KNOW MORE AIR FORCE ROTC Air Force ROTC boasts over 600 cadets making it the largest AFROTC detachment in the nation, commissioning more officers than any of the other 144 AFROTC detachments. The highly demanding and successful program focuses on three top priorities: Academic Excellence, Exceptional Leadership, and Cadet Well-Being. Cadets frequently garner highly competitive national scholarships in Pre-Medicine, Nursing, and Engineering in addition to typical Air Force High School and In-College Scholarships. Texas A&M AFROTC cadets are consistently handpicked for competitive internships to prestigious US government laboratories. Most importantly, Texas A&M AFROTC cadets are selected for commissioning at a rate 8-10% above the national average. KNOW MORE Site Footer Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Visit The Corps Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Cadet Leadership We Develop Leaders Development Module Career Readiness Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Navy/Marine ROTC News Visit The Corps Programs Corps Center Make An Impact TAMF CCA Bricks Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory History Hall of Honor Profiles Medal of Honor Texas A&M University Accessibility Privacy & Security Corps Of Cadets Association Home Future Cadets Cadet Life We Develop Leaders Visit The Corps Current Cadets Contact Us March To 3,000 Copyright 2022 • Texas A&M Corps of Cadets | The Keepers of the Spirit • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT