Home Future Cadets Scholarships Global Programs Current Cadets Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership News We Develop Leaders ROTC Visit the Corps Events History Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory Nomination Criteria Make An Impact Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Menu Header Right Search website... Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Scholarships Global Programs Cadet Life Corps Outfits Cadet Profiles Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band Corps Special Units Home Of The Corps News We Develop Leaders Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership ROTC Visit The Corps Programs Events History Corps Center Current Cadets Important Links Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Contact Us Cadet Training Officers Future Cadet Form Make An Impact Staff Directory March To 3,000 March To 3,000 In April of 2022, Texas A&M announced its new campaign to grow the Corps of Cadets’ strength to 3,000 members. Visit here for more information on Texas A&M’s announcement of this initiative. As part of this new campaign, dubbed the “March To 3,000”, Texas A&M has funded two new scholarships: the ROTC Patriot Scholarship Program, available to ROTC scholarship cadets, and the Maj. Gen. Raymond L. Murray Scholarship for out-of-state cadets. In addition to the university’s new scholarship opportunities, the Office of the Commandant is closely evaluating internal and external recruiting and retention strategies for the Corps to ensure that the best practices are in place. To accommodate the anticipated growth, two additional Corps dorms are scheduled to be built, with completion set for 2027-28. As an integral piece of Texas A&M’s history, the Corps of Cadets is looking forward to using the March To 3,000 initiative to continue to produce high quality leaders of character on an even greater scale. Read more about the history of the Corps of Cadets here. Frequently Asked Questions Why do we need to grow the Corps to 3,000? The Corps of Cadets has consistently produced some of our nation’s top leaders, for the military, and the private and public sectors. With a higher number of cadets, the Corps will be able to grant more individuals from all walks of life the opportunity to experience something greater than themselves. As the Corps grows in size, so do the opportunities that are available to our cadets, ensuring an endless range of academic, professional, and physical enrichment options. How are TAMU & the Corps going to grow the Corps to 3,000? Read about the university’s and Corps’ efforts to grow the Corps to 3,000 here. What date is the Corps supposed to reach 3,000? Currently, the Fall semester of 2030 is the expected date for the Corps to reach 3,000 cadets. Is membership in the Corps required if you attend Texas A&M? Though all students at Texas A&M are welcome to join the Corps of Cadets, membership in the Corps is not required. Do I have to join the military if I join the Corps? No. Though many cadets will choose to commission into the military after graduation, a majority of cadets (approximately 60%) go on to work in the public and private sectors after graduation. Cadets are required to take ROTC classes during their freshman and fall semester of ther sophomore year as these classes provide formal leadership education and practical leadership experience. Those seeking to commission into the armed forces will continue to take ROTC classes. Those not seeking to commission will continue leadership training through the Hollingsworth Center of Ethical Leadership. What is the Corps doing to grow the Corps to 3,000? Recruitment and retention efforts are currently being evaluated to ensure maximum effectiveness. The Corps of Cadets is continuing to monitor these efforts, both internally and externally, to ensure that the best practices are in place. The Corps of Cadets will roll out a marketing campaign this summer aimed at increasing awareness about what the Corps has to offer. What is Texas A&M doing to grow the Corps to 3,000? Texas A&M has established two scholarships in support of the “March to 3,000” initiative. The ROTC Patriot scholarship works to bridge the gap between scholarship funds current ROTC scholarship cadets receive and the cost to attend Texas A&M. The Major General Raymond L. Murray ‘35 scholarship will alleviate costs for out of state cadets. Additionally, the university’s capital plan includes the funding and building of two new dorms, set for completion in 2027-2028 school year. What is the purpose of the Corps of Cadets? The purpose of the Corps of Cadets is to develop well educated leaders of character who embody the values of honor, integrity, courage and selfless service. The Corps prepares cadets to become top leaders in the public, private, and military sectors. What is a Senior Military College (SMC)? In accordance with Title 10 of the United States Code, a Senior Military Colleges (SMC) is an accredited educational institution that prepares selected students for commissioned service into the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force or Space Force. SMCs offer a combination of higher education courses and military instruction over the course of 4 years. How does the university benefit from a bigger Corps? The Corps of Cadets provides students at Texas A&M with the complete Aggie experience, from the day they arrive on campus to the time they cross the stage at graduation. What is the history of the Corps? The Corps of Cadets is the oldest student organization at Texas A&M. Founded alongside the university in 1876, the Corps of Cadets has produced top quality leaders of character for over 145 years. Though the look of the Corps has evolved throughout the years, the central purpose has remained: building individuals that exemplify respect, excellence, leadership, loyalty, integrity, and selfless service. To learn more about the Corps of Cadets’ storied history, visit here. Whose idea was it to grow the Corps to 3,000? Conversations about growing the Corps to 3,000 began in 2017. Corps strength at the time was projected to exceed 2,600 and a new growth goal was identified through the Office of the Commandant’s strategic planning process. Why did the Corps consolidate outfits? The former Corps structure was configured to support a larger number of cadets than the present Corps strength. Outfits will be reactivated to meet the needs of a growing Corps. What is the current Corps membership/enrollment? The Corps of Cadets strength on the first day of classes in fall 2021 was 2,143 members. Why should I join the Corps? The Corps of Cadets provides students at Texas A&M with the complete Aggie experience, from the day they arrive on campus to the time they walk the stage at graduation. Individuals in the Corps are exposed to a wide range of opportunities--from social to professional--throughout their four years in the Corps. As members of the Corps, cadets are able to challenge themselves daily, excel academically, and develop relationships that last a lifetime, without any military obligation. The grades of freshman and sophomore cadets consistently exceed those of their peers among the Texas A&M student body. Post graduation, over 90% of cadets are either employed or commissioning into the military at graduation, exceeding the university average. What opportunities are available to someone who wants to join the Corps, but not the military? There are a wide range of career building opportunities available to cadets not seeking a commission into the United States military. From career readiness programs, networking opportunities with companies and professionals to personalized career advising sessions, the Corps of Cadets is dedicated to preparing students for whichever career path they choose to pursue. For more information on the Corps’ career readiness initiatives, visit here. Why is the Corps important to Texas A&M? The Corps can date its origins back to the creation of Texas A&M in 1876. As the Keepers of The Spirit and the Guardians of Tradition, the Corps of Cadets is devoted to upholding Texas A&M’s reputation as a top tier institution. In addition to preserving Texas A&M’s time honored traditions, the Corps of Cadets has consistently produced some of our nation’s top leaders, in both the private and public sectors. Texas A&M University would not be Texas A&M without the Corps of Cadets. What happens once the Corps hits 3,000? Once the Corps reaches 3,000 cadets, university officials and Office of the Commandant staff will continue to work to maintain the 3,000 cadet membership status. If we grow the Corps to 3,000, how big will the Aggie Band be? With a greater number of cadets in the Corps, we expect to see a rise in the number of cadets with interest in joining the band. We look forward to welcoming more students to both the Corps and the Aggie Band. Will the Corps need more facilities if it grows to 3,000? Yes. The university’s capital plan currently includes two additional Corps dorms that will support the Corps’ growth to 3,000. Other buildings that will be necessary to support a larger Corps include a Multipurpose Center that will house Corps Academics, the Hollingsworth Center for Ethical Leadership and large meeting spaces, Leadership Learning Centers and the renovation of the Sanders Corps of Cadets Center. Can I join the Corps after freshman year? Yes. As long as you have four semesters left at Texas A&M, you are eligible to transfer into the Corps. New cadets are welcomed at the beginning of each semester. To learn more about the opportunities available to you, contact a Corps Recruiting Representative by phone at 1-800-TAMU-AGS or via email at aggiecorps@corps.tamu.edu. How much does it cost to be a cadet? The cost of being in the Corps is no more expensive than being a regular student on campus. Cadets pay the same college fees as other on campus students. There are additional expenses for cadets including uniform and fees, dry cleaning expenses and haircuts. More information about additional costs can be found at housing costs and dining costs. All members of the Corps of Cadets are eligible to apply for Corps specific scholarships, with approximately% of eligible cadets receiving financial assistance. To learn more about the scholarship opportunities that are available at Texas A&M and through the Corps of Cadets, visit here. Who is supporting the Corps’ growth to 3,000? Several key organizations across campus will actively support the Corps’ growth to 3,000 cadets. The Corps of Cadets is working with the Texas A&M Foundation, Office of the President, the Office of Admissions, Corps of Cadets Association, and the Association of Former Students will play a key role in the Corps’ growth to 3,000. How do I join the Corps? To join the Corps of Cadets, you must first apply to and be admitted into Texas A&M. All students with at least four semesters left at Texas A&M are eligible to join the Corps. Connect with a Corps of Cadets recruiter by email at aggiecorps@corps.tamu.edu Who can join the Corps? All students at Texas A&M are able to join the Corps of Cadets. Individuals from all walks of life and backgrounds are invited to join the Corps. Military service is not a requirement for membership in the Corps of Cadets. For more information on how you can join the Corps, connect with a Corps of Cadets recruiter by phone at 1-800-TAMU-AGS or via email at aggiecorps@corps.tamu.edu Where can I learn more about the March to 3,000? For more information on March to 3,000 visit here. Where can I learn more about the Corps of Cadets? There are several online, virtual and in person opportunities to learn more about the Corps of Cadets. Click here for more. Site Footer Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Visit The Corps Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Cadet Leadership We Develop Leaders Development Module Career Readiness Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Navy/Marine ROTC News Visit The Corps Programs Corps Center Make An Impact TAMF CCA Bricks Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory History Hall of Honor Profiles Medal of Honor Texas A&M University Accessibility Privacy & Security Corps Of Cadets Association Home Future Cadets Cadet Life We Develop Leaders Visit The Corps Current Cadets Contact Us March To 3,000 Copyright 2022 • Texas A&M Corps of Cadets | The Keepers of the Spirit • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT