Home Future Cadets Scholarships Global Programs Current Cadets Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership News We Develop Leaders ROTC Visit the Corps Events History Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory Nomination Criteria Make An Impact Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Menu Header Right Search website... Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Scholarships Global Programs Cadet Life Corps Outfits Cadet Profiles Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band Corps Special Units Home Of The Corps News We Develop Leaders Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership ROTC Visit The Corps Programs Events History Corps Center Current Cadets Important Links Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Contact Us Cadet Training Officers Future Cadet Form Make An Impact Staff Directory March To 3,000 CORPS GLOBAL LEADERSHIP INITIATIVES The Corps Global Leadership Initiatives (CGLI) program provides high-impact educational experiences giving students a strong understanding of the key geopolitical, economic and social forces currently shaping the globe. The program focuses on developing a context of international awareness, regional expertise, and language competence among the cadets at Texas A&M University. The Corps Global Leadership Initiatives Program is a partnership between the Corps of Cadets at Texas A&M, the Department of International Studies, and the Study Abroad Programs Office. Whether cadets pursue careers as officers in the United States military or enter the civilian workforce, CGLI prepares them to bemore informed leaders for our state, nation, and world. These experiences enhance the critical thinking and intentional leadership skills of cadets, creating young individuals with a mature global competence. Through this program, the Corps of Cadets strives to build the next generation of leaders for the U.S. military, government, and private sector. CORPS OF CADETS INTERNATIONAL EXCURSIONS Corps of Cadets International Excursions are short-term study abroad programs offered up to 3 times per year. On each trip, 26 cadets receive an intense international experience while gaining insight into the cultures, languages, and geopolitical issues of key nations. The excursions provide opportunities for cadets to interact with their peers from other host nations, and gain understanding of the important geopolitical issues facing those nations. Cadets are selected for participation on the basis of academic and extracurricular merit. Recent excursions include travel to Qatar, Kuwait, Oman, China, Korea, India, Chile, Singapore, Indonesia, Georgia, Armenia, Germany, and Poland. DID YOU KNOW? Prior to the leaving for their international excursion, cadets conduct detailed study about the country they are visiting using the 4 Elements of National Power a framework Diplomacy| Information| Military| Economics All cadets are assigned to one of these areas to research while traveling through their destination country. They will also look at elements of Religion and Culture while in the country. Going on the Corps Global Excursion to Okinawa and Japan was definitely an unforgettable experience. I got to learn about and experience a new culture that’s very different from that of the United States, as well as learn about the complex issues facing both of our nations. Not to mention the food was incredible, too! Travis Stebbins ‘18 PROJECT GO The Project Global Officers (Project GO) scholarship program is an initiative of the US Department of Defense that is aimed at improving strategic language skills, regional expertise, and intercultural communication skills of future military officers. Project GO programs focus exclusively on the languages and countries of the Middle East, Asia, Eastern Europe, and Africa to provide ROTC students with international skills for effective leadership. Texas A&M University has some of the best critical language study abroad programs in Chinese, Russian, and Arabic. TAMU faculty-led programs offer language classes opening up critical language study and cultural immersion to cadets who have no prior language experience. These programs also qualify for ROTC students who are eligible for Project GO scholarships. Application deadlines for TAMU faculty-led study abroad programs vary. Students should anticipate deadlines as early as January 1, 2015. For more information on individual programs, please follow the Study Abroad Program link below. Information about additional study language programs is available at the Study Abroad Programs Office on the first floor of Bizzell Hall West. Please ask for Jordan Land for more information regarding study abroad programs. SCHOLARSHIP DETAILS Full funding is offered for study abroad programs focused on intensive language study in Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, or Russian and can be for summer, spring, or fall language immersion study. SCHOLARSHIP FUNDS COVER THE COST OF Transportation to and from the study abroad location Accommodations Field trips and excursions included in the academic program International health insurance Visa application fee Program tuition and fees Any required textbooks Site Footer Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Visit The Corps Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Cadet Leadership We Develop Leaders Development Module Career Readiness Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Navy/Marine ROTC News Visit The Corps Programs Corps Center Make An Impact TAMF CCA Bricks Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory History Hall of Honor Profiles Medal of Honor Texas A&M University Accessibility Privacy & Security Corps Of Cadets Association Home Future Cadets Cadet Life We Develop Leaders Visit The Corps Current Cadets Contact Us March To 3,000 Copyright 2022 • Texas A&M Corps of Cadets | The Keepers of the Spirit • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT