Home Future Cadets Scholarships Global Programs Current Cadets Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership News We Develop Leaders ROTC Visit the Corps Events History Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory Nomination Criteria Make An Impact Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Menu Header Right Search website... Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Scholarships Global Programs Cadet Life Corps Outfits Cadet Profiles Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band Corps Special Units Home Of The Corps News We Develop Leaders Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership ROTC Visit The Corps Programs Events History Corps Center Current Cadets Important Links Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Contact Us Cadet Training Officers Future Cadet Form Make An Impact Staff Directory March To 3,000 TEXAS A&M FOUNDATION As our Corps continues to grow, we strive to offer additional financial aid, enhanced learning experiences, and outstanding facilities for our cadets. Donor support provides critical resources allowing us to recruit and retain outstanding cadets. To all who have given so generously—thank you! Your gifts of support will impact our Corps for many years to come! DEVELOPMENT PRIORITIES Donors often ask how they can make the greatest impact on the Corps. Support for our leadership training, international excursions, learning centers and scholarships are among our highest priorities. HOLLINGSWORTH CENTER FOR ETHICAL LEADERSHIP (HCEL) Providing resources for the HCEL is our number one funding priority. Through this center, all cadets experience formal studies in leadership and are taught to apply those leadership principles in everyday life in the Corps. Juniors and seniors who are not pursuing military commissions further their leadership experience with advanced courses and training to prepare them for civilian careers. We are expanding this career readiness training through additional conferences, mentoring programs and post-graduation research. In 2019, over $110,000 was generously pledged by individual and corporate donors to impact the Hollingsworth Center, including $87,000 toward the Intentional Leadership Conference. CORPS INTERNATIONAL EXCURSIONS Over the past 10 years, cadets have enjoyed the opportunity to travel abroad through the Corps Global Leadership Initiatives Program. Corps International Excursions offer short-term study abroad opportunities between the end of the spring semester and the start of summer terms. Currently, three groups of approximately 26 cadets receive an intense international experience while gaining insight into the cultures, languages and geopolitical issues of key nations. These excursions provide opportunities for cadets to interact with peers from host nations, gain an understanding of the important issues facing the world and learn about the impact each nation has on the United States. In 2019, one former cadet made a groundbreaking impact on this program, committing a multi-year sponsorship so that cadets can gain valuable international experience, just like he did during his time at A&M. LEADERSHIP LEARNING CENTERS (LLCS) As part of renovations to the Quad over the past several years, 4 Leadership Learning Centers were funded through the generosity of donors and built to create the premier learning/study spaces on the Texas A&M campus. These LLCs, situated between dorms 1-8, provide learning spaces for large groups, small groups, and individuals and offer access to the latest in education technology. Whether participating in tutoring sessions, studying individually or working with class project teams, our cadets benefit tremendously from the best learning environment on campus in the LLCs. It’s no wonder cadets have posted the highest GPAs in Corps history since the construction of the LLCs. Plans are currently underway to develop 2 additional LLCs to be located between dorms 9-11 and 10-12. We encourage donors who want to make a positive impact on the learning environment for the Corps to consider support for these new LLCs. CORPS SCHOLARSHIPS As our Corps continues to grow, we seek to increase the number of scholarships for cadets. Our goal is to have every academically eligible cadet on a Corps scholarship, especially those with financial need and those who have demonstrated outstanding leadership qualities. Whether you decide to create an endowed Keepers of The Spirit Scholarship, Corps 21 Scholarship, General Rudder Scholarship, or Sul Ross Scholarship, you will truly impact the lives of cadets for generations to come. Donors who wish to invest in the continued growth and success of the Corps are encouraged to contact our Corps of Cadets development team: RORI R. BROWNLOW Development Business Operations Manager Texas A&M Foundation, Corps of Cadets John J. Koldus Building, Suite 111, 1256 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 givetocorps@txamfoundation.com (979) 458-1689 http://give.am/supportcorps CORPS OF CADETS ASSOCIATION The sole mission of the Texas Aggie Corps of Cadets Association is to “Promote, Preserve, and Perpetuate the Texas Aggie Corps of Cadets by supporting Former, Current, and Future Cadets.” In doing this, the CCA provides funding for over 50 Corps related programs and special units, including the Corps Hall of Honor, Rally to the Guidons, Corps athletics, the Marksmanship Unit, Corps recruiting, Student Conference on National Affairs delegates, O.R. Simpson Honor Society, Senior Dining Out, Boot Dance, March to the Brazos, Freshman Orientation Week cadet expenses, Parson’s Mounted Cavalry, the Fish Drill Team, the Ross Volunteers, and the Texas Aggie Band and Texas Aggie Band Show. For more information about the CCA Development Staff Jill Kizer Bright '91 Development Texas Aggie Corps Association 1134 Finefeather Road Bryan, TX 77803-3823 877-892-4222 membership@corpsofcadets.org VISIT THE CCA BRICKS By purchasing a Corps Center Brick on the Sanders Corps of Cadets Center front plaza, former cadets and their supporters have been leaving their mark on campus for many years. Thousands of bricks dedicated to individuals can be seen at the front plaza of the Sanders Corps of Cadets Center. Money received from the sale of each Corps Center Brick is placed into an endowment that supports the operations of the Sanders Corps of Cadets Center. This self-sustaining concept allows the Corps Center to maintain its status as being built solely through gifts and donations. All contributions are tax deductible. The Corps Center Bricks are installed in the Corps Center Plaza twice a year by the Corps Center Guard, a cadet special unit dedicated to learning and presenting the heritage of the Corps at the Sanders Corps of Cadets Center. Brick orders need to be placed by February 1st for April installation and June 1st for August installation. A kiosk in the Great Hall of the Sanders Corps of Cadets Center allows visitors to locate their own or any other Corps Center Brick in the plaza by the engraved name or purchaser of the donated brick. If you have any questions about Corps Center Bricks please contact the Corps Center at 979-862-2862 or email us at bricks@corps.tamu.edu. SEARCH FOR A BRICK PURCHASING A BRICK Bricks are purchased through the Texas A&M Foundation and allow up to three lines (max 15 characters per line) for a message, with most featuring the name and class year of the individual. PRICING Current Students $100 – two lines of text $125 – three lines of text Former Students $250 – two lines of text $275 – three lines of text Keepsake Brick $50 – A duplicate brick can be ordered, and will be identical to the one purchased. The duplicate brick will be mailed to the person indicated on the order form. HOW TO ORDER ONLINE Follow the directions below Please view the Mail-In Order form listed below for brick guidelines before ordering online Click “ORDER ONLINE” below Under “SELECT DEPARTMENT OR ACCOUNT” select “Corps of Cadets Center” Enter your total order amount and personal details Under the category “Gift Details” in the “Additional Comments” box, you will indicate you are purchasing a brick and put what you want on the brick Please remember the 15 character/space per line limit and use the “Mail-In Order” form for guidance. This “Additional Comments” box is also where you will indicate where you want the duplicate to be mailed, if you want an extra certificate sent, etc. Review your information and submit gift order ORDER ONLINE MAIL IN ORDER FORM Site Footer Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Visit The Corps Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Cadet Leadership We Develop Leaders Development Module Career Readiness Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Navy/Marine ROTC News Visit The Corps Programs Corps Center Make An Impact TAMF CCA Bricks Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory History Hall of Honor Profiles Medal of Honor Texas A&M University Accessibility Privacy & Security Corps Of Cadets Association Home Future Cadets Cadet Life We Develop Leaders Visit The Corps Current Cadets Contact Us March To 3,000 Copyright 2022 • Texas A&M Corps of Cadets | The Keepers of the Spirit • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT