Home Future Cadets Scholarships Global Programs Current Cadets Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership News We Develop Leaders ROTC Visit the Corps Events History Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory Nomination Criteria Make An Impact Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Menu Header Right Search website... Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Scholarships Global Programs Cadet Life Corps Outfits Cadet Profiles Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band Corps Special Units Home Of The Corps News We Develop Leaders Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership ROTC Visit The Corps Programs Events History Corps Center Current Cadets Important Links Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Contact Us Cadet Training Officers Future Cadet Form Make An Impact Staff Directory March To 3,000 CORPS SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE SCHOLARSHIPS There are four categories of scholarships available specifically for members of the Corps of Cadets. Three of these scholarship categories are awarded and administered through the Corps Scholarship Office. The Easterwood Scholarship is administered through the University Scholarship and Financial Aid Office. Corps 4K Scholarship $4,000 or more per year 4 Years 3.0 cumulative GPR Corps 2K Scholarship $2,000 or more per year 4 Years 2.5 cumulative GPR Corps Sul Ross Scholarship $1,200 per year 2 Years (Renewable) 2.3 cumulative GPR Easterwood Scholarship $4,000 per year 4 Years 2.5 cumulative GPR HOW TO APPLY Prospective Cadets Submit the Scholarship Application (ApplyTexas.org or Coalition Admission Application) when you apply for initial admission or transfer to Texas A&M Establish contact with the Corps Recruiting Office or attend or be scheduled to attend one of the Corps Recruiting programs (Spend the Night with the Corps etc.) Complete FAFSA Current Cadets Complete the Continuing Student Scholarship Application between October 15 and February 1 annually. This application is used throughout the university for scholarship awards. Complete a paper application in the Corps Scholarship Office. Complete FAFSA ADDITIONAL SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION Corps scholarships are awarded on the basis of merit and/or financial need. Merit scholarships are determined the same way the Admissions Office determines which applicants are offered admission (i.e. SAT/ACT scores, high school class rank, extracurricular activities, leadership positions, etc.) Financial need scholarships are determined by your Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Scholarship offers will go out approximately every 3 weeks starting in early February, and continue through the summer. Students are notified via U. S. Mail from the university Student Financial Aid (SFA) office and/or email from the Corps Scholarship Office. The letter from SFA will include all financial aid from the university that is being offered, including Corps scholarships. SCHOLARSHIP REQUIREMENTS Remain a member in good standing in the Corps of Cadets. Enroll in a minimum of 12 hours per semester at Texas A&M (Blinn Team). This may be waived on a case-by-case basis by the Commandant. Have completed a minimum of 30 hours by the beginning of the sophomore year, and a minimum of 75 hours by the beginning of the senior year. Write a thank you letter to your scholarship donor(s) each semester, and submit a copy to the Corps Scholarship Office. (information provided at the start of each semester) Allow grades to be sent to the donor(s) of your scholarship each semester. Allow contact information such as phone number and email address to be sent to donor(s). Participate in Corps or donor sponsored social events in honor of the scholarship donors. Complete the Corps Scholarship Agreement at the beginning of your first semester in the Corps of Cadets. Valued up to $4500 per year The Corps of Cadets offers scholarships ranging in value from $1000-$4500 per year that carry no military obligation. Need & Merit Based Corps scholarships are both need and merit based, with many reserved for students entering the Corps as freshman cadets. Reduced Tuition for Non-Residents Non-resident students who are awarded certain Corps scholarships may qualify for the non-resident tuition waiver, allowing them to pay tuition at the in-state rate LEARN MORE How do I apply? To apply for admission and to complete a scholarship application to Texas A&M, visit ApplyTexas.Org LEARN MORE MAJOR GENERAL RAYMOND L MURRAY CORPS OF CADETS SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM The Corps of Cadets is pleased to provide additional financial support for out of state students. SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION The General Murray scholarship will be awarded in an amount equal to the additional tuition charged to non-residents, thereby reducing total tuition to be equivalent to that paid by Texas residents. Each student is evaluated individually to determine their award eligibility. This scholarship will be awarded as a supplement to other Corps of Cadets scholarships for any student paying tuition and fees above the amount normally paid as a resident of the State of Texas. Students are eligible to receive the scholarship for multiple semesters as long as they continue to meet the requirements of their Corps of Cadets scholarship. Scholarships will be posted/reassessed by the 20th class day each long semester (fall/spring). The scholarship is awarded annually. There is no application for this award. Read more about the Major General Raymond L. Murray Scholarship Program here. SCHOLARSHIP REQUIREMENTS Be and remain in good standing with Texas A&M University and the Corps of Cadets. Meet the requirements to receive a Corps of Cadets scholarship. Be the recipient of a Corps of Cadets scholarship in the amount of $1,200 or greater. Be an out of state student as identified by Texas A&M. A student will be excluded from receiving the General Murray scholarship if: They are already receiving a non-resident tuition waiver such as the Competitive Scholarship Waiver or Military in Texas Waiver. They are not receiving a Corps of Cadets scholarship in the amount of $1,200 or greater. They are dismissed or resign from the Corps of Cadets. They do not meet the requirements to retain their Corps of Cadets scholarship. Interested In Military Opportunities? ROTC Scholarships & TASSP offer money to those interested in serving after college. LEARN MORE PATRIOT ROTC SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM The Corps of Cadets is pleased to provide supplemental financial support for ROTC scholarship students in both College Station and Galveston. SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION The Patriot ROTC Scholarship Program guarantees that required housing and meal expenses are covered by Texas A&M University for qualified ROTC scholarship students through a combination of federal, state, university, and other reported aid (excluding loans). Each student is evaluated individually to determine their award eligibility. If aid meets or exceeds required housing and meal expenses, a student will not receive the scholarship. Scholarships will be posted/reassessed by the 20th class day each long semester (fall/spring). Required housing and meal expenses are defined as Corps housing and the Corps minimum required meal plan. For College Station students this is the Block 170 with 300 Dining Dollars meal plan. Galveston students should refer to the Galveston dining plan details for their minimum required meal plan. The required housing and meal amounts are determined annually. The scholarship is awarded annually. There is no application for this award. Read more about the Patriot ROTC Scholarship Program here. SCHOLARSHIP REQUIREMENTS Be and remain in good standing with Texas A&M University, the Corps of Cadets and the ROTC program. Meet the requirements to receive an ROTC scholarship. Have signed an ROTC scholarship contract. Are receiving ROTC tuition and fees benefits. An ROTC student will be excluded from receiving the Patriot ROTC Scholarship if: They are a fifth year ROTC student. They are suspended or on leave of absence from their ROTC program. They are dismissed or resign from the Corps of Cadets. They have tuition and fees paid by a source other than an ROTC scholarship. They choose to receive ROTC room and board benefits in lieu of ROTC tuition and fees benefits. They have aid that meets or exceeds required housing and meal expenses. CONTACT INFO Office of the Commandant – Corps of Cadets Scholarships Peter Siegel ‘96 Associate Director psiegel@corps.tamu.edu Tiffany Dennis Administrative Coordinator tdennis@corps.tamu.edu Corps Scholarship Office (979) 458-0469 Fax. (979) 845-8066 Ash I LLC 1227 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1227 MILITARY OPTIONS TO HELP PAY FOR SCHOOL The United States Armed Forces are a great way to pay for your education. These options include ROTC scholarships offered through the individual branch ROTCs as well as the Hazlewood Exemption and the Texas Armed Services Scholarship Program (TASSP). Hazlewood Exemption The Hazlewood Act is a State of Texas benefit that provides qualified Veterans, spouses, and dependent children with an education benefit of up to 150 hours of tuition exemption, including most fee charges, at public institutions of higher education in Texas. This does NOT include living expenses, books, or supply fees. Remain a member in good standing in the Corps of Cadets. LEARN MORE Texas Armed Services Scholarship Program (TASSP) TASSP is a scholarship available to any Texas resident who is interested in pursuing either a commission in one of the Armed Services or will join the Texas Army National Guard, Texas Air National Guard, the Texas State Guard, U.S. Merchant Marine, or U.S. Coast Guard upon graduation. One of the requirements for this scholarship is to enroll in ROTC classes, which is also a requirement for those who join the Corps of Cadets. LEARN MORE Site Footer Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Visit The Corps Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Cadet Leadership We Develop Leaders Development Module Career Readiness Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Navy/Marine ROTC News Visit The Corps Programs Corps Center Make An Impact TAMF CCA Bricks Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory History Hall of Honor Profiles Medal of Honor Texas A&M University Accessibility Privacy & Security Corps Of Cadets Association Home Future Cadets Cadet Life We Develop Leaders Visit The Corps Current Cadets Contact Us March To 3,000 Copyright 2022 • Texas A&M Corps of Cadets | The Keepers of the Spirit • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT