Home Future Cadets Scholarships Global Programs Current Cadets Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership News We Develop Leaders ROTC Visit the Corps Events History Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory Nomination Criteria Make An Impact Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Menu Header Right Search website... Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Scholarships Global Programs Cadet Life Corps Outfits Cadet Profiles Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band Corps Special Units Home Of The Corps News We Develop Leaders Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership ROTC Visit The Corps Programs Events History Corps Center Current Cadets Important Links Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Contact Us Cadet Training Officers Future Cadet Form Make An Impact Staff Directory March To 3,000 THE ULTIMATE AGGIE EXPERIENCE “There is no military obligation for joining the Corps.” The Texas A&M Corps of Cadets is the largest, oldest and most visible student organization and leadership training program at Texas A&M University. The Corps develops well-educated leaders of character who embody the values of honor, courage, integrity, discipline and selfless service. They are academically successful, highly sought-after and prepared for global leadership challenges of the future. The Corps, one of the largest uniformed bodies of students in the nation, provides hands-on leadership experience, enhances a world-class education from Texas A&M, and directly involves cadets in the traditions that make Aggieland so different from all other schools. There are more than 2,000 cadets at Texas A&M, each with their own reason for joining the Corps of Cadets. Below are just a few of the reasons students have joined the Corps. ACADEMICS Our commitment is first and foremost to helping cadets succeed academically as students. In the Corps, you gain access to resources that can help you excel academically. The Corps of Cadets continues to post a higher GPA than their university counterparts. For the previous five years, over half of the Corps has posted a GPA of 3.0 or better. LEADERSHIP Through the Corps of Cadets, you develop and excel as a leader through participation in the premiere values-based military and civilian leadership program in the country. Although not all cadets commission into the military, they still gain a wealth of leadership knowledge through the ROTC programs and the Hollingsworth Center for Ethical Leadership. PHYSICAL FITNESS Cadets participate in physical training several times a week together with their outfits, creating a team environment. With physical fitness as a priority, members of the Corps experience the benefits of living a healthy lifestyle while in college. Consistent, structured physical training helps cadets create a well-balanced lifestyle and healthy habits. Other benefits include mental clarity, more energy and better sleep habits. The Corps of Cadets collaborates with the department of Health and Kinesiology at Texas A&M to build all fitness programs used by outfits. FRIENDSHIPS The shared experience of the Corps of Cadets creates lifelong bonds with your “buddies.” During your Corps career, you will meet a diverse section of the student body, many of whom you will remain in contact with long after your days at A&M. VALUES The Corps of Cadets strive to embody the 6 Corps Values including honor, integrity, discipline, courage, respect, and selfless service. Cadets are to uphold honor, the unwavering commitment to sound moral values and strong character. It is expected that cadets also act with integrity, the honesty and moral courage to always defend and do what is right, and discipline, striving for excellence by holding oneself and others accountable to higher standards. Respect enables cadets to maintain an environment that ensures all persons are treated with fairness and dignity. Finally, cadets are to exhibit selfless service; the desire and ability to put others before self. ACADEMICS Our commitment is first and foremost to helping cadets succeed academically as students. In the Corps, you gain access to resources that can help you excel academically. The Corps of Cadets continues to post a higher GPA than their university counterparts. For the previous five years, over half of the Corps has posted a GPA of 3.0 or better. LEADERSHIP Through the Corps of Cadets, you develop and excel as a leader through participation in the premiere values-based military and civilian leadership program in the country. Although not all cadets commission into the military, they still gain a wealth of leadership knowledge through the ROTC programs and the Hollingsworth Center for Ethical Leadership. PHYSICAL FITNESS Cadets participate in physical training several times a week together with their outfits, creating a team environment. With physical fitness as a priority, members of the Corps experience the benefits of living a healthy lifestyle while in college. Consistent, structured physical training helps cadets create a well-balanced lifestyle and healthy habits. Other benefits include mental clarity, more energy and better sleep habits. The Corps of Cadets collaborates with the department of Health and Kinesiology at Texas A&M to build all fitness programs used by outfits. FRIENDSHIPS The shared experience of the Corps of Cadets creates lifelong bonds with your “buddies.” During your Corps career, you will meet a diverse section of the student body, many of whom you will remain in contact with long after your days at A&M. VALUES The Corps of Cadets strive to embody the 6 Corps Values including honor, integrity, discipline, courage, respect, and selfless service. Cadets are to uphold honor, the unwavering commitment to sound moral values and strong character. It is expected that cadets also act with integrity, the honesty and moral courage to always defend and do what is right, and discipline, striving for excellence by holding oneself and others accountable to higher standards. Respect enables cadets to maintain an environment that ensures all persons are treated with fairness and dignity. Finally, cadets are to exhibit selfless service; the desire and ability to put others before self. ACADEMIC ADVANTAGE Academic excellence is the top priority of the Corps of Cadets. We offer scholastic consulting, supplemental instruction, cadet-led support programs as well as access to state-of-the-art facilities. The Corps provides a structured, disciplined, environment conducive to academic excellence. The Corps observes mandatory study periods five days per week and maintains quiet hours in the dorms to facilitate academic study. Our cadets continue to excel academically and prove that students at Texas A&M can achieve academic excellence while being members of the Corps of Cadets. The Corps of Cadets continues to post a higher GPA than their university counterparts. For the previous five years, over half of the Corps has posted a GPA of 3.0 or better. Our efforts toward academic excellence as a priority are producing excellent outcomes. THE ACADEMIC DAY During the academic day, cadets attend classes, study, and see to personal business. Freshman and sophomore cadets have a study period called “Evening Study Time” which is a mandatory multi-hour period on Sunday through Thursday evenings. This time is dedicated to studying, projects, group work, supplemental instruction, and test reviews. DEDICATED SCHOLASTIC STAFF There are four-full-time Scholastic Performance Specialists on the Commandant’s staff who provide tailored academic advice and mentoring to all cadets no matter their major. They provide instruction for coping with college academics and guidance on balancing your academic degree plan with Corps course requirements. THE ACADEMIC DAY During the academic day, cadets attend classes, study, and see to personal business. Freshman and sophomore cadets have a study period called “Evening Study Time” which is a mandatory multi-hour period on Sunday through Thursday evenings. This time is dedicated to studying, projects, group work, supplemental instruction, and test reviews. DEDICATED SCHOLASTIC STAFF There are four-full-time Scholastic Performance Specialists on the Commandant’s staff who provide tailored academic advice and mentoring to all cadets no matter their major. They provide instruction for coping with college academics and guidance on balancing your academic degree plan with Corps course requirements. TRADITIONS Texas A&M is more than a great university; it is the home of the Aggie family and has a long history of spirit and tradition. The Corps has long been known as the “Keepers of the Spirit and Guardians of Tradition ” because of cadets’ key roles in the preservation and execution of A&M’s time-honored traditions for over 140 years. REVEILLE Reveille, the highest-ranking member in the Corps of Cadets, is Texas A&M’s official mascot. The tradition began when Reveille I arrived in 1932, and since 1960 she has been cared for by Company E-2. MUSTER Each year on April 21, Aggies gather together to celebrate the lives of fellow Aggies who have passed away that year. At Muster’s conclusion, the Corps’ Ross Volunteers honor the fallen with a rifle volley. SENIOR BOOTS Senior cadets earn the privilege to wear distinctive brown leather boots that remain one of the most recognizable symbols of the Corps of Cadets and Texas A&M University. MIDNIGHT YELL The night before every home football game, Aggies hold Midnight Yell, a special event regularly attended by thousands of fans, led by the Texas A&M Yell Leaders and the Aggie Band. SILVER TAPS Held the first Tuesday of the month, Silver Taps is the final tribute paid to an Aggie who, at the time of their death, was enrolled in graduate or undergraduate courses at Texas A&M. MARCH-IN Led by Corps Staff, 2200+ member Corps marches into Kyle Field before home football games, displaying their drill and ceremony precision for Reviewing Officers and spectators. FIGHTIN’ TEXAS AGGIE BAND Nationally known for its precise military marching formations, the Aggie Band is the official marching band of Texas A&M and is formed exclusively by members of the Corps of Cadets. FAQs How do I join the Corps? Acceptance to Texas A&M University is the ONLY prerequisite for joining this leadership training program. The majority of incoming cadets are in the freshman class, however, the Corps is open to all Texas A&M students. Apply to TAMU Contact a Corps Recruiting Representative 1-800-TAMU-AGS aggiecorps@corps.tamu.edu New Student & Family Programs is here to support your success as a new student, from the time of your admission through your first year at Texas A&M. To help you get started, attend a New Student Conference (NSC). NSC is a two-day orientation program required of all new undergraduate students. Is there a military obligation to be in the Corps? There is no military obligation when you join the Corps of Cadets. Cadets are required to take ROTC classes during their freshman and sophomore years as these classes provide formal leadership education and practical leadership experience. Do I have to be in the Corps to be a member of the Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band? Yes. Membership in the Aggie Band requires full participation in all required activities of the Corps of Cadets in addition to those required of the Aggie Band. To read more about the Aggie Band, visit their page here. Where do cadets live? The Quad is where Cadets live on campus, in dorms with their home outfits. Some exceptions do apply. To learn more about housing at Texas A&M visit: https://reslife.tamu.edu/options/corps/ FUTURE CADET CONTACT FORM VISIT THE CORPS The Corps of Cadets offers several ways for High School students to experience cadet-life, meet and interact with current cadets, staff, and faculty, and tour the Texas A&M Campus. SCHEDULE AN INDIVIDUAL IN-PERSON APPOINTMENT LEARN MORE SCHEDULE AN INDIVIDUAL IN-PERSON APPOINTMENT LEARN MORE VIRTUAL ZOOM APPOINTMENTS LEARN MORE SPEND THE NIGHTS WITH THE CORPS LEARN MORE SPEND THE DAY WITH THE CORPS LEARN MORE AGGIE EAGLE PROGRAM LEARN MORE JUNIOR CADET ACCESSIONS PROGRAM LEARN MORE AGGIELAND SATURDAY LEARN MORE Site Footer Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Visit The Corps Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Cadet Leadership We Develop Leaders Development Module Career Readiness Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Navy/Marine ROTC News Visit The Corps Programs Corps Center Make An Impact TAMF CCA Bricks Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory History Hall of Honor Profiles Medal of Honor Texas A&M University Accessibility Privacy & Security Corps Of Cadets Association Home Future Cadets Cadet Life We Develop Leaders Visit The Corps Current Cadets Contact Us March To 3,000 Copyright 2022 • Texas A&M Corps of Cadets | The Keepers of the Spirit • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT