Home Future Cadets Scholarships Global Programs Current Cadets Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership News We Develop Leaders ROTC Visit the Corps Events History Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory Nomination Criteria Make An Impact Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Menu Header Right Search website... Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Scholarships Global Programs Cadet Life Corps Outfits Cadet Profiles Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band Corps Special Units Home Of The Corps News We Develop Leaders Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership ROTC Visit The Corps Programs Events History Corps Center Current Cadets Important Links Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Contact Us Cadet Training Officers Future Cadet Form Make An Impact Staff Directory March To 3,000 CORPS RECRUITING PROGRAMS The Corps of Cadets offers several ways for high school students to experience cadet life, meet and interact with current cadets, staff, and faculty, and tour the Texas A&M campus. SCHEDULE AN INDIVIDUAL IN-PERSON APPOINTMENT REGISTER NOW Prospective students can sign up for in-person appointments thru the Texas A&M Visitor Center. These appointments include a Corps overview, tour of the Corps area and the opportunity to meet cadets. Prospective students can sign up for in-person appointments thru the Texas A&M Visitor Center. These appointments include a Corps overview, tour of the Corps area and the opportunity to meet cadets. Prospective students can sign up for individual or group Zoom session. These sessions include a Corps overview and the opportunity to ask questions. Prospective students can sign up for individual or group Zoom session. These sessions include a Corps overview and the opportunity to ask questions. VIRTUAL ZOOM APPOINTMENTS REGISTER NOW SPEND THE NIGHT WITH THE CORPS Program for High School Juniors, Seniors, and Parents REGISTER NOW The popular Spend the Night with the Corps (SNWC) program offers juniors and seniors in high school and transfer students a unique, first-hand experience of Corps and student life at Texas A&M. During the program, participants will: Meet current cadets and learn about their experiences in the Corps Stay in the Corps dorms on campus Eat meals with an outfit and watch formations Attend a class with a cadet Hear from key staff about Corps experience Learn about the university admissions process, financial aid, scholarships and academic support For those interested, have the chance to visit with an Aggie Band director about the nationally famous Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band. Auditions for the band take place during the spring only. Dates and Schedule The Spend the Night Program is offered most weeks during the fall and spring semesters. Check-in for the SNWC Program is at the Sanders Corps of Cadets Center from 4:15 – 4:30 p.m. on your scheduled date of arrival. The program concludes the following day at approximately 12:00 p.m. The popular Spend the Night with the Corps (SNWC) program offers juniors and seniors in high school and transfer students a unique, first-hand experience of Corps and student life at Texas A&M. During the program, participants will: Meet current cadets and learn about their experiences in the Corps Stay in the Corps dorms on campus Eat meals with an outfit and watch formations Attend a class with a cadet Hear from key staff about Corps experience Learn about the university admissions process, financial aid, scholarships and academic support For those interested, have the chance to visit with an Aggie Band director about the nationally famous Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band. Auditions for the band take place during the spring only. Dates and Schedule The Spend the Night Program is offered most weeks during the fall and spring semesters. Check-in for the SNWC Program is at the Sanders Corps of Cadets Center from 4:15 – 4:30 p.m. on your scheduled date of arrival. The program concludes the following day at approximately 12:00 p.m. The Spend the Day with the Corps program (SDWC) is an official campus visit to Texas A&M University offered each summer for rising high school juniors, seniors and their parents. The activities throughout the day include: An admissions application presentation with university admissions counselors Scholarships and Financial Aid presentation Resource tables with various departments from across the campus Tours of the Quad, cadet dorms and facilities Time with cadets, Corps staff, and ROTC representatives Dates and Schedule The next Spend the Day with the Corps program will be on Friday, July 22, 2022, from 11:30 AM - 5:00 PM. Register now! The Spend the Day with the Corps program (SDWC) is an official campus visit to Texas A&M University offered each summer for rising high school juniors, seniors and their parents. The activities throughout the day include: An admissions application presentation with university admissions counselors Scholarships and Financial Aid presentation Resource tables with various departments from across the campus Tours of the Quad, cadet dorms and facilities Time with cadets, Corps staff, and ROTC representatives Dates and Schedule The next Spend the Day with the Corps program will be on Friday, July 24, 2020. SPEND THE DAY WITH THE CORPS Program for High School Juniors, Seniors, and Parents REGISTER NOW AGGIELAND SATURDAY Annual Campus Open House REGISTER NOW Learn about the Corps of Cadets and all the opportunities available to you through the following activities: Open house at the Sanders Corps of Cadets Center with information tables for all of the ROTC programs, Corps scholarships, and the Fightin' Texas Aggie Band Presentations about the Corps of Cadets and cadet life Walking tours of the Quad – visit the dorms and training areas of the Corps of Cadets Presentations by the Corps special units – including Parsons Mounted Cavalry, the Ross Volunteers, and Fish Drill Team Performances by the Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band Dates and Schedule Saturday, February 12, 2022. Please note: The schedule of outdoor events is subject to change pending inclement weather. Registration: To register for the Texas A&M University Aggieland Saturday event, please click on the "Register Now" button. For additional information or questions, please contact Mr. Jerry Peralta ’07 at jerry@corps.tamu.edu. Learn about the Corps of Cadets and all the opportunities available to you through the following activities Open House at the Sanders Corps of Cadets Center with information tables for all of the ROTC programs, Corps Scholarships, Aggie Band, and Corps sports teams Presentations about the Corps of Cadets and cadet life Walking Tours of the Quad – the dorms and training area for the Corps of Cadets Presentations by the Corps special units – including Parsons Mounted Cavalry, the Ross Volunteers, Fish Drill Team, Rudder’s Rangers, Marine RECON and Navy SEAL Teams Performances by the Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band Appearance by the university mascot – Reveille Dates and Schedule 2021 TBD Please note: The schedule of outdoor events is subject to change pending inclement weather. Registration: Register for the Corps program during Aggieland Saturday using the link below to submit the online registration. You should then also register for the Texas A&M University Aggieland Saturday event. JUNIOR CADET ACCESSIONS PROGRAM (JCAP) A Firsthand Experience Tailored for Junior ROTC, Civil Air Patrol, Young Marines and Sea Cadets The Junior Cadet Accessions Program (JCAP) offers high school juniors and seniors involved in Junior ROTC, Civil Air Patrol, Young Marines and Sea Cadets a first-hand experience with the Corps of Cadets. While at JCAP, cadets will: Stay in the Corps dorms on campus Learn about the university admissions process, financial aid, scholarships and academic support Train with the national championship drill team, the Fish Drill Team in the fall and watch their performance in the spring. Attend a men's basketball game Receive a JCAP T-Shirt and Military Challenge Coin Dates and Schedule The next JCAP is February 4-5, 2022 APPLY TO JCAP Parents can register their academically qualified juniors and seniors for JCAP by clicking on the “Register” link. Students will then be redirected to our registration site run by CircuiTree. The $50 registration fee is non-refundable, but may be applied to another date if students need to change their program date. Students are responsible for their own transportation to and from the event. Parents are welcome to attend both the parent’s informational meeting and the Commandant’s presentation on Friday afternoon. For more information, please email us at aggiecorps@corps.tamu.edu or call the Corps Recruiting Office at 1-800-TAMU-AGS REGISTER NOW AGGIE EAGLE PROGRAM From Scouting to The Corps of Cadets The Aggie Eagle Program (AEP) offers high school juniors and seniors in scouting a first-hand experience with the Corps of Cadets. During the AEP, scouts will: Stay in the Corps dorms on campus Learn about the university admissions process, financial aid, scholarships and academic support In the fall, march in to Kyle Field with the Corps before a football game Receive the Aggie Eagle Program t-shirt and patch Dates and Schedule The spring 2022 Aggie Eagle Program is scheduled for February 4-5, 2022. APPLY TO THE AGGIE EAGLE PROGRAM Parents can register their academically qualified juniors and seniors for AEP by clicking on the “Register” link. You will then be redirected to our registration site run by CircuiTree. The $50 registration fee is non-refundable, but may be applied to another date if students need to change their program date. Students are responsible for their own transportation to and from the event. Parents are welcome to attend both the parent’s informational meeting and the commandant’s presentation Friday afternoon. AEP participants are responsible for their own transportation to and from the event. For more information, please email us at aggiecorps@corps.tamu.edu or call the Corps Recruiting Office at 1-800-TAMU-AGS REGISTER NOW SAM HOUSTON SANDERS CORPS OF CADETS CENTER The Sam Houston Sanders Corps of Cadets Center is home to a museum that houses thousands of Aggie artifacts and a library with over 3,000 military research and leadership volumes. The Sanders Corps Center depicts the Corps of Cadets from its beginning in 1876 to today. The exhibits describe the traditions and history of Texas A&M University and include Silver Taps, the Aggie Band, Parsons Mounted Cavalry, the 12th Man, the Ross Volunteers, Aggie Muster, Bonfire, Reveille, Cadet Life and two Aggie Ring cases. Also housed in the Corps Center is the Metzger -Sanders Antique Firearm Collection. HOURS OF OPERATION Open Monday-Friday 8 a.m.-5 p.m. (unless otherwise specified) CONTACT INFORMATION 1400 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1400 Phone: (979) 862-2862 PARKING INFORMATION Visitor parking is available at University Center Garage Site Footer Home Future Cadets Why The Corps Academic Advantage FAQ Visit The Corps Hollingsworth Center For Ethical Leadership Cadet Leadership We Develop Leaders Development Module Career Readiness Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Navy/Marine ROTC News Visit The Corps Programs Corps Center Make An Impact TAMF CCA Bricks Contact Us Future Cadet Form Staff Directory History Hall of Honor Profiles Medal of Honor Texas A&M University Accessibility Privacy & Security Corps Of Cadets Association Home Future Cadets Cadet Life We Develop Leaders Visit The Corps Current Cadets Contact Us March To 3,000 Copyright 2022 • Texas A&M Corps of Cadets | The Keepers of the Spirit • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT