Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Academic Schools The sciences and mathematics are engines of human innovation. They are vital pillars of the technological research university of the 21st century. School of Biological Sciences The School of Biological Sciences provides a broad foundation in modern life sciences while enabling students to undertake focused studies in cell and molecular biology, ecology and evolution, genetics and genomics, and physiology. Our research encompasses broad areas of inquiry, including biomechanics, bio-inspired design, bioinformatics, cancer biology, chemical biology, chemical ecology, comparative neuromechanics, environmental microbiology, marine science, muscle physiology, predictive health, prosthetics and orthotics, and systems biology. Our programs build quantitative and analytical skills, independent research skills, and critical reasoning. School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry and Biochemistry The School of Chemistry and Biochemistry offers training in the molecular sciences from the undergraduate to postdoctoral levels. With our faculty, students conduct world-class research in many areas of chemistry, biochemistry, and related fields. We connect our programs, resources, and research to other disciplines and Georgia Tech units to provide students varied opportunities to answer important fundamental questions, pursue important practical advances, and develop into creative and productive leaders. School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Our academic programs are innovative and rigorous yet offer flexibility for students to tailor their degrees toward specific goals. School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Students and faculty in the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences are driven by the desire to understand the earth beneath our feet, the oceans that surround us, and the atmospheric processes that affect our weather and climate. The desire to understand our own planet extends backwards, to the early Earth environment as life emerged, and outwards, to the study of other planets and planetary environments. School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics Academic programs in the School of Mathematics cover both pure and applied mathematics. The flexible and interdisciplinary curricula prepare students for many career paths, from computer science to economics. The School partners with other Georgia Tech units to support interdisciplinary graduate programs in algorithms, combinatorics, and optimization; bioinformatics; computational science and engineering; quantitative and computational finance, quantitative biosciences; statistics; and machine learning. School of Mathematics We help students learn how to answer important fundamental questions, enable practical advances, and become productive members of the global community. School of Physics The School of Physics offers the next generation of scientists and engineers opportunities to study at the frontiers of physics – astrophysics; atomic, molecular, and optical physics; biophysics; nonlinear physics; and soft and condensed matter. Students and faculty explore the questions that will revolutionize our understanding of physical phenomena, such as gravitational waves, quantum systems, epitaxial graphene, and granular media. School of Physics School of Psychology Psychology is the primary science of who we are as active human beings capable of self-organization, self-reflection, and self-regulation. Research in the School of Psychology focuses the scientific lens on the human being as we understand ourselves to be, the way we think, what we feel, and how we act. Students and faculty do research at the forefront of science and apply it to important problems of everyday life. School of Psychology Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education is for all. We help students in the state of Georgia and beyond realize their potential in STEM. Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login