Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home News ScienceMatters At Georgia Tech, one of the top research universities in the world, much of the curiosity-driven discovery is happening in the six schools of the College of Sciences. ScienceMatters will bring you the compelling stories behind the award-winning faculty and enterprising undergraduate and graduate students who are advancing what we know of our world and beyond. Season 3 ScienceMatters - Season 3, Episode 10 - The Physics of the Ocean Broadcast Date: November 19, 2019 The new dean of the Georgia Tech College of Sciences, Susan Lozier, is continuing her physical oceanography research as she takes the reins of her administrative duties in Tech Tower. She talks about her studies of “the global ocean conveyor belt,” her plans to get back to the ocean in 2020, and her commitment to mentorship. Read this episode's transcript ScienceMatters - Season 3, Episode 9 - Charting the Paths of Molecules Broadcast Date: November 12, 2019 Cosmologists use computers simulations to recreate the birth of stars and black holes. James “JC” Gumbart, an associate professor in the School of Physics, goes in the other direction: He uses powerful hardware and software to chart the possible paths of molecules like proteins in hopes of finding solutions to problems like antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Read this episode's transcript ScienceMatters - Season 3, Episode 8 - Digging Up Climate Clues in Peat Moss Broadcast Date: November 5, 2019 Gardeners love peat moss; it’s great for growing. But Joel Kostka, professor in the School of Biological Sciences and the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, wonders if it serves as a warning sign for the impact of climate change on plants and microbes. He travels to a unique experimentation site in Minnesota to find answers to his questions. Read this episode's transcript ScienceMatters - Season 3, Episode 7 - Finding the Magic in Materials Science Broadcast Date: October 29, 2019 Georgia Tech science powers the technology behind TV and smartphone screens, thanks to breakthroughs in physics, chemistry, and materials science. Carlos Silva is adding to that legacy with his research into the next generation of semiconductors for electronic devices. Read this episode's transcript ScienceMatters - Season 3, Episode 6 - Unlocking the Mind-Body Connection Broadcast Date: October 22, 2019 School of Biological Sciences Associate Professor Lewis Wheaton uses his Cognitive Motor Control Lab to research the neurological processes involved when people cope with the loss of a limb, a stroke, or a traumatic brain injury that can impact motor skills. Read this episode's transcript ScienceMatters - Season 3, Episode 5 - Clearing the Air About Aerosol Science Broadcast Date: October 15, 2019 Sally Ng is one of the top experts in the world on aerosol science, the study of tiny particles in our atmosphere and what they mean for our climate, and our health. Ng, an associate professor in the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, describes her work testing air quality in the field, and in a special indoor lab that she designed. Read this episode's transcript ScienceMatters: S03-E04: Using Math to Tour the Solar System Broadcast Date: October 8, 2019 How can NASA stretch their fuel dollar for future missions to Jupiter and Saturn, and their potentially habitable moons? By using mathematical concepts that have been around for centuries. School of Mathematics Professor Rafael de la Llave is crunching the numbers for the space agency as it looks to save money during its next phase of exploration. Read this episode's transcript ScienceMatters - Season 3, Episode 3: The Search for Life at Earth’s Extremes Broadcast Date: September 30, 2019 The search for life elsewhere in the Solar System can start at the most inhospitable regions of Earth, like Iceland’s volcanic landscape, or frigid Antarctic waters. Amanda Stockton, assistant professor with the School of Chemistry and Biochemistry, talks about her astrobiology work for NASA. Read this episode's transcript ScienceMatters - Season 3, Episode 2: The Search for Earth 2.0 Broadcast Date: September 23, 2019 How long has oxygen been in our planet’s atmosphere, and what could the answer mean for life on other planets? School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Professor Chris Reinhard researches the early Earth, and potential Earths outside our solar system. Read this episode's transcript ScienceMatters - Season 3, Episode 1: All About Control Broadcast Date: September 17, 2019 What can Alfred Hitchcock’s “North by Northwest” teach us about paying attention? Are daydreamers really more intelligent and creative? Eric Schumacher, professor in the School of Psychology, talks about his research into the brain process known as cognitive control, and what it could mean for the future of communications, work, and education. Read this episode's transcript Previous Seasons Season 1 Giving a Voice to Data Can Lessons from Fossils Guide Earth’s Future? Toward a Vaccine for an Ancient Scourge A Healthy Microbiome for the Georgia Aquarium Visualizing the Birth of Galaxies There’s a Moth in My Video Game! Sneaking Science into Punk Rock When People Age and Memory Fails The Mathematics of ... Donuts? Chasing Cancer With Gold Season 2 Real Rock ‘n’ Roll: The “Music” of Earthquake The Science Behind OOOMMMMM Helping Glaucoma Patients Coral Reefs in Mortal Peril Hope for Coral Reefs Pee Pee Pipes and Other Animal Curiosities Searching for Life on Mars and Beyond Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login