Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home For Students Undergraduate Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees B.S. in Biochemistry B.S. in Mathematics B.S. in Biology B.S. in Neuroscience B.S. in Chemistry B.S. in Physics (including Applied Physics) B.S. in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences B.S. in Psychology Find out more from the course catalog. Majors, Minors, and Options You can opt for a double major or a minor or add the business or research options to your degree program. We recommend discussing these opportunities with your academic advisor during your first semester. Learn more about bachelor’s degrees and minors, the business option, and the research option. Scholarships and Financial Aid Georgia Tech offers many opportunities for scholarships and financial aid. Learn more from the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. Undergraduate Research Georgia Tech undergrads participate in research at significantly higher rates than those at many peer institutions. We offer a multitude of undergraduate research programs. Students can engage in research for credit or compete for paid fellowships such as the President's Undergraduate Research Award (PURA), the Petit Undergraduate Research Scholars Program, and the Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) Program of the National Science Foundation. Science and mathematics majors can also apply for the College of Sciences Undergraduate Research Science Awards (URSA). These awards are available for undergraduates to initiate research under the supervision of a College of Sciences faculty member. Non-Georgia Tech students (including prospective transfer students) are encouraged to consider Georgia Tech College of Sciences Broadening Participation in Summer Undergraduate Research Program. Internships and Co-ops Georgia Tech’s robust internship and cooperative education (co-op) programs allow students to augment their learning in the workplace. These experiences prepare students for careers in industry, government, and academic settings. Learn more from the Center for Career Discovery and Development. Student Advising You will be assigned an advisor who has a Ph.D. in your major program. Academic advisors are committed to guiding you and ensuring that you have access to resources and opportunities that can help you succeed academically and get a well-rounded preparation for life after a bachelor's degree. Students should consult their advisors on a regular basis. Advisement begins at the FASET (Familiarization and Adaptation to the Surroundings and Environs of Tech) orientation events. Learn more about undergraduate advising at Georgia Tech. Study Abroad Georgia Tech offers several study abroad programs. Those led by College of Sciences faculty have a duration of a few weeks. Barcelona Fall Program Biomolecular Engineering, Science, and Technology (BEST) Study Abroad Program in Lyon, France Georgia Tech-Pacific Program (Australia, New Zealand) Nature, Governance, and Sustainability in Costa Rica Neuroscience/Psychology Scotland Study Abroad Program Science majors can also participate in the Georgia Tech International Plan, an immersive global competency program, as well as in the Georgia Tech-Lorraine Summer Undergraduate Program (France) and the Oxford Summer Program (United Kingdom). Learn more from the Office of International Education. Residential Community for College of Sciences First Year Students College of Sciences freshmen can choose to live in the College’s campus residential community, which fosters their common interests in discovery, problem-solving, or career paths. Explore Living Learning Community (LLC) is the ultimate pre-health and undergraduate research Living Learning Community! Benefits of participating in the residential community include reserved sections of core courses, events with Georgia Tech faculty and researchers, co-curricular programming, and behind-the-scenes access to research, health, and other facilities of interest. Interdisciplinary Programs for College of Sciences Majors Science and mathematics majors can participate in various interdisciplinary programs to broaden their understanding of their major areas of study: The Georgia Tech Urban Honeybee Project is an undergraduate research, education, and service program. Participants can conduct research about the effects of urban habitats on bees, volunteer to work in the rooftop apiary, and interact with the Atlanta community through educational programs for school children and pollination services for gardens and urban farms. The Vertically Integrated Projects (VIP) program allows students to earn credit for working on long-term interdisciplinary research and design projects. The Serve-Learn-Sustain initiative enables students to learn and serve around the theme of “creating sustainable communities” through engagement with content and context. Science- and Mathematics-Related Student Organizations Among Georgia Tech’s more than 400 student organizations are several of particular relevance to College of Sciences majors: Club Math, Human Factors and Ergonomics Society, Society of Physics Students, Student Affiliates of the American Chemical Society, Students Organizing for Sustainability, and Tri-Beta. Career Paths All our B.S. degree programs provide exceptional preparation for further study and careers in industry, education, and government sectors in jobs related to their disciplines. Some of our graduates continue their education by attending top-ranked Ph.D. and M.S. programs, as well as medical, pharmacy, and other professional schools. TOP EMPLOYERS OF OUR GRADUATES AT&T Corporation Milliken & Company Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Aeronautics and Space Administration Cisco National Institute of Standards and Technology Delta Airlines National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration E.I. Du Pont de Nemours and Company Northrup Grumman Corporation Environmental Protection Agency Nuclear Regulatory Commission General Electric Company Oracle Corporation IBM Corporation Raytheon Company Intel Corporation Sandia National Laboratories Kimberly-Clark Corporation Texas Instruments Leidos The Coca-Cola Company Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company The Dow Chemical Company Merck & Company U.S. Department of Defense Microsoft Corporation Washington Savannah River Company Interested in majoring in the College of Sciences? Register for campus tours and College of Sciences information sessions through the "It's All About Science and Math” campus visitation program. A visit includes an introduction to degree programs, a class visit, lunch with faculty and students, admission and financial aid information, and a campus tour. If you have been offered admission to Georgia Tech, you will receive an invitation to come to one of the “EXPLORE Science and Math” campus visit weekends in the College of Sciences. These invitation-only weekend visits are typically held in February and April. Your browser doesn't support HTML5 video. Here is a link to the video instead. Contact Dr. Cameron Tyson about undergraduate degree programs in the College of Sciences. Interested in transferring to Georgia Tech? If you’re thinking of transferring, you need to understand the specific requirements for transfer admission consideration at Georgia Tech. Our information sessions and visitation events allow you to get the information you need and to explore our campus as much as you like. Register here for a transfer information session. Georgia Tech’s new program—Georgia Tech Arts & Sciences Pathway Program—offers freshman applicants who are from the state of Georgia the opportunity to transfer and pursue a major in three Tech colleges, including the College of Sciences. The offer is valid for the Fall semester one year after beginning full-time college studies. Deadlines and other submission information are available here. Meet College of Sciences Majors Center Stage: Kate Napier is a Driving Force Helping Girls and Women Succeed in STEM Fields Fourth-year School of Physics major Katherine A. “Kate” Napier, who dreams to be the first person to land on Mars, just received a weighty endorsement from Porsche Cars North America—and it’s not for driving. Together with the National Center for Civil and Human Rights, the car company has named her a recipient of the 2016 Porsche Driving Force Award. Her recognition speaks highly of a smart, young, female scientist-to-be who envisions herself in an extraterrestrial future but is meanwhile solidly grounded in helping fellow females succeed on Earth. College of Sciences Names Five New Leddy Family Scholars Five College of Sciences freshmen and sophomores have been named Leddy Family Scholars. They bring to 11 the total number of Leddy Family Scholars. Center Stage: Andrew Chetcuti Seamlessly Melds Academics and Athletics Center Stage: Kristy S. Syhapanha Puts a Foot in the Door of Her Dream Career More News Forging the Future: Caroline Zabinski Examining Butterflies’ Flight in Changing Winds How Exercise and Arousal Stimulate Memory Hydrated Minerals on Mars Students Chat About Lab Research and Study Abroad Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login