Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Alumni Giving to the College How to Make a Gift The College of Sciences at Georgia Tech cultivates curiosity, encourages exploration, and fosters innovation to develop scientific solutions for a better world. Working across six internationally ranked schools with the brightest young minds in our fields, we mentor future leaders to identify and push the frontiers of human knowledge, imagination, and innovation. Listed below are several methods of making a gift to the College of Sciences or its Schools. Your gift to the College supports our students, faculty, and research efforts and contributes to the success of our research and instruction overall. The College welcomes discretionary gifts of any size that support our most pressing needs as well as gifts to specific areas, such as: Undergraduate student scholarships Graduate student fellowships Faculty support Funding for specific research areas Programmatic support such as lecture series, study abroad scholarships, or other events. Please remember that many companies will match gifts to educational institutions, considerably increasing the size of your gift. Outright Gifts Make a gift by check To make a cash gift designated to the College of Sciences, simply make your check payable to the “Georgia Tech Foundation Inc.” and mail it to the following address: Georgia Tech College of Sciences, Office of the Dean C/O the Development Office Administration Building, Room 202 225 North Ave Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Be sure to include a note stating that you'd like your gift to be directed to support the College of Sciences. Make a gift by credit card Please visit https://mygeorgiatech.gatech.edu/giving/make-a-gift. Enter the College of Sciences or other specific program where "Other designation" is listed. Make a gift by wire transfer For gifts by wire transfer, please contact Ashley Coogan at 404.385.1604, development@cos.gatech.edu for instructions. Make a gift of stock electronically to Georgia Tech For gifts of stock, please contact Ashley Coogan at 404.385.1604, development@cos.gatech.edu for instructions. Corporate Matching Gifts Many companies match the gifts of their current or retired employees. Your company’s human resources department can provide details on its policies and can provide a matching gift form to include with your gift. Is My Gift Tax Deductible? Different deductions are associated with different gifts. Factors influencing tax deductions include the assets you are giving Georgia Tech and when a specific asset is given. In general, for outright gifts to Tech, you will receive an income-tax charitable deduction. Deferred Gifts and Estate Planning Bequests and other planned gifts are some of the greatest sources of funding for Georgia Tech. These gifts stabilize our financial foundation, securing the future of Georgia Tech while perpetuating a legacy of giving. There are a number of available tools such as will or living trust provisions, retirement plan or life insurance assets, and other methods of including Georgia Tech in your gift planning. Please contact us with any questions. Contact Ashley Coogan, Director of Development for the College of Sciences, to discuss philanthropic opportunities. 404.385.1604, development@cos.gatech.edu Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login