Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Alumni Graduating from Georgia Tech has many benefits beyond your degree. You are part of a special community linked by traditions and experiences unique to Tech. Be sure you register with the Georgia Tech Alumni Association to continue to connect with life at Tech. We in the College of Sciences would like to connect with you directly. We want to know what you’re doing and where your Georgia Tech education has taken you. We are eager to tout your accomplishments, so let us hear from you. Send inquiries, information, news, and pictures to jess@cos.gatech.edu. Keep in touch by following us on Facebook and Twitter (@GT_Sciences). Our alumni have been incredibly generous over the years in supporting programs and new projects in the College, hiring our graduates, and returning to Tech to consult with faculty, staff and students. We invite alumni and friends to participate in the life of the College through thoughtful philanthropic giving. Opportunities exist to fund scholarships to attract and retain outstanding students, fellowships and prizes to support discipline-leading faculty, improvements to facilities and equipment, and other needs to keep pace with advances in technology. Donors may provide unrestricted support to the College of Sciences or designate a gift to a specific school. Some have interest in permanent, named endowment funds that will benefit the College in perpetuity. Many have remembered the College in their estate plans through a bequest. Others have worked with our Gift Planning team to shape charitable plans involving other assets. The College’s Development Office assists alumni and friends in defining and achieving their philanthropic objectives. Please contact us at development@cos.gatech.edu to start a conversation. Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login