Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice This is the Georgia Institute of Technology’s (Georgia Tech) College of Sciences privacy and legal notice for compliance with the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (“EU GDPR”). For more information regarding the EU GDPR, please review Georgia Tech’s EU General Data Protection Regulation Compliance Policy. Lawful Basis for Collecting and Processing of Personal Data Georgia Tech is an institute of higher education involved in education, research, and community development. In order for the College of Sciences at Georgia Tech to provide education, conduct student and faculty recruitment, conduct development and direct marketing activities for the College of Sciences, engage in outreach programs for STEM education, process College of Sciences corporate sponsorship applications for scholarships, fellowships and other awards and conduct College of Sciences mentoring programs (hereinafter, collectively, the "Programs and Activities"), it must collect, use and process this personal data. The lawful basis for the collection and processing of personal data by Georgia Tech’s College of Sciences falls under the following categories: Processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by Georgia Tech or third parties in providing the Programs and Activities. The data subject has given consent to the processing of his or her special categories of sensitive personal data for one or more specific purposes. Types of Personal Data collected and why In order for the College of Sciences at Georgia Tech to provide the Programs and Activities, it needs to collect the following categories of personal data: Name Contact information including, without limitation, email address, physical address, phone number, and other location data Unique personal identifiers and biographical information (e.g. date of birth) Photographs of you Details of your education and/or employment qualifications Information related to visa requirements, copies of passports, and other documents to ensure compliance with U.S. laws Financial information gathered for the purposes of administering fees and charges, loans, grants, scholarships, etc. The personal data collected by Georgia Tech’s Office of College of Sciences will be shared as follows: Georgia Tech Unit Purpose Office of International Education Case management for international students, scholars, and employees located outside the United States. Office of Human Resources Information for employment related processes. Office of the Registrar To support student enrollment and academic advising in assisting students make progress toward graduation; Degree auditing for the purpose of degree completion. Georgia Tech Academic Units Communication with and about prospective applicants. Georgia Tech Academic Units Communication with and about enrolled students in the context of the pursuit of a degree/program of study. Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Processing of applications for financial aid for College of Sciences programs. Office of Undergraduate and Graduate Admissions For the purpose of applicant recruitment and admission. Office of Development Fundraising and endowment activities. Office of Undergraduate Education, Office of Academic Effectiveness, Center for 21st Century Universities, Strategic Consulting To provide basic student contact, demographic, and enrollment information in support of conducting surveys, collecting information, and receiving input from Institute constituents in order to analyze and improve courses, programs, and effectiveness of campus offerings. Division of Student Life To assist with providing students with the resources in support of their educational pursuit; discussions concerning matters handled by the Office of Student Integrity. Institute Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (IDEI) To provide targeted populations for the purpose of IDEI program and events. Georgia Tech Research Institute In connection with students working and/or employed on restricted sponsored research projects; faculty dual appointment roles. Office of Information Technology Systems access and security compliance for students working on restricted sponsored research projects. Bursar’s Office In connection with student employment or assessing tuition and fee waivers. Office of Graduate Education and Faculty Development Information for employment related processes. The Office of Institutional Research and Planning and the Office of Enterprise Data Management are responsible for the development, maintenance and storage of data resources to support the strategic planning and policy-making processes at Georgia Tech, and data is shared with these offices. Third-Party Name Purpose Georgia Tech Foundation In connection with the processing of student scholarship information. College of Sciences Corporate Sponsors To provide information about scholarship recipient(s) to Corporate Sponsor. Georgia Tech Research Corporation In connection with students working on restricted sponsored research projects. Survey Platforms and Vendors For the purpose of administering surveys to the Georgia Tech community. Georgia Tech Alumni Association For the purpose of communicating about activities and programing facilitated by Georgia Tech Alumni Association. Georgia Tech is a unit of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia (the “BOR”), and data is shared with the BOR and its employees. FERPA The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) provides that "Directory Information" is information not generally considered harmful or an invasion of privacy if disclosed. Directory Information is considered public information, but the categories of information that comprise Directory Information also comprise “personal data” under the EU GDPR. Please review Georgia Tech's definition of Directory Information for further information, including how to prohibit the release of Directory Information. Where Georgia Tech gets Personal Data and Special Categories of Sensitive Personal Data Georgia Tech receives personal data and special categories of sensitive personal data from multiple sources. Most often, Georgia Tech gets this data directly from the data subject or under the direction of the data subject who has provided it to a third party (for example, application for undergraduate admission to Georgia Tech through use of the Common App). Individual Rights of the Data Subject under the EU GDPR Individual data subjects covered by Georgia Tech’s EU General Data Protection Regulation Compliance Policy will be afforded certain individual rights: Note: Exercising of these rights is a guarantee to be afforded a process and not the guarantee of an outcome. Any data subject who wishes to exercise any of the above-mentioned rights may do so by filling such request with the Office of Enterprise Data Management at eugdpr@edm.gatech.edu Cookies Cookies are files that many websites transfer to users’ web browsers to enable the site to deliver personalized services or to provide persistent authentication. For information related to how Georgia Tech uses cookies, refer to Georgia Tech’s Privacy and Legal Notice. Georgia Open Records Act As a state university, Georgia Tech is subject to the provisions of the Georgia Open Records Act (ORA). Except for those records that are exempt from disclosure under the ORA, the ORA provides that all citizens are entitled to view the records of state agencies on request and to make copies for a fee. The ORA requires that Georgia Tech produce public documents within three business days. For more information on Georgia Tech’s ORA compliance, please visit the Open Records Act page on the Legal Affairs website. Security of Personal Data subject to the EU GDPR All personal data and special categories of sensitive personal data collected or processed by Georgia Tech under the scope of the Georgia Tech EU General Data Protection Regulation Compliance Policy must comply with the security controls and systems and process requirements and standards of NIST Special Publication 800-171 as set forth in the Georgia Tech Controlled Unclassified Information Policy. Data Retention Georgia Tech follows the guidelines specified in the University System of Georgia Records Retention Schedules. Applicable record categories include but are not limited to: Academic Affairs Administration Finance Human Resources Information Technology Research Student Records If a data subject refuses to provide personal data that is required by Georgia Tech in connection with one of Georgia Tech’s lawful bases to collect such personal data, such refusal may make it impossible for Georgia Tech to provide education, employment, research or other requested services. If the EU GDPR applies to the collection of your personal data and you have specific questions regarding the collection and use of your personal data, please contact the Office of Enterprise Data Management at eugdpr@edm.gatech.edu. Files & Consent Documents Downloads are available for: Georgia Tech College of Sciences EU GDPR privacy notice; Last updated 26 August 2020 Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login