Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Resources Regents Professors and Researchers Each year, academic deans are invited to nominate up to two academic faculty members to be considered as a Regents Professor and up to one research faculty member for Regents Researcher. The executive director of GTRI may nominate up to two research faculty members for consideration of Regents Researcher. Learn more here. Academic Faculty Nomination to Regents Professor How the Regents Professor Nomination process works Regents Professor Nominations are handled separately from the RPT process. Regents Professorships are granted by the Board of Regents to outstanding tenured, full professors, based on excellence in research and contributions to their profession and to Georgia Tech. School chairs are asked to nominate a full, tenured professor. For more information, visit the Board of Regents Policy Manual. A college committee consisting of Regents or other chaired professors, as recommended by the school chairs, will review the candidates’ packages and make recommendations to the dean, who will then review the documentation, select candidates, and forward their recommendations to the Provost. Process and Package Contents for Regents Professor Nominee’s current CV. GT format for CV recommended but not required. (provided by nominee to school chair) One paragraph biographical sketch (provided by nominee to school chair) Nomination letter from the school chair to the dean (provided by school chair) Letter of recommendation from the College Regents Committee to the dean (about January) Dean’s letter of recommendation to the Provost (about February) The Institute Regents’ Professor Nomination Committee, comprised of Regents Professors or other chaired professors as recommended by the college deans, meets to review the nominations and will forward their recommendations to the President. The President sends the packages of the selected nominees to the Board of Regents. The nominee must receive a unanimous recommendation from the Institute Regents' Committee and the President before the nomination will be transmitted to the Board of Regents. Decisions for Regents Professor Nominations The decision of the Board of Regents is sent to Office of the Provost (Faculty Affairs). Faculty Affairs then informs the dean of the outcome (about April). The dean will notify the school chair and the selected candidate. College of Sciences Regents Professors Jean-Luc Brédas (Chemistry) Leonid Bunimovich (Mathematics) Mostafa El-Sayed (Chemistry) Mark E. Hay (Biological Sciences) Walter de Heer (Physics) Nicholas Hud (Chemistry) Greg Gibson (Biological Sciences) Uzi Landman (Physics) Seth Marder (Chemistry) C. David Sherrill (Chemistry) Jeffrey Skolnick (Biological Sciences) Prasad Tetali (Mathematics, Computer Science) Turgay Uzer (Physics) April 2020: The College of Sciences remembers Regents Professor Robin Thomas. August 2021: 12 Georgia Tech Faculty Members Receive Regents Recognition. Listing updated September 2021. Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login