Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Strategic Plan: 2021-2030 The challenge and opportunity for the College of Sciences in the decade ahead is to capture the power of our community so that we can make fundamental discoveries, address humanity’s most pressing challenges in the 21st century, and develop global leaders in science and technology. To support our work, we are committed to workplace, education, and research excellence — and to a community marked by diversity, equity, and inclusion. We are inspired to realize the Georgia Tech motto of “Progress and Service.” Our Themes The main goals of our plan — excellence in the workplace, in education and training, and in our research endeavors — are designed to bring distinction to the College and to Georgia Tech. Cutting across all goals are three themes that will infuse our efforts in the decade ahead. Catalyze Discovery and Solutions We plan to push the frontier of fundamental knowledge in science and mathematics, to advance solution- based science, and to support the arc that connects these avenues of discovery. While continuing to catalyze fundamental science across the College, we will amplify our impact by focusing more intently on convergent science that seeks to improve the health of the planet and people in the state of Georgia, across our nation, and our world. Furthermore, we will imbue our learning environment for undergraduate and graduate students with a culture that emphasizes and values discovery, solutions, and their connection. Amplify Impact We aim to amplify our research impact by supporting and rewarding efforts to lead team science and entrepreneurship — and by developing faculty as scientific leaders at Georgia Tech and beyond. We plan to increase the representation of the College’s majors to 20% of the Georgia Tech undergraduate population, thereby establishing a critical mass and raising the internal and external impact of science and mathematics at Georgia Tech. We aim to develop and model a successful workplace with policies, procedures, and practices that can be shared across the Institute. Finally, we plan to amplify our impact through strategic philanthropic and communication efforts. Build Communities of Excellence To build the community that can most effectively advance the vision and mission of the College, it is imperative that we create an inclusive and equitable environment for all students, staff, and faculty members and that we recruit, welcome, and retain a diverse population for all sectors of our community. Community is built not simply from a collection of individuals, but rather from the relationships they forge. To that end, we will work to create a community infused with excellence, respect, professionalism, and trust — where all members have opportunities for professional development and support. Download the Strategic Plan Download the Strategic Plan Implementation Guide Next Steps: Proposals and Projects In January 2021, College of Sciences Dean and Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Susan Lozier invited all College of Sciences students, staff, and faculty to submit proposals for activities, projects, and initiatives that will contribute to meeting the goals of the strategic plan. Collective funding to achieve the proposals is provided through a generous $300,000 investment by the Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Dean's Chair. In March 2021, a dozen proposals were selected for project funding. The new projects will be led by collaborative and interdisciplinary teams of students, staff, and faculty. Learn more here. Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login