Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Prospective Students Welcome and congratulations on your acceptance to Georgia Tech, #GT26! Please tap here for a virtual visit to the College of Sciences. Learn more about our majors and Georgia Tech. Undergraduate Programs We offer Bachelors of Science degree programs in eight areas of study: Biology Biochemistry Chemistry Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Neuroscience Physics Psychology Our programs are known for their rigor in preparing students for careers in academia, industry, and government, as well as for advanced studies in medical schools and graduate programs. We offer a variety of undergraduate degree and research options. Students have flexibility to customize their programs for their specific needs. Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs We offer more than 25 master's and Ph.D. programs in seven areas of study: Applied Physiology Biology Chemistry and Biochemistry Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Our graduate students work with internationally recognized faculty in state-of-the-art facilities. Together, our graduate students and faculty are transforming discoveries into ways of enriching the human experience and advancing the quality of human life. Join us in the exciting journey to create the next frontiers of human knowledge. Graduate Programs Student Life At Georgia Tech, you are part of a diverse, international, world-class academic community. You can tailor your educational experiences from a wide range of curricular and extracurricular offerings. You have access to resources on various topics, including health and wellness and career planning. You have many options to cultivate not only your professional side but also other aspects of your life. The campus, as well as the city of Atlanta, offers myriad opportunities to participate in social, cultural, aesthetic, and other activities to nourish body, mind, and spirit. Student Life Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login