Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Research in Academic Schools Our faculty and student researchers undertake groundbreaking studies in a many fields of scientific inquiry. We nurture scientific curiosity and encourage intellectual risk-taking to push the boundaries of human knowledge. We are pioneers in collaborative, multidisciplinary research crossing traditional scientific disciplines. School of Biological Sciences Computational Biology and Bioinformatics Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior Integrative Physiology Molecular and Cell Biology School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Analytical Chemistry of Planetary Science Bioanalytical Mass Spectrometry Biosynthesis and Biofuels Biomolecular Structure and Function Chemical and Biological Imaging Chemical Biology Chemical Education Chemical Evolution Computational Chemistry and Software Development Medicinal Chemistry Molecular Biophysics Molecular Structure and Reactivity at Interfaces Multiscale Theory and Simulation Nanoscience and Nanotechnology Photovoltaics and Electroactive Materials Polymer and Materials Chemistry Spectroscopy and Dynamics Sustainable Catalysis School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Atmospheric Chemistry, Aerosols, and Clouds Biogeochemistry Dynamics of Weather and Climate Geophysics Oceanography and Climate Paleoclimate Space and Planetary Science School of Mathematics Analysis Applied and Computational Mathematics Differential Equations Discrete Mathematics Dynamical Systems Geometry and Topology Mathematical Biology Mathematical Physics Number Theory and Algebraic Geometry Probability and Statistics School of Physics Astrophysics, Astroparticles, and Gravitation Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics Condensed Matter and Materials Nonlinear Physics Physics of Living Systems Soft Matter School of Psychology Cognition and Brain Science Cognitive Aging Engineering Psychology Industrial/Organizational Psychology Quantitative Psychology On September 14, 2015, one of the most elusive predictions of Einstein’s theory of General Relativity was confirmed with the first detection of gravitational waves, which are ripples in the fabric of space-time. The international team that made the discovery included School of Physics Associate Professor Laura Cadonati and Professor Deirdre Shoemaker, with their students and postdocs. A second detection took place on December 26, 2015. How did life emerge from a soup of simple molecules? That is the essential fundamental question that research in the Center for Chemical Evolution (CCE) seeks to answer. Led by CCE Director and School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Professor Nicholas Hud, CCE seeks to uncover how the earliest of life’s large molecules could have formed and initiated evolution on Earth some four billion years ago. The Kelmans-Seymour conjecture had puzzled mathematicians for over 40 years. Professor Xingxing Yu and graduate students Dawei He and Yan Wang, in the School of Mathematics, have solved the puzzle. School of Biological Sciences Professor Marc Weissburg explains research how aquatic animals use waterborne chemical cues to gather information and affect the community in which they live. The El Niño event of 2016 was one of the strongest ever observed. Professor Kim Cobb, in the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, explains the implications. While a Ph.D. student in the School of Psychology, Lieutenant Colonel Dan Smith, now at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, measured the implicit personalities of soldiers enrolled in the U.S. Army Ranger School and discovered which personalities made the most effective leaders. The amazing ability of sidewinder snakes to quickly climb sandy slopes was once something biologists only vaguely understood. School of Physics Associate Professor Daniel Goldman has pioneered the study of the biomechanics of this locomotion and its application to robots and their swarms. School of Biological Sciences Associate Professor Young-Hui Chang discusses the biomechanics of running and why the joints in your hips, knees and ankles “talk” to each other. Associate Professor Christine Payne, in the School of Chemistry of Chemistry and Biochemistry, describes the research for which she received the DARPA Young Faculty Award in 2011. The award funded work that aims to enable cells to biosynthesize nanowires for use as synthetic neurons. Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login