Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About the College of Sciences Who We Are The Georgia Tech College of Sciences cultivates curiosity, encourages exploration, and fosters innovation to develop scientific solutions for a better world. Our connected community of scientists and mathematicians collaborates across disciplines and challenges to achieve excellence in science, teaching, and research. Working across six internationally ranked schools with the brightest young minds in our fields, we mentor future leaders to identify and push the frontiers of human knowledge, imagination, and innovation. Fostering Future Scientists and Mathematicians We nurture scientifically curious students by offering diverse educational and research experiences. As an internationally recognized, preeminent institution in the sciences and mathematics, we help students build empowering foundations in the sciences and mathematics — educating and preparing the next generation of scientists who will create the technologies of the future. Excellence in Teaching and Research Most of the disciplines within our six schools — Biological Sciences, Chemistry and Biochemistry, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Mathematics, Physics, and Psychology — are ranked in the top 10%. We organize ourselves in multidisciplinary research neighborhoods to promote broad exchange of ideas. We also offer exciting opportunities for students to engage in research, and train with top professors in chosen fields. Encouraging Exploration, Excellence, and Innovation Our internationally recognized senior faculty and an extraordinarily talented group of junior faculty are genuinely concerned about undergraduate and graduate education, and they bring the excitement of new discoveries in the research laboratory to the classroom. The quality of the faculty and the curriculum, combined with new state-of-the-art facilities and a low student to faculty ratio, ensure the excellent educational opportunities available to our students. A Vibrant and Connected Community Georgia Tech occupies a beautiful campus in the heart of Atlanta — a vibrant and verdant city with incredible opportunities in technology, science, entrepreneurship and innovation. Atlanta is home to top educational institutions, leading corporations, and a number of government agencies. Georgia Tech and Atlanta also have a unique place in the history of the advancement of civil and human rights — and in its future. Should I Study Science and Math at Georgia Tech? We’re looking for curious minds that love to investigate, experiment, ask questions, and work out solutions. We need students who are ready for the challenge of making discoveries that can change how we see the world — and how it works. If you’d like to attend a top-ranked school in a remarkable community, and apply scientific discoveries to real world problems, we’d like to meet you! Meet our Students Life as a Ramblin' Wreck: Year Two Meet our Researchers Why Are Gravitational Waves So Important? Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login