Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home College of Sciences The College of Sciences at Georgia Tech cultivates curiosity, encourages exploration, and fosters innovation to develop leaders and scientific solutions for a better world. Discover more. Latest News Mathematics and Biological Sciences Researchers Receive NSF Postdoctoral Fellowships A trio of postdoctoral scientists have received support for research across the College of Sciences in celestial mechanics, microbial dynamics and infection, and host-microbe symbiosis. Top Gun's Return Sparks Another Adrenaline Rush How did “Top Gun” change movie making, and why does it continue to be relevant 36 years later? To address those questions and much more, the Georgia Tech community reflects on the film and its legacy on the eve of its long-awaited sequel — “Top Gun: Maverick.” Build Your Own Biology Textbook For five years, the School of Biological Sciences at Georgia Tech has used open education resources (OER) to open the door to updated biology textbooks for introductory courses — that also save students money. Neutron Scattering Society Honors Martin Mourigal With 2022 Science Prize School of Physics associate professor Martin Mourigal is recognized by NSSA for "significant and insightful use of neutron inelastic scattering in the study of quantum materials." NASA Astrobiology Unveils New Research Coordination Network at AbSciCon 2022 Frank Rosenzweig, professor in the School of Biological Sciences and Georgia Tech Astrobiology faculty member, will serve as co-leader of the NASA Astrobiology Research Coordination Network, 'LIFE: Early Cells to Multicellularity.' Double Major Yashvardhan Tomar Receives 2022 Love Family Foundation Scholarship Dual physics and aerospace engineering major Yashvardhan Tomar has been selected to receive the 2022 Love Family Foundation Scholarship, one of the highest academic honors given to an undergraduate student. An Evolution of Astrobiology Three researchers from the Colleges of Engineering and Sciences are leading astrobiology’s largest national conference focused on the origins of life. Explore More News Our Strategic Plan: 2021-2030 Learn about our six internationally ranked schools Task Force for Racial Equity Subscribe to College of Sciences News and Notes Experts In The News Abigail (Abbie) Johnson Wins First in AbSciCon Student Poster Competition Abigail (Abbie) Johnson, who just received her Ph.D. in the Ocean Science and Engineering program of the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, won first place in the student poster competition at AbSciCon 2022, held May 15-20 at Georgia Tech. AbSciCon 2022 featured guest lectures and workshops on the latest research in astrobiology, and was sponsored by the NASA Astrobiology Program and the American Geophysical Union (AGU). Johnson won first place for her poster, Bacterial Clathrate-Binding Proteins in the Deep Subsurface Biosphere: Implications for Gas Clathrate Stability and Habitability. (You can see the poster and hear Johnson's presentation here.) American Geophysical Union , May 31, 2022 Dolphin Skincare: How These Sea Mammals Seem to Self-Medicate Their Skin Dolphins may rub on specific corals and sponges to treat their skin, researchers reported Thursday in the journal iScience. These stationary sea creatures may serve as drive-by pharmacies, dispensing a chemical cocktail that could treat bacterial or fungal infections or support skin health. The scientists said that cetaceans have not been observed self-medicating before. Some of these molecules may serve as immune boosters or sunscreens, said Julia Kubanek, professor in the School of Biological Sciences and School of Chemistry and Biochemistry, and vice president of Interdisciplinary Research, who wasn’t part of the work. People have known about corals’ and sponges’ medicinal properties for around 50 years, Kubanek said. “But dolphins may have known about how to use marine organisms as medicines much longer than we have,” she added. The New York Times , May 19, 2022 More College of Sciences in the News Events Jun 02 2022 The Civic Role of Universities in a Changing Educational Landscape Georgia Tech's Center for 21st Century Universities (C21U) invites you to attend a half-day event, "The Civic Role of Universities in a Changing Educational Landscape." More Events Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login