Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Sciences About Meet Our Leadership Contact Our Team Meet Dean Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair Schools Biological Sciences Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Psychology Research Research Centers Research Partnerships For Students Apply Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advisory Council Graduate Programs Admitted Students Explore Living Learning Community Conference Travel Funding Student Organizations Alumni Advisory Board Giving to the College Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Regents' Professors CoS Task Force for Racial Equity Covid-19 Tech Moving Forward: Returning to Campus Helping Stories Health and Status Updates Continuity Plans Covid on Campus: My Test Covid-19 Research Event Risk Planning Tool Symptom Checker News News and Experts Events E-Newsletters Outreach Podcast Contact Us Visit Us Departmental Directory Experts Guide Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home In the News Abigail (Abbie) Johnson Wins First in AbSciCon Student Poster Competition Abigail (Abbie) Johnson, who just received her Ph.D. in the Ocean Science and Engineering program of the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, won first place in the student poster competition at AbSciCon 2022, held May 15-20 at Georgia Tech. AbSciCon 2022 featured guest lectures and workshops on the latest research in astrobiology, and was sponsored by the NASA Astrobiology Program and the American Geophysical Union (AGU). Johnson won first place for her poster, Bacterial Clathrate-Binding Proteins in the Deep Subsurface Biosphere: Implications for Gas Clathrate Stability and Habitability. (You can see the poster and hear Johnson's presentation here.) American Geophysical Union , May 31, 2022 Dolphin Skincare: How These Sea Mammals Seem to Self-Medicate Their Skin Dolphins may rub on specific corals and sponges to treat their skin, researchers reported Thursday in the journal iScience. These stationary sea creatures may serve as drive-by pharmacies, dispensing a chemical cocktail that could treat bacterial or fungal infections or support skin health. The scientists said that cetaceans have not been observed self-medicating before. Some of these molecules may serve as immune boosters or sunscreens, said Julia Kubanek, professor in the School of Biological Sciences and School of Chemistry and Biochemistry, and vice president of Interdisciplinary Research, who wasn’t part of the work. People have known about corals’ and sponges’ medicinal properties for around 50 years, Kubanek said. “But dolphins may have known about how to use marine organisms as medicines much longer than we have,” she added. The New York Times , May 19, 2022 Origin of Life Theory Involving RNA-Protein Hybrid Gets New Support Chemists say they have solved a crucial problem in a theory of life’s beginnings, by demonstrating that RNA molecules can link short chains of amino acids together. The findings, published in Nature, support a variation on the ‘RNA world’ hypothesis, which proposes that before the evolution of DNA and the proteins it encodes, the first organisms were based on strands of RNA, a molecule that can both store genetic information — as sequences of the nucleosides A, C, G and U — and act as a catalyst for chemical reactions. “If the origins of RNA and the origins of protein are linked, and their emergence is not independent, then the math shifts radically in favor of an RNA–protein world and away from an RNA world,” says Loren Williams, professor in the School of Chemistry and Biochemistry who was not involved in the study. Scientific American , May 18, 2022 Faces of Resiliency The Faces of Resiliency video series highlights how communities are increasing their resilience to sea level rise, storm surge and flooding. The series, developed by Marine Extension and Georgia Sea Grant at the University of Georgia, features interviews with coastal residents and researchers who share stories of adapting to coastal hazards through community engagement and collaboration with scientists, nonprofits, or government agencies. The video "Conserving Georgia's Salt Water Marshes" features Joel Kostka, professor and associate chair of Research in the School of Biological Sciences, highlighting his studies on helping salt water marshes stabilize shorelines while providing space for marshes to migrate in the future. Marine Extension and Georgia Sea Grant, University of Georgia , May 18, 2022 The Search For How Life On Earth Transformed From Simple To Complex Once upon a time, all life on Earth was alien. But eventually, strange single-celled organisms thriving on a harsh planet gave way to complex, multicellular organisms made up of the basic building blocks we associate with life today, including carbon, oxygen and nitrogen. NASA announced this week that a new collaboration of astrobiology researchers across the country, working together under a Research Coordination Network called LIFE, will spend the next five years dedicating their efforts to understanding this journey from alien to familiar. Frank Rosenzweig, professor in the School of Biological Sciences, will co-lead the effort, along with former College of Sciences postdoctoral fellow Betül Kaçar, now an assistant professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. ScienceBlog, May 17, 2022 3 for 3: Georgia Tech triplets graduate a year early One name was heard repeatedly during Georgia Tech’s commencement ceremony Saturday. It’s Kashlan — as in Adam, Rommi and Zane Kashlan. The fraternal triplets, who will turn 19 later in May, graduated from the College of Sciences. Three years ago, they shared valedictorian honors from West Forsyth High School. Now, they’re graduating from college a year early, each with a B.S. in Neuroscience. “They’ve earned every bit of it,” their father, Dean Kashlan, said of their success. He graduated from Georgia Tech in 1985. (This story was also covered on 11Alive News.) Atlanta Journal-Constitution , May 13, 2022 Synthetic RNA Can Build Peptides, Hinting at Life’s Beginnings RNA has long been thought to be a key molecule in the primordial soup that was Earth a few billion years ago, because it can not only store genetic information but also act as an enzyme — two key functions needed for the development of life. But whether RNA-based life really existed, what it looked like, and how it evolved into the DNA-, RNA-, and protein-based organisms of today have remained open questions. Now, a study published in Nature points to the possibility that RNAs may have played a role in building early proteins by simply linking amino acids together. Loren Williams, professor in the School of Chemistry and Biochemistry, did not participate in the study but says if the origins of RNA "and the origins of protein are linked, and their emergence is not independent, then the math shifts radically in favor of an RNA–protein world and away from an RNA world.” The Scientist, May 12, 2022 Groundwater under Antarctica goes deep "Hidden below the surface of the Antarctic Ice Sheet, there is a vast mass of liquid water generated by the heating of Earth and frictional melting." That's how Winnie Chu, assistant professor in the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, begins her Perspectives editorial in Science with a look at a new study showing observations of saline groundwater saturating a sedimentary basin beneath the Whillans Ice Stream in West Antarctica. Chu, who is researching a potentially similar situation in Greenland, says the Antarctica reservoir is estimated to contain a water volume more than 10 times greater than that in the overlaying subglacial hydrologic system. "This finding highlights groundwater hydrology as a potentially critical piece in understanding the effect of water flow on Antarctic ice sheet dynamics," Chu writes. Science, May 5, 2022 Vast amount of water discovered hidden beneath Antarctica Hidden deep below the ice sheet that covers Antarctica, scientists have discovered a massive amount of water. The groundwater system, found in deep sediments in West Antarctica likely to be the consistency of a wet sponge, reveals an unexplored part of the region and may have implications for how the frozen continent reacts to the climate crisis, according to new research. "This finding highlights groundwater hydrology as a potentially critical piece in understanding the effect of water flow on Antarctic ice sheet dynamics," Winnie Chu, an assistant professor in the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, wrote in a commentary on the research that was published in Science. Chu, who conducts her own research on how climate change impacts Greenland glaciers, was not involved in the Antarctica study. MSN via CNN, May 5, 2022 Incoming School of Mathematics' Hubbard Chair Professor elected to National Academy of Sciences Svetlana Jitomirskaya, a Distinguished Professor at the University of California, Irvine who in Fall 2022 will be the inaugural Hubbard Chair Professor in the School of Mathematics, has been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, one of the world’s most respected scientific organizations. Jitomirskaya joins Mark Hay, Regents Professor and Teasley Chair in Environmental Biology in the School of Biological Sciences, as a Georgia Tech researcher elected to the NAS during the current cohort. Jitomirskaya is the recipient of the 2020 Dannie Heineman Prize for Mathematical Physics and the 2005 Ruth Lyttle Satter Prize from the American Mathematical Society. After her retirement from a 28-year career at Kennesaw State University, Elaine M. Hubbard, Ph.D. MATH 1972, established the Elaine M. Hubbard Endowed Chair in the School of Mathematics, the School’s first endowed faculty chair. This fund serves to support robust, leading-edge mathematics education and research at Georgia Tech. University of California, Irvine , May 4, 2022 Next Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences School of Chemistry & Biochemistry School of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences School of Mathematics School of Physics School of Psychology Privacy and Data EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Reach the College Apply Contact Us Visit Us Georgia Tech College of Sciences Office of the Dean Administration Building (Tech Tower), Second Floor, Room 202 225 North Ave NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0365 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login