Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Schaefer Cosmo Lab Lamont Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Research Projects People Publications News Opportunities Cosmo Lab Lamont Lab Letter Schaefer Cosmo Lab Lamont COSMO LAB LAMONT Cosmo Lab Lamont We develop and apply cosmogenic nuclide techniques to address key questions in Climate and Glacier Science, Sea Level change, Quaternary Geology and Extreme Events Active Research Projects GreenDrill Read about our upcoming effort to collect bedrock cores from beneath the Greenland Ice Sheet. These cores will help us determine the last time the Greenland Ice Sheet disappeared. Benchmarking Spatial Patterns of Glacier Change To better understand the trajectory of future glacier change, and related environmental variability, better regional influences on glacier behavior across the planet must be elucidated. For this reason, detailed knowledge of regional glacier change and their deviations from the global pattern are critically needed for paleoclimate and glacial-geomorphology communities. Carbon dioxide changes during the last deglaciation were tightly coupled to mountain glacier change. Yet, this compilation lacked data from the high latitudes. Full List of Research Projects We Support JEDI We believe in Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion in Geosciences, one of the least diverse STEM communities in the US and beyond. We recognize that we failed Sciences and our community over the last decades, and define the JEDI goals as central challenges for our community, for Lamont and for the Cosmo Group. We endorse the Lamont Black Lives Matter-Anti-Racism commitment as well as the Lamont Code of Conduct. Recent News February 17, 2021 Highlight Article: In situ cosmogenic 10Be–14C–26Al measurements from recently deglaciated bedrock as a new tool to decipher changes in Greenland Ice Sheet size Our recent article, led by Nicolás Young, in Climate of the Past was featured as a highlight article July 16, 2020 Greenland bedrock drilling project to understand past, future ice sheet melting Bedrock that lies below the ice sheet could reveal untold secrets about when the ice last retreated, laying the foundation for better models of future sea level rise. Read more July 16, 2020 UMass Amherst Climate Modeler and Team Will Drill Under Greenland’s Ice Sheet to Date its Last Retreat Read the feature on our GreenDrill project from UMass Amherst More News Publications Greenland rock cores to trace ice's past melting PDF Download Greenland was nearly ice-free for extended periods during the Pleistocene Schaefer, Joerg M. Finkel, Robert C. Balco, Greg Alley, Richard B. Caffee, Marc W. Briner, Jason P. Young, Nicolás E. Gow, Anthony J. Schwartz, Roseanne PDF Download The large MIS 4 and long MIS 2 glacier maxima on the southern tip of South America Carly Peltier Michael R. Kaplan Sean D. Birkel Rodrigo L. Soteres Esteban A. Sagredo Juan Carlos Aravena José Araos Patricio I. Moreno Roseanne Schwartz Joerg M. Schaefer PDF Download 10Be measurements in bedrock constrain erosion beneath the Greenland Ice Sheet margin Nicolás E Young Jason P Briner Josh Maurer Joerg M Schaefer PDF Download More Publications Photos Landing at our field site in the Canadian Arctic Fri, 12/18/2020 - 12:00 Sampling boulders on a moraine in the Canadian Arctic Fri, 12/18/2020 - 12:00 View towards Jakobshavn Isfjord Fri, 12/18/2020 - 12:00 Sampling bedrock emerging from the retreating Greenland Ice Sheet Fri, 12/18/2020 - 12:00 More Photos Columbia Affiliations Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences The Earth Institute Cosmo Lab Lamont - Comer 302/409Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, 61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Columbia University in the City of New York116th & Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Phone 8453658703 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close