Florida State University Search for: Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Alumni Public Health College of Social Sciences & Public Policy Home Undergraduate BSPH Degree Overview Bachelor’s Degree Requirements Course Descriptions BSPH Advising Information BS-MPH Combined Pathway Graduate MPH Program Overview MPH Program Requirements MPH Admissions - Domestic Applicants MPH Admissions - International Applicants Internship Information Alumni Research FAQs Faculty Staff Get Involved Contact For the latest information related to COVID-19, visit fsu.edu/coronavirus Giving back to the College Public Health Programs at Florida State University WHO WE ARE According to US News, Florida State University ranks within the top 20 public schools in the nation. We are also #26 in Best Colleges for Veterans. The Public Health program is one of the newest degree programs within the College of Social Sciences and Public Policy. The first Master of Public Health degree was conferred in 2004, while the Bachelor of Science in Public Health degree program was recently established in 2020. Although youthful, our program is comprised of knowledgeable and expert faculty in their chosen fields. Our programs provide students with foundational skills and expertise for success. WHAT IS PUBLIC HEALTH? There are many definitions to describe public health. In short, it is the science and art of preventing disease, prolonging life, and promoting health through organized community effort. The five disciplines within public health are epidemiology, statistics, environmental health science, health policy and management, and social and behavioral sciences. GET TO KNOW US We strive to provide an education that will prepare students for interdisciplinary public health careers. Get to know our programs! Bachelor of Science in Public Health Master of Public Health ACCREDITATION The Master of Public Health (MPH) Program is an accredited program through the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). We will go through the re-accreditation process again in 2025. The Bachelor of Public Health (BSPH) Program is a brand-new program, starting in Fall 2020. It is not accredited yet; however, it will go through the CEPH accreditation process alongside the MPH program in 2025. Please see the below accreditation reports for the MPH Program: Review for Accreditation (PDF) Result of Accreditation (PDF) Contact Us Location BEL 211 Hours 8AM - 5PM Phone (850) 644-4418 Mailing Address Public Health P.O. Box 3062160 113 Collegiate Loop Tallahassee, Florida 32306 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright