Florida State University Search for: Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Alumni Geographic Information Systems Laboratory College of Social Sciences & Public Policy Home Contact Us For the latest information related to COVID-19, visit fsu.edu/coronavirus Giving back to the College Welcome to the College of Social Science’s GIS Laboratory at FSU The mission of the COSS GIS Lab is to provide state of the art facilities and training for tomorrow’s professional planners and geographers who will be using GIS technologies. In addition, the lab endeavors to offer state of the art equipment, software and facilities for research agendas throughout the college that have GIS components. Departments such as, Political Science, Sociology, Economics and Interdisciplinary Studies all have been supported by the facilities in the GIS Lab. Relationships with other departments such as Biology, Meteorology, Geology, Classics, Anthropology, Archaeology and others have been established and all these departments have taken advantage of lab resources and software. The College of Social Sciences in partnership with the Institute of Science and Public Affairs has made considerable investment in the areas of software, hardware and human capital to accomplish this mission. There are multiple GIS Lab facilities located in the Bellamy Building in rooms 320 and 035. Other facilities exist within the Bellamy building that are used by graduate students in Urban Planning, Geography and other departments. Student Copy of ArcGIS Download the ArcGIS PRO application (Not Desktop) One year student licenses for ArcGIS Desktop are no longer supported by ESRI for our institution. We recommend you use ArcGIS Pro. Pro requires an account on the FSU ArcGIS On-Line (AGOL) portal. You can request an account via email to slewers@fsu.edu GIS Lab Instructors You will find that there are new AV systems in the labs. If you are having trouble operating these devices, please submit a ticket to the COSSPP IT support group at coss.fsu.edu/support and someone will contact you about one on one instruction. Click here for COSSGIS’ instructional video page Click here for Erdas Imagine Student Installation Instructions. Contact Us Location BEL 349 Hours 9AM - 5PM Phone (850) 631-2413 Fax (850) 644-5913 Mailing Address Geographic Information Systems Laboratory P.O. Box 3062160 113 Collegiate Loop Tallahassee, Florida 32306 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright