Florida State University Search for: Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Alumni Department of Urban & Regional Planning College of Social Sciences & Public Policy Home Programs Master’s Program Doctoral Program Joint Graduate Pathway Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Pathway Undergraduate Program Specializations Environmental Planning Neighborhood Planning and Community Design Planning for Developing Areas Real Estate and Economic Development Transportation Planning Research and Outreach Mark & Marianne Barnebey Planning & Development Lab Transportation, Land Use, and Accessibility Neighborhood Planning & Community Design Research Collaborative and Participatory Governance Planning for Healthy and Resilient Communties Department and People Department Vision and Mission Statements Contact DURP Faculty Faculty Affiliates Retired Faculty Staff Current Students Alumni and Friends Prospective Students Admissions Why FSU DURP? Apply to FSU DURP Financial Aid Visit FSU DURP Giving Back to DURP For the latest information related to COVID-19, visit fsu.edu/coronavirus Giving back to the College Welcome to the Florida State University Department of Urban and Regional Planning (FSU DURP). We are Florida’s oldest and largest planning program. We have the top-ranked master’s program in Florida and a Top 25 ranked master’s program nationally, according to the latest rankings published by Planetizen. For more than fifty years, we have been training professional planners to be change agents in their communities, and to use their knowledge and skills to improve the well-being of all citizens. FSU DURP is Global—with an internationally focused curriculum and unique study abroad opportunities Dynamic—with a broad interdisciplinary curriculum tailored to meet your interests Engaged—with the community through practical and applied projects Connected—with a network of alumni and extensive professional experience and development Community Oriented—with small classes, individual attention, and a community of faculty, staff, and students Transformative—of individual students and broader society with a focus on justice, equity, and resilience We provide planning education to a community of master’s students and doctoral students across five specializations: environmental planning neighborhood planning and community design planning for developing areas real estate and economic development transportation planning We also offer students the flexibility to develop a self-designed specialization from the vast field of planning. We pride ourselves on our strong record of placing graduates in rewarding jobs in a variety of public, private, and non-profit organizations in more than 40 states and two dozen countries. Our graduates plan locally and globally, and everywhere in between. We are well-known for our award-winning community-engaged work produced through the Mark and Marianne Barnebey Planning and Development Lab and Studio and the high-impact, innovative scholarship of our faculty. We strive to use our research to transform planning practice and planning scholarship. We encourage you to explore our webpage to learn more about the FSU DURP community and the wonderful work of our students and faculty. If you are interested in studying planning at FSU DURP, we encourage you to contact our staff who can answer any questions you might have about our programs. Contact Us Location 330 Bellamy Building Hours 8AM - 5PM Phone (850) 644 - 4510 Fax Mailing Address Department of Urban & Regional Planning P.O. Box 3062160 113 Collegiate Loop Tallahassee, Florida 32306 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright