Florida State University Search for: Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Alumni Askew School of Public Administration College of Social Sciences & Public Policy Home About us Remembering Reubin O’D. Askew Remembering Frank Persons Sherwood Contact Askew School Admissions Askew School By-Laws (PDF) Strategic Plan (PDF) Current Students MPA Degree Requirements Doctoral Degree Requirements Joint Pathways Student Resources Subject Librarians Programs International Admissions MPA Admissions Ph.D. Admissions Certificate Programs Visitor Services Alumni MPA Graduation and Job Placements Doctoral Graduate Job Placements FSU Alumni Association Affiliated Centers Social Justice and Innovation Lab Sustainability and Governance Lab Emergency Management and Homeland Security Florida Center for Public Management People Faculty Administration Emeritus Graduate Students Communications Publications View Conference Room Calendar View Computer Lab Calendar Giving Back For the latest information related to COVID-19, visit fsu.edu/coronavirus Giving back to the College Tweets by askewschoolfsu Welcome to the Askew School of Public Administration and Policy. “Promoting Scholarship, Democratic Governance, and Integrity.” We offer one of the oldest master’s degrees in the country, dating back to 1947. We have an exciting variety of topics to study, nationally-known faculty, and tremendous students. We strive to promote ethical and competent leadership in the management of public and non-profit organizations through training that emphasizes the integration of theory and practice, creative problem solving, integrity and stewardship, and skills in research and administration. Job Postings in the Askew School None at this time Like our public university peers, FSU will continue to deliver a mix of synchronous and asynchronous Remote Instruction and Distance Learning classes, as well as traditional In-Person (Face to Face) classes in the Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 semesters. FSU and the Askew School of Public Administration and Policy continue to monitor the COVID-19 situation and may need to revisit this mix of classes if conditions change. Regardless of the mode of instruction, the program remains committed to excellence in our course design and course delivery. We believe we are well-prepared to provide you with the knowledge and skills required to succeed in the field, and we look forward to seeing you in the program this Summer. Contact Us Location 627 Bellamy Building Hours Monday to Friday 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Phone (850) 644-3525 Fax Mailing Address Askew School of Public Administration P.O. Box 3062250 113 Collegiate Loop Tallahassee, Florida 32306 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright