Florida State University Search for: Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Alumni Gus A. Stavros Center College of Social Sciences & Public Policy Home About Us Unconquered by Debt Economic Freedom Research Contact Us For the latest information related to COVID-19, visit fsu.edu/coronavirus Giving back to the College Welcome to the Gus A. Stavros Center for the Advancement of Free Enterprise and Economic Education at Florida State University. The Center is a member of the Council for Economic Education, and as a Council member, assumes responsibility for furthering economic education both in schools and among community groups in its service area. Unconquered By Debt Unconquered by Debt is a series of workshops developed to promote financial wellness. The goals of the program are to enhance financial literacy and transform decision making so that students become wealth creators. The program will promote balanced financial choices so that students fully understand they are responsible for their current and future lifestyles. The focus is on key life choices: career options, earning, spending, saving, investing, managing credit, evaluating risk, insuring assets, and planning for retirement. The Center seeks to build relationships around campus to promote and implement the program. More information about the program can be found here. Sign up for any or all of this series of free workshops here. All workshops will be held at the Stavros Center for Economic Education, 250 S. Woodward Ave. (next to the UPS Store). Food and drinks will be provided at every event. Common Sense Economics Common Sense: Economics for Life! Course Package We are seeking to identify and cooperate with instructors interested in offering the course at their school. For details, please visit the Common Sense Economics web site. Gus Stavros and Jim Gwartney FSU Stavros Center Eminent Scholar, James Gwartney, recently had the opportunity to visit with Gus Stavros in his home in St. Petersburg. Everyone at the Center is most appreciative of the support of the Stavros family of our activities through the years. Contact Us Mailing Address Gus A. Stavros Center P.O. Box 3062160 113 Collegiate Loop Tallahassee, Florida 32306 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright