Florida State University Search for: Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Alumni Interdisciplinary Social Science Program College of Social Sciences & Public Policy Home Prospective Students Why Study ISS? What Can I Do with an ISS Degree? Degree Requirements Public Policy Certificate Distance Learning Advising Student Organizations Career Services Interdisciplinary Internship Credit Specializations & Concentrations Environmental Studies Law and Society Public Policy Social Entrepreneurship and Innovation (SIE) Public Service Urban Studies Faculty and Staff Faculty Staff Alumni and Friends For the latest information related to COVID-19, visit fsu.edu/coronavirus Giving back to the College Welcome to the Interdisciplinary Social Science Program Our world is highly complex. An interdisciplinary orientation to the social sciences allows students to pursue a holistic study of the complex issues and problems facing the social world. Our students are encouraged to apply a spectrum of perspectives to specific public policies and social issues. They are guided to identify an interdisciplinary “discipline” that draws on various fields of research and scholarship as they choose from several flexible options to pursue their individual interests. Designing Your Major The Interdisciplinary Social Science degree can be attained through several optional academic plans. Academic plans can be focused in flexible multidisciplinary academic paths, or through structured specializations. The ISS major consists of 43 credits that can be organized in various ways. Students are encouraged to work with academic and faculty advisors to plan the best options for pursuing a cohesive, multidisciplinary path toward their learning goals. Multidisciplinary Academic Plans Students will use at least two social science disciplines in pursuit of their academic goals. The major coursework can be organized to include primary and secondary departments, and the integration of departmental perspectives as a successful academic path. Specialized areas of study support a structured multidisciplinary plan of study related to specific interest areas. The specialized areas of study include pre-organized multidisciplinary options to advance student interests and learning within a specific area of study. Specialized Areas of Study Law and Society Urban Studies Public Service Environmental Studies Social Entrepreneurship and Innovation Public Policy Public Policy Certificate Certificate of Public Policy Internship Credit ISS offers Liberal Studies Formative Experience academic credit for internship experience. Eligibility for academic credit is determined on a case by case basis. For more information visit Interdisciplinary Internship Credit. Mission Statement The Interdisciplinary Social Science program engenders individually-driven social goals that guide student vision and learning attainment. We do this by promoting academic freedom and teaching intellectual capacities that support innovation and collaboration through interdisciplinary curriculum and experiential engagement. We focus our efforts on providing an environment which promotes holistic understandings of complex social dynamics through the integration of various disciplinary, social, economic, and political perspectives. Through student-centered teaching and purpose-driven advising, we cultivate conscious multidisciplinary dexterity and an integrative vision of complex social phenomena. 2022 ISS Bylaws Contact Us Location BEL 211 Hours 8AM - 5PM Hours may be adjusted because of the Covid pandemic. Please call to confirm Phone (850) 644- 4418 Mailing Address Interdisciplinary Social Science Program P.O. Box 3062160 113 Collegiate Loop Tallahassee, Florida 32306 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright