Florida State University Search for: Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Alumni Department Of Economics College of Social Sciences & Public Policy Home Undergraduate Program Major Requirements Minor Requirements Course Offerings & Recommendation Honors in the Major Student Awards Internship Program Specialized Studies Student Organizations Preparation for Graduate Studies in Economics Master's Program Master’s Program Program Overview Admissions Financial Support Career Day Applied Master’s Projects Recent Placements Featured Alumni Master’s in Applied Economics Events Contact Us PhD Program Program Overview Admissions PhD Curriculum Fields Financial Support Student Publications PHD Job Market Recent Placements Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Program Handbook Faculty & Staff Faculty Staff Emeritus Bylaws (Revised Spring 2022) For the latest information related to COVID-19, visit fsu.edu/coronavirus Giving back to the College Welcome to the Department of Economics We are located on the second floor of the south wing of the Bellamy Building. The Department of Economics is the largest department in the College of Social Sciences and Public Policy. We have 32 full time faculty and an active research program. At the undergraduate level, we offer an economics major, economics minor, as well as several specialized studies programs. At the graduate level, we offer both an MS program and a PhD program. Our MS program has a strong applied focus and is designed to be completed in twelve months. Our PhD program is arguably the most comprehensive in the State of Florida and has graduated over 250 doctoral students since 1967. View our 2021/2022 Ph.D. Job Market Candidates here Additional Information for Graduate Studies https://connect.fsu.edu/register/economics If you cannot find the information you are looking for, or you have suggestions for improvement of the website, please email our IT Coordinator or the Department Chair, Joseph Calhoun. Please Visit Our Graduate Programs Websites: Doctoral Program and Applied Master’s Program. Learn how giving makes a difference: Give Back to the College. Congratulations to the 2021 ASHE Dissertation Award Recipient @JasonBaron4! Jason is a new Assistant Prof in Econ at @DukeEcon and a Faculty Research Fellow at NBER. His research focuses on child welfare, the economics of education, and public finance.https://t.co/51vJI1lKxP pic.twitter.com/IORVF6WbYV — American Society of Hispanic Economists (@ASHE_ASSA) October 28, 2021 Contact Us Location Bellamy 253 Hours 8AM - 5PM Phone (850) 644-3835 Mailing Address Department Of Economics P.O. Box 3062160 113 Collegiate Loop Tallahassee, Florida 32306 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright