Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Tuttleman Counseling Services Menu About Us Overview and Eligibility Mission, Vision, & Diversity Statement Message to Our Community Meet Our Staff Contact Us FAQ Our Services Resiliency Resource Center Group Counseling Individual Counseling Psychiatric Services Referral Services Consultation Campus Alcohol & Substance Awareness Sexual Assault Counseling and Education Eating and Body Image Concerns Getting Started Getting Started Crisis Support Resources Screening for Mental Health Hotlines Helpful Groups & Links Helpful Apps Parents and Families Free Online Therapy Graduate Training Psychology Externship Social Work Internship Doctoral Internship in Health Service Psychology Post-Graduate Fellowship Forms A department within Student Affairs Home Our Services Campus Alcohol & Substance Awareness Services Services Individual Therapy Group Therapy CASA-related therapy and support groups are offered each semester and with consideration of student interest and need. Past groups have included an alcohol/substance use risk reduction group and an ACOA group. For a list of our current group offerings and descriptions, please go to http://counseling.temple.edu/group-counseling Psychiatric/Medication Services For some students, the use of medications can assist in the recovery process. Our psychiatrists are available to evaluate students for the use of medication such as buprenorphine (Suboxone, Zubsolv), naltrexone (Vivitrol), acamprosate (Campral) and other medications approved to assist in recovery. A psychiatric evaluation may also be useful for students who have psychiatric symptoms. Co-occurring psychiatric disorders are common in students with substance use disorders. A psychiatric evaluation can help determine if symptoms are related to the substance use or another psychiatric disorder. In cases of psychiatric disorders, psychiatrists can discuss medication options with the student. In those discussions, the student's recovery is always taken into consideration and medications with abuse potential (e.g. benzodiazepines, hypnotics) are avoided. Individual Psychoeducational Sessions (i.e., the Track 3 session) These sessions are specifically for students who have violated Temple’s Student Code of Conduct and who have been asked to complete a Track 3 psychoeducational session with a counselor in the CASA unit. Consultation/Referral Services Consultation and referral coordination are provided to individuals in need of treatment that is beyond the scope of what is available at TCS. Potential referrals may include those to other departments within the University, outside agencies/organizations, sober-living environments, and support groups that meet off campus (e.g., AA, NA, ACOA, OA, and GA). Resiliency Resource Center Group Counseling Individual Counseling Psychiatric Services Referral Services Consultation Campus Alcohol & Substance Awareness Our Approach Services Resources for Temple Students General Addiction Resources FAQs Sexual Assault Counseling and Education Eating and Body Image Concerns Navigating Recovery Resources Navigating Recovery Resources Temple University Tuttleman Counseling Services 1700 N. Broad St. - 2nd floor Philadelphia, PA 19121 Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.