Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Donate Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Policies Safety Policies Countway cares about your health! Please adhere to the following safety policies when visiting the library: The library building is currently available to Harvard ID holders only. In accordance with Harvard University's COVID update, as well as Dean Daley's community message: effective March 7, 2022, face coverings are optional inside Countway Library. Extra masks will still be available at our security desk. We ask that all patrons please respect and support one another’s personal health choices around masking, based on individual circumstances and risks. Eating and drinking remains prohibited throughout the library, with the exception of designated Café area tables. Communication Policies Flyers Flyers posted in Countway Library elevators must first be approved by the Countway Outreach Office. Please email the flyer image for approval. Once approved, flyers will receive a small Countway Cares (CC) stamp and will be posted in all four Countway elevators. Any flyers found without approval will be removed. Please note flyers will only be authorized within one month of event date. Flyers must be 8.5”x11”, landscape or portrait mode, and include contact information or a URL. Digital Monitors If your event takes place at Countway Library, is co-sponsored by Countway Library, or is hosted by a department housed within the Countway Library building, you may advertise your event on our digital monitors. Digital monitor slides appear for approximately 10 seconds at a time. It is recommended that you limit your text to a maximum of 3-4 lines for easy reading. Please note that slides will only be authorized within one month of the event date and will be removed from monitors the day after the event. To advertise on digital monitors: email the image to the Countway Outreach Team for approval. Image must be in high resolution and in JPG or PNG format. Image dimensions must be 1920 pixels (width) by 1080 pixels (height) Social Media Want us to mention your event? Tag Countway on Twitter @HMSCountway, Instagram @CountwayLibrary or Facebook @CountwayLibrary and we may mention or share your post! You can also connect with us using the hashtags #Countway or #CountwayLibrary. Book Donation Policy Full Book Donation Policy PDF. Please contact Len Levin with questions. Service Animals Policy Service animals are welcome in the library. About Policies Donate 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram