Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Director's Corner Elaine Martin, MSLS, DA Director & Chief Administrative Officer Email 617-432-5169 Welcome On behalf of the team at Countway Library, I welcome you to the Director’s Corner. As the Director and Chief Administrative Officer of the Library, I provide leadership in strategic planning, development and the promotion of library resources and services. The Countway Library continues its evolution into an active, collaborative, student-focused library of the 21st century, and it is my pleasure to share how the library fulfills its mission of service, education, and research through blogging. My goal is to create blog posts that serve as a resource for Harvard faculty, students, staff, the Longwood Medical Area, and the community to stay updated on happenings at the library. I encourage you to read my posts to stay connected with Countway’s commitment to service in a rapidly changing academic health sciences environment. Thank you, Dr. Elaine Martin "The Countway Library continues its evolution into an active, collaborative, student-focused library of the 21st century, and it is my pleasure to share how the library fulfills its mission of service, education, and research through blogging." - Dr. Elaine Martin Director & Chief Administrative Officer Click to Tweet this Recent Posts Week 113: The Week in Pictures May 27, 2022 A picture is worth a thousand words... Week 112: May Updates and Reminders May 19, 2022 It was nice to see everyone in the garden for our end of the semester ice cream social. Week 111: Graduation Week Activities and BML Update May 13, 2022 May 23rd starts a very special week for Harvard graduates. Several graduation ceremonies will be… Browse All Director's Posts About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram