Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Renovation Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Services Countway has a variety of services from research consultations to Interlibrary Loan options. Explore the menu items for course reserves, wireless printing, and more. If you're looking for databases, articles, journals, books, etc. please login to HOLLIS. Research & Instruction The Research and Instruction team creates evidence-based instruction and collaborates on research across project continuums. Research & Instruction Team About the Team Review Service Review Service Mediated Search Publishing & Data Services Research Data Management Best practices & support services for research data lifecycles Zotero - Citation Management Easy-to-use tool to help you collect, organize, cite, and share research Workshops The Schol-Comm team offers workshops in bioinformatics, research data management, and more Center for the History of Medicine The Center for the History of Medicine is a dynamic special collections, archives, and museum. The Center staff offer a variety of services to Harvard University, and the general public. Archives and Records Management Records Management Research Consultations Consultations Center Services All Center Services Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram