Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Renovation Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Countway Spaces Use this page to explore the many unique and innovative spaces at Countway Library. First Floor Collaborative Study Floor The first floor of Countway Library is designed with open seating and shared spaces for the purpose of collaborative study, activities, and events. Makerspace The renovation of Countway Library allowed for the creation of a Makerspace on our first floor. This innovative and collaborative space houses an Anatomage Table as well as a 3D printer and workspace for a range of academic and personal projects. Visit countway.info/makerspace for information on availability and consultations. Pet Therapy Area As a way to combat burnout, stress, and anxiety, Countway Library provides pet therapy events through our Countway Cuddles program! These events take place in our specially designed therapy pet area with rounded couch seating, located on the first floor near the Shattuck Street entrance. Learn more about the Countway Cuddles program at countway.info/cc. First Floor Classrooms Rooms #102 & #103 RESERVABLE These classroom spaces, located on the first floor of Countway Library, can be used individually or combined for larger events. To reserve these rooms, please complete the Countway Classroom Reservation Form and submit it to Luciana Witowski. Please note: due to current HMS COVID-19 policies, Countway Library is under strict guidelines regarding in-person events. For more information or any questions, contact Luciana Witowski. Second Floor Russell Reading Room Located on the second floor, the Russell Reading Room is a designated quiet study space with several large tables, comfortable seating, special collections, and reservable study rooms. Meditation Room Room #248 Located on the second floor within the Russell Reading Room, the Meditation Room is a private, quiet space where students can pray and meditate. The room is equipped with comfortable seating, prayer mats, a shoe rack, and soft, indirect lighting. Guidelines: The room is available for meditation, prayer, mindfulness, calming sensory overload, reflection and finding a moment of peace. The room may NOT be used as a lounge, study room, meeting room or any other activity that conflicts with the purpose of the space. This is a quiet room, housed within a quiet space on a quiet floor. Phone calls and Zoom meetings are not allowed in this room. Music or guided meditation audio is permitted only with the use of headphones. Shoes are to be removed and placed on the provided rack immediately upon entrance. For those who need to perform a ritual cleansing prior to practice, there is a single stall unisex restroom with a sink and a shower located diagonally across the second floor atrium, just outside the administrative offices. No food or beverages are allowed in the room. The room is not reservable in advance; it is available on a first-come first-served basis. Please respect the "occupied" sign on the door when in use. A maximum of two people may use this room at one time. Please keep use to a 15-minute maximum to allow others the chance to use the space. The Countway Space Committee manages this space and reserves the right remove anyone found abusing the space. Please report any issues or questions to countwayspace@hms.harvard.edu. Study Rooms & Chat Rooms RESERVABLE Located within the Russell Reading Room, several private study rooms are available for use by individuals or groups. Screens located outside each study room allow users to reserve their room onsite. Each study room is equipped with a dry erase board, monitor, and cords to connect most devices. On the opposite wall, chat rooms are available for quick meetings or phone calls on a first-come first-served basis. We ask that you please limit your chat room use to 30 minutes to allow equal access for everyone. Active Study Area Located adjacent to the Russell Reading Room, the Active Study Area is available for collaborative study in small groups. Game Room Room #236 Located in the Active Study area on the second floor, the Game Room is equipped with a Nintendo Switch! Our game collection includes Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Minecraft, Pokemon Snap, Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Splatoon 2, Arms, and several others. The room is currently available on a first-come first-served basis. Lactation Room Room #202 Located on the second floor, the Lactation Room is available to any Harvard ID holder who registers at hr.harvard.edu/lactation-support. This lockable room contains comfortable seating, a sink, a changing station, and a Medela pump (pump accessories must be provided by the user). Recognizing the importance and benefits of breastfeeding for working parents and their infants and in promoting a family-friendly work environment, Harvard provides more than 50 formal lactation rooms across the University. Any Harvard-affiliated nursing parent, including faculty, staff, and students, can register to use a Harvard lactation room. Fifth Floor Lahey Room Room #518 RESERVABLE The Lahey Room is located on the fifth floor of Countway Library. If you are interested in holding an event in this space, please complete the Countway Lahey Reservation Form and submit it to Luciana Witowski. Please note: due to current HMS COVID-19 policies, Countway Library is under strict guidelines regarding in-person events. For more information or any questions, contact Luciana Witowski. Outdoor Spaces Countway Community Garden RESERVABLE Founded in 2011 by a collective of dedicated Longwood Medical Area volunteers, the Countway Community Garden is now home to nearly fifty raised garden beds and hosts events throughout the growing season. Learn more about this unique campus space at countway.info/garden. Huntington Avenue Plaza Countway's recent renovation created a new main entrance at 695 Huntington Avenue, which features several benches and green-lined steps for the enjoyment of the public. Music performances and other events will be held in this area during the summer months. This space also contains a map of the campus, as well as a public-access Little Free Library! Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram