Academic and Student Affairs Mission Statement and Values Our Team Org Chart Think and Do The Extraordinary Support Student Success Counseling Center The Student Health Center will undergo some important renovations from May 23rd - May 31 and the building will be closed to all traffic. The Counseling Center will remain open and fully functioning in a telehealth capacity during this time. To reach a clinician during office hours or to set up an appointment, call 919-515-2423. If you are experiencing a mental health emergency after hours, call 919-515-2423 and press #2 to be connected with the on-call counselor. MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content Getting Started About Us About the Counseling Center Our Staff Hours and Locations Assessment & Data Statistics Costs and Insurance Donate to the Counseling Center Our Services Services at the NC State Counseling Center Academic Counseling Addictive Behavior Counseling Career Counseling Case Management and Off-Campus Referrals Insurance Information Steps for Scheduling with an Off-Campus Provider Questions to Ask Potential Off-Campus Providers Group Counseling Psychiatric Services Sexual Assault & Interpersonal Violence Services for Veterans CALS Counseling Services Program Resources Resources Forms Share a Student Concern Off-Campus Referral Database RINTS MiResource Self Help Resources Campus Resources Online Screenings Tuffy Fund For Parents For Faculty/Staff Workshops and Programs Workshops and Programs Drop-In Spaces Stop the Stigma Mental Health Ambassador Program Graduate Training Graduate Training Counseling Practicum & Internship Social Work Internship Graduate Assistantships Doctoral Psychology Internship Post-Master’s Counseling/Social Work Fellowship Campus Resources Many NC State departments and organizations offer help or support for students in the campus community. The directory below will connect you with organizations, resources, and services you may wish to consult for information or assistance. Academic Advising Services Academic Advising Services provides advising on a walk in basis as well as the opportunity to Ask an Advisor via email. Academic Advising Services’ website houses a comprehensive knowledge base where you can find answers to popular academic questions. Both current and prospective NC State students may take advantage of Academic Advising Services. Bias Incident Response Team The Bias Incident Response Team (BIRT) at NC State, coordinated through the Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity, supports the campus community by providing a system through which a person can report incidents of bias on and around campus. You can report an incident and get support. Chaplain’s Cooperative Ministry Chaplains’ Cooperative Ministry (CCM) is an interfaith organization of representatives from various religious traditions. Members both ordained and non-ordained engage in campus ministry at NC State. While CCM does not interfere with denominational programs, it stresses its members’ commitment to collaboration while it develops relationships and sponsors joint events. Each member group, while not denying the truths of its own tradition, willingly cooperates and supports the other members in their communities’ developments. Disability Services Office The Disability Services Office is committed to positive action to secure equal opportunity to academic programs for all admitted students. Please contact us if you are a person with a disability and desire any accommodations. McKimmon Center for Extension and Continuing Education The McKimmon Center for Extension and Continuing Education is a hub of activity encompassing a wide array of learning opportunities, professional meeting facilities and university services. Through our partnerships, dynamic member opportunities, and a comprehensive range of applied research and technical assistance, you will find the solutions to your continuing education, professional development, meeting facility and public policy needs. Military and Veterans Resource Center The Military and Veterans Resource Center is the university’s centralized resource to coordinate integrated support to military-affiliated students. The primary objective is to ensure that veterans and military affiliated students feel a strong sense of belonging at NC State. Programs and resources are administered to support in the transition to campus, persistence to graduation and transition from campus into career. Multicultural Student Affairs The Department of Multicultural Student Affairs (MSA) researches, designs and implements unique programs that promote the pursuit of academic success, retention and graduation of students, with an emphasis on African American, Native American and Hispanic/Latino students. Many of the programs and services expand students’ cultural horizons while honoring their respective cultural experiences. Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (OSFA) assists students and parents in applying for and securing financial assistance and scholarships when family resources are insufficient to meet educational expenses. Office of International Services Advisors and volunteers at the Office of International Services (OIS) provide educational programs, advising, immigration processing, cross-cultural experiences, and community extension activities. Our programs and services enable the international student and scholar community, faculty and students, and the broader community around us to achieve inter-cultural success and excellence both on and off campus. Policies, Regulations, and Rules NC State is committed to providing administration and operations information clearly, concisely, and accessibly. Therefore the university has an online cataloging system for its policies, regulations, and rules. The Policies, Regulations and Rules website is the central repository for university policies, regulations, and rules (PRRs). Direct your questions regarding a particular policy, regulation, or rule to the Source Department noted in each policy, regulation, and rule. Project SAFE Project SAFE is an ally training program that works to create a climate in which members of the NC State community can discuss gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender issues openly. Through education, exposure, and training, Project SAFE increases awareness of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender issues, needs, and concerns. Most importantly, Project SAFE’s fundamental goal is education. Project SAFE is not a political structure, nor is it an activist group. Instead, the program educates the university community on issues related to sexual orientation, thereby creating a safe, welcoming environment for all persons, regardless of sexual orientation. Registration and Records Registration and Records provides MyPack Portal, where you can register for courses, view your official academic record, and order transcripts. Student Health Services Student Health Services offers confidential, professional health care ranging from general medical care to specialized treatments—located in the Student Health Center. Suicide Prevention Program NC State University is one of 40 colleges & universities awarded 2012 Garrett Lee Smith funding from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. The program has an overall goal of achieving a university culture and climate that encourages outreach and help-seeking behaviors and discourages prejudice and stigma, in order to achieve a long-term reduction in completed suicides and suicide attempts. Trans 101 Workshop Trans 101 is a two-hour workshop designed to introduce participants to the spectrum of transgender, gender-nonconforming, and gender-questioning identities and expressions. The workshop is designed to prepare participants to understand and address the needs of transgender students. University Career Center Figuring out what to do after college can be intimidating, but planning early and getting help can make all the difference. Counselors at the University Career Center work with professionals in your field, faculty, staff and students to give you the knowledge, insight and resources you need to get you moving and keep you going in the right direction. We know you’re motivated to find career opportunities following college – we share your excitement and can help you get there successfully by making the steps more manageable. University Police Department The NC State University Police Department provides professional law enforcement, effective emergency response, crime and incident reduction and community outreach and education on campus. Undergraduate Tutorial Center By hiring and training qualified students to provide a variety of tutorial services, the University Tutorial Center (UTC) promotes independent learning and therefore contributes to NC State undergraduate students’ academic success. The UTC interacts with on and off-campus partners to share expertise about the tutoring field. The UTC is certified by the College, Reading and Learning Association (CRLA) at all three levels. Women’s Center Serving students, staff, and faculty of NC State, the Women’s Center provides a broad range of gender-related programming and support. The Women’s Center strives to create a safe space for women to explore, learn, and reach their maximum potential in a more equitable society. Through programs that address matters from body image and safety to developing leadership skills, the Women’s Center enhances the quality of life and learning for students in the NC State community. Counseling Center 2nd Floor, Student Health Center 2815 Cates Avenue at Dan Allen Drive Raleigh, NC 27695-7312 919.515.2423 Facebook Twitter Instagram About the Counseling Center Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback Site Index About Academic and Student Affairs About Services and Resources Departments Giving Search for: © 2022 Counseling Center | Log in