Academic and Student Affairs Mission Statement and Values Our Team Org Chart Think and Do The Extraordinary Support Student Success Counseling Center The Student Health Center will undergo some important renovations from May 23rd - May 31 and the building will be closed to all traffic. The Counseling Center will remain open and fully functioning in a telehealth capacity during this time. To reach a clinician during office hours or to set up an appointment, call 919-515-2423. If you are experiencing a mental health emergency after hours, call 919-515-2423 and press #2 to be connected with the on-call counselor. MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content Getting Started About Us About the Counseling Center Our Staff Hours and Locations Assessment & Data Statistics Costs and Insurance Donate to the Counseling Center Our Services Services at the NC State Counseling Center Academic Counseling Addictive Behavior Counseling Career Counseling Case Management and Off-Campus Referrals Insurance Information Steps for Scheduling with an Off-Campus Provider Questions to Ask Potential Off-Campus Providers Group Counseling Psychiatric Services Sexual Assault & Interpersonal Violence Services for Veterans CALS Counseling Services Program Resources Resources Forms Share a Student Concern Off-Campus Referral Database RINTS MiResource Self Help Resources Campus Resources Online Screenings Tuffy Fund For Parents For Faculty/Staff Workshops and Programs Workshops and Programs Drop-In Spaces Stop the Stigma Mental Health Ambassador Program Graduate Training Graduate Training Counseling Practicum & Internship Social Work Internship Graduate Assistantships Doctoral Psychology Internship Post-Master’s Counseling/Social Work Fellowship Summer is here! Who is eligible for Counseling Center services over the summer? Is there a fee? We have answers for all of your questions! Learn more about summer fees The Counseling Center provides mental health services and resources to students - together we can create a thriving community for all students. Appointments Location and Hours Services Our Team Recent News | Read more... The Gift of a Student’s Trust May 19, 2022 Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. Howling Success: Lauren Bradley February 8, 2022 As a Mental Health Ambassador for the Counseling Center and Prevention Services, Lauren Bradley connects her classmates with helpful resources and support groups on campus. As Part of the Pack, You’re Never Alone September 8, 2021 For Suicide Prevention Awareness Month, NC State Counseling and Prevention Services is identifying some of the risk factors for suicide and pointing community members to resources that can help. Search for: Counseling Center 2nd Floor, Student Health Center 2815 Cates Avenue at Dan Allen Drive Raleigh, NC 27695-7312 919.515.2423 Facebook Twitter Instagram About the Counseling Center Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback Site Index About Academic and Student Affairs About Services and Resources Departments Giving Search for: © 2022 Counseling Center | Log in