Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Renovation Services Find Materials Course Reserves Interlibrary Loan BorrowDirect HOLLIS COVID-19 Resources Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Find Materials Countway offers a variety of services for finding and borrowing materials. The Hollis catalog is Harvard Library's primary search tool. With it you can find all library holdings for books, journals, databases, and more. Countway's new book locker system allows you to easily access your reserved materials onsite. There are two self checkout stations at Countway. Patrons also have the option of using a mobile app to check out books while at the library; you can find it by searching "Harvard Library Checkout" in your app store! Additional Resources Interlibrary Loan Submit an ILL request and we'll search libraries around the world to find a copy for you. BorrowDirect Request items from partner libraries for delivery to Harvard, free of charge Course Reserves We work with instructors to make course material available to all students. More Databases Browse the medicine and public health database list Purchase Request Have something you'd like to see the library buy and add to our collections? Services Find Materials Course Reserves Interlibrary Loan BorrowDirect HOLLIS COVID-19 Resources 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram