Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway News Week 111: Graduation Week Activities and BML Update Elaine Martin May 13, 2022 Director’s Corner Graduation Week May 23rd starts a very special week for Harvard graduates. Several graduation ceremonies will be taking place, honoring the classes of 2022, 2021, 2020. Graduation day is the culmination of the time, energy, and hard work students have put into gaining qualifications, and celebrates their many academic accomplishments achieved along the way. This day is a once in a lifetime experience giving Harvard students the chance to proudly wear their regalia whilst surrounded by classmates, faculty, families, and friends. Graduation also allows students the opportunity to highlight and reflect on the end of one chapter, and welcome new chapters to come. It is the most important day of the academic year. Therefore, it is important the library participates in graduation week. The library is excited to host students and their guests to campus. The library will be open normal business hours the entire week, with extended lobby hours on Sunday, May 29th (opening at 10am instead of 12pm). The Coop will be open and newly stocked on Saturday and Sunday (in addition to normal hours throughout the week). In addition, Countway staff have graciously volunteered to give building tours to visitors who are interested in exploring our new spaces. Countway’s mission is to share its rich resources with the entire Longwood Medical campus; foster diversity, inclusion, and wellness through building community, and bring the inside out and the outside in. We are looking forward to celebrating graduation and welcoming students and their guests throughout the week. Please see below ceremony schedules and links to further details surrounding the week of graduation: Watch the HMS/HSDM ceremonies on then HMS Graduation webpage and the HMS YouTube channel. Visit the HMS Graduation webpage profiles of graduates, graduation-related stories, and the latest information about the ceremonies. Times are U.S. Eastern. Wednesday, May 25, 12:30 p.m. — HMS Master’s Graduation Ceremony, Class of 2022 Thursday, May 26, 2 p.m. — HMS/HSDM MD/DMD Class Day Ceremony, Class of 2022 Thursday, May 26, 5:15 p.m. — HMS Division of Medical Sciences PhD Hooding Ceremony, Class of 2022 Friday, May 27, 10:15 a.m. — HMS Division of Medical Sciences PhD Hooding Ceremony, Classes of 2020 and 2021 Sunday, May 29, 1 p.m. — HMS/HSDM MD/DMD Graduation Ceremony, Classes of 2020 and 2021 Thursday, May 26, and Sunday, May 29 — Harvard Commencement Exercises Visit Harvard's Commencement Office website to learn about and to watch livestreams of the University-wide events. If you would like to view the many graduation events planned at Countway, visit our website. Thank you for helping to make this week special for our graduates and their guests. BML Update (from Meyer) During Phase I, we moved 249 pallets of L2 Journals, BML Publications and materials from L1 amounting to 5,947 boxes From Special Collections, as of the end of the day yesterday, we moved 61 pallets containing 1,875 boxes Collections that have been completed are the LC regular size, BML Folio, Serials, OS Serials, Pamphlets, Holmes Regular & Oversize, and Hyams Regular & Oversize BML regular size books are 85% complete. LC Folio (f&ff) is roughly 50% complete Bound volumes that we have not started packing yet include Temp & Dupe, Temp & Dupe OS, Reading Room Books, Reports, Osler We will begin packing non book materials which include Daguerrotypes, Graphic Visual, Images, Pictures, Portaints, Satires, Subject, Storer Medal Collection, Artifacts or Framed Works in the coming weeks We also have started going through the areas that we have completed to check for items we missed. We have found a couple of boxes so far and we are barcoding and marking those boxes as interfiles within their respective call number ranges. As a reminder, Countway will be completely closed on Monday, May 30th and Tuesday, May 31st in observance of Memorial Day. These are black out days for the BML project—we can all use the break, so enjoy the time off. Elaine About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram