Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Touring Countway Explore our newly renovated space! Private tours of the newly renovated Countway Library are now available! Tuesdays 5-6pm Thursdays 1-2pm For larger groups, or to request a different date or time, please contact us. Please enjoy our narrated walkthrough of the Countway Library renovated spaces in this video. Interactive Virtual Tour (February 2021) February 2021 Virtual Tour Building Accessibility Wheelchair Accessibility There is an accessible bridge leading to both the Huntington and Shattuck entrances of Countway Library. There is also an ADA compliant ramp at both entrances which lead down to the Countway Courtyard and the rest of the Longwood Medical Campus. There is also a new ramp in the Medical School quad, located between 180 and 260 Longwood Avenue. The ramp is at the other end of the quad, on the right side of Gordon Hall. Countway is behind Gordon Hall on the left. Listed below are links to map views of Countway Library: Countway Library on Google Maps ADA Accessibility Campus Map Longwood Medical Area Maps About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram