Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Renovation Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Classes & Events Countway is happy to offer a variety of community events from bioinformatics courses to therapy pet visits. Please explore the classes & events calendar for upcoming events or explore the menu items for the short story dispenser, community garden, and more! Countway Outreach Office The Countway Outreach Office produces many of the programs and initiatives highlighted in the menu on the left. Our charge is to support the students, staff and faculty of HMS, HSDM, and Harvard Chan from a wellness and community standpoint. To this end, we are always interested in hearing from our users about what you would like to see at Countway. Whether you are a student with an workshop idea, a department looking to co-sponsor an event, a faculty member interested in connecting with the broader Longwood Campus community, or even an outside organization looking to partner with Countway, we want to hear from you! Please contact us anytime. Communications The Countway Outreach Office manages external library communications, including social media and the Countway Communiqué newsletter, as well as all advertising inside the library building. If you would like to advertise your program or event through Countway, please refer to our communication policies. Connect with Us Follow Countway's official social media accounts for event information, resource highlights, building updates, and more. Find us on Twitter @HMSCountway, Instagram @CountwayLibrary or Facebook @CountwayLibrary. Enjoying Countway's new redesigned space? Post a selfie and tag #CountwaySelfie to share it with us! Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram