Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Renovation Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Short Story Dispenser “The art of storytelling goes back more than 17,000 years to the earliest known place, the Lascaux Caves in southwestern France, where ancient stories are told through painted symbols on the walls of the caves.” - Short Édition’s website Countway has partnered with Short Édition to bring the art of storytelling to the community through the Short Story Dispenser. The Short Story Dispenser provides literature to the community at the push of a button. Literature from the dispenser comes in the form of short stories or poetry that take only 1, 3, or 5 minutes to read. The stories' content comes from both classic literature and modern authors. The literature on the dispenser is among the best submitted to Short Édition. Stories print on an eco-friendly paper, certified FSC and BPA-free, and print without inks. The dispenser is on the first floor of Countway Library. We invite you to share with us on social media! Use the hashtag #CountwayStories, or tag our account and share photos of your favorite stories. For questions or comments about Countway’s Short Story Dispenser, please contact Matthew Noe. Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram