Explore Current Hours and Operations Skip to Content Barnes Center at The Arch Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section How to Get to Us Facilities and HoursExpand Collapse section Stay Safe: Barnes Center at The Arch Barnes Center at The Arch North Campus South Campus Drumlins Country Club Meet the Staff Meet the Students Patient Portal Wellness Portal Forms and Requests Policies and Procedures Wellness Philosophy Confidentiality Privacy Billing and Fees ServicesExpand Collapse section Emergency Make an Appointment After-Hours Care Counseling Health CareExpand Collapse section Trans and Gender Affirming Services Immunizations Laboratory Medical Services Travel Honwadiyenawa’sek Student Health Insurance Nutrition Personal Training Pharmacy Psychiatry Referrals Sexual Health Sexual and Relationship Violence Substance Use Leave of Absence Be MindfulExpand Collapse section Crowley Family MindSpa Meditation Pet Therapy Sanvello Soul Series Yoga Be ActiveExpand Collapse section Aquatics Climbing Wall Cross Country Ski and Snowshoe Center Esports Fitness Centers Fitness Classes Golf and Tennis Ice Sports Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventure Personal Training Sport Clubs Be InvolvedExpand Collapse section Events Calendar Professional Development Peer Educators Programs Staff Employment Student Employment Volunteer Campus CommunityExpand Collapse section Help a Student Faculty and Staff Resources Education and Resources Wellness Leadership Institute Connect Give Emergency Contact Us Search Search Counseling Home Counseling – Barnes Center at The Arch – Syracuse University If you are experiencing a life-threatening emergency or you are in immediate danger, call 911. 24-Hour Support Appointments Group and Individual Therapy Relationship Counseling Support Services Explore Counseling Resources 24-Hour Support Call 315.443.8000 Link Syracuse University students experiencing a mental health crisis, seeking support for sexual assault or relationship violence, or needing urgent medical consultation can receive free confidential services 24 hours a day, seven days a week by calling 315.443.8000. Please note, routine consultations should hold until the next business day. Appointments Link In-person and virtually, appointments are available either same day or in advance. Please note, your provider or therapist may determine that due to certain circumstances virtual/teletherapy is no longer appropriate and other delivery or treatment options will be explored. Call 315.443.8000 Group and Individual Therapy Link Common Issues Addressed in Individual Therapy and Group Therapy Link Anger Anxiety Depression Difficulty expressing thoughts and feeling. Difficulty in social situations and making friends. Feeling invisible or not heard. Frequent arguments with others. Eating Concerns Feeling Overwhelmed Identity Exploration Isolation Issues related to diversity, equity, inclusion, accessibility and social justice. Issues related to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) identities, exploring and affirming gender identity. Loneliness Life Transitions Powerlessness Relationship Problems Self-doubt Stress Management Substance Use Trauma What Can I Expect from Group Therapy? Link Group therapy focuses on developing insight, changing behavior, and improving relationship skills. In the group setting, students struggling with similar concerns can share feedback with each other and learn new ways of coping. In our Group Therapy program, group members meet weekly for 90 minutes with one to two staff therapists throughout the semester. Types of Groups Link Process Groups Link Members explore a variety of presenting concerns and increase self-awareness by exchanging genuine and honest feedback. Members practice assertiveness and other interpersonal skills to use in daily life and can develop more positive and meaningful relationships. Options Education Group Link The Options Education Group focuses on the impact of substance use on physiology, perception and decision-making. The group also discusses the progression of use and ways to reduce the risk of substance use. Skills Groups Link Members learn certain skills to cope with and manage concerns such as anxiety, depression, emotional regulation and stress management. Most groups meet throughout the semester and focus on learning skills to use inside and outside of group. What Can I Expect from Individual Therapy? Link Individual therapy can provide an opportunity to talk confidentially with an objective, caring professional about your concerns and gain insights for a better understanding of one’s difficulties. These insights are then used to create a plan of action to carry out in one’s daily living. During your initial consultation, you will provide information about your presenting concerns, relevant history and identified possible goals for counseling. At the end of the appointment, your therapist will provide related recommendations and options that best meet your needs. You will have the opportunity to discuss the recommendations and make a plan for how to move forward. For issues that might be better served by long-term therapy, a referral to a community provider will be explored. Spring 2022 Group Therapy Opportunities Link Schedule an initial consultation to meet with a therapist and discuss group options by calling the Barnes Center at The Arch at 315.443.8000. Adventure-Based Counseling Link Build leadership and relationship skills, self-esteem, communication, trust, respect and responsibility. Facilitated through multiple teams within the Barnes Center, this series is a hybrid of adventure-based activities and experiential processing to foster personal growth. Status: Open Black, Indigenous, People of Color (BIPOC) Students: Releasing the Invisible Weight Link Among BIPOC students, the burden of race-related stress, stereotype threat and impostor syndrome may add to the stress of college. This group offers a safe space to connect with others and process the challenges of navigating communities. Separate undergraduate and graduate sessions available. Facilitators: Undergraduate Group: Simone Adams, Jordan Gaines Graduate Group: Alexis James, Maricelis Abreu Status: Undergraduate Group: Open Graduate Group: Open Building Resilience Skills Workshop Link This group is a skill-based, process group designed to help students understand more about their own personal resilience skills and to develop additional skills related to resilience. Facilitator: Melissa Parker, Shyla Powell Status: Open LGBTQIA+ Therapy Group Link Within a group setting, students are encouraged to process personal experiences related to identities, connect with peers and discuss navigating identity within a campus community. Facilitators: Julie Woulfe, Lorrie Bierman Status: Open Medication Education Sessions Link Attended as an individual or in a group setting, sessions will discuss the purpose of medication, basic information and myths, alternative therapies and the importance of active participation in therapy. Mindfulness and Self-Compassion Workshop Link This group introduces students to the concept of mindfulness as a means for tolerating stress and managing difficult or painful emotional experiences. Facilitators: Mansi Brat, Sarah Bennett Status: Open Options Prevention Group Link A structured space for students to explore their relationship with substances. This group is informed by strategies of motivational interviewing, cognitive behavioral, narrative and experiential approaches to substance use prevention and treatment. Facilitators: Aaron Klein, Jin Zhao Status: Open Options Recovery Group Link An interpersonal process group designed to promote healing and recovery from the use of alcohol and other drugs. This group offers an opportunity for students who are working an abstinence based recovery program and to connect with others. Facilitators: Melissa Parker, Edward Millet Status: Open Sexual Violence Survivor’s Group Link This group is for all students who have been victims of sexual violence. Within an understanding and accepting environment, members share experiences and feelings. Facilitators: Fei Shen, Virginia L. Evans Status: Open Supporting Students with Anxiety Link This group is for students experiencing difficulty managing stress and anxiety. Within a supportive environment, this semi-structured group provides education and skill building resources for relaxation and coping. Facilitator: Alexis James Status: Open The Daring Way™ Link The Daring Way™ is a highly experiential methodology based on the research of Dr. Brené Brown. During the process, we explore topics such as vulnerability, courage, shame and worthiness. Facilitators: Susanne Rios, Yunzhuo (Zoey) Liu Status: Open Understanding Yourself and Others Link In a safe and supportive environment, this interpersonal process group offers an opportunity to relate to those experiencing similar concerns. Separate undergraduate and graduate sessions available. Facilitators: Undergraduate Groups: Edward Millet, Danqing Huo, London Hill, Damaris Colon Graduate Group: Edward Millet, Yunzhuo (Zoey) Liu Status: Undergraduate Groups: Open Graduate Group: Open Relationship Counseling Link Relationship support services are available to undergraduate and graduate students. To begin, please call 315.443.8000 to schedule an initial consult. Couple’s Enrichment Link Couple’s Enrichment is a psychoeducational experience aimed at creating stronger relationships. Facilitators and participants will work in conjunction to identify the skills they feel need improvement such as communication, stress management, conflict resolution, creating intimacy and more. Couple’s Enrichment is suitable for all couples, at all stages of development. Please note, this is not the same as Couple’s Therapy, as it is focused on enrichment of skills as opposed to processing specific problems or challenges for couples. Couple’s Therapy Link Couple’s Therapy is a psychotherapeutic experience aimed at helping couples process thoughts, behaviors and patterns contributing to challenges the couple is experiencing. Examples of appropriate uses for Couple’s Therapy include the following. Adjusting to co-habituating. Balancing a co-parenting relationship. Creating and maintaining intimacy. Healing after infidelity. Resolving sexual issues. Strengthening trust. Family Therapy Link When a child transitions to an adult and leaves home, it can cause a shift to the family system. Family Therapy gives students and their local family members an opportunity to process that shift and adapt to the change. Virtual sessions are available to students and families within New York State. In-person sessions are available to students and families within the Syracuse area. Family Therapy can help with the following. Adjusting to life cycle changes. Feelings of being homesick. Fostering independent identity development. Maintaining a system of support from a distance. Processing and healing from impactful childhood experiences. Resolving conflict with siblings. Roommate Mediation Link A student’s living environment can have a huge impact on their mental health and academic performance. Available psychoeducational and psychotherapeutic services can assist cohabiting students in developing a functional living environment. Cohabiting students are invited to explore the following through Roommate Mediation. Discussing finances. Negotiating boundaries. Resolving conflict. Strengthening connection. Support Services Link Eating Disorder Support Services Link Eating disorders are a complex psychological and medical concern that can impact multiple areas of a student’s life. The most effective strategy for providing eating disorder treatment is through a treatment team approach that incorporates a range of services that address the complex factors contributing to the eating disorder. Hours Link Please call the Barnes Center at The Arch at 315.443.8000 to schedule an appointment. What should I do if I think I may have an eating disorder? Link If you believe that you or someone you know has an eating disorder it is important to seek professional assessment and support. The Syracuse University Eating Disorder Treatment Team can be accessed through the Barnes Center at The Arch by calling 315.443.8000. Who are the members of the Eating Disorder Treatment Team? Link The Eating Disorder Treatment Team consists of a multidisciplinary staff including the following: Health Care medical provider, psychiatric nurse practitioner, dietitian Counseling therapists Case managers from the Dean of Students Office What does an assessment with the Eating Disorder Team involve? Link In order to determine appropriate treatment needs, a comprehensive assessment needs to be conducted. This assessment will include: A health care medical evaluation. A mental health assessment with counseling. A dietary assessment with a dietitian. After the student has completed the above assessments, the Eating Disorder Treatment Team will meet to discuss their overall assessment of the student and to develop treatment recommendations. Depending on the student’s level of need, services may be provided by the team, the student may be referred to community based treatment resources or in some instances the student may be encouraged to take a medical leave of absence from the University to seek more intensive treatment. What can I expect if the Eating Disorder Team provides services to me? Link If services are provided via the treatment team, you can expect regular appointments with a therapist, dietitian and health care provider. The Eating Disorder Treatment Team collaborates to provide the following support services: Medical: Management of any medical consequences of disordered eating, prescribing medication if necessary, regular weight checks if appropriate. Nutritional: Education about healthy eating and the impact of certain behaviors upon health and wellness. Weekly meal plans may be developed to assist the student in developing healthy eating habits. Mental Health: Develop strategies for changing the behavior patterns that contribute to disordered eating. Additionally, addressing co-occurring problems (e.g., anxiety, depression, etc.) that contribute to disordered eating. What if I need more intensive or ongoing treatment? Link There may be times when recommendations will be made for the student to pursue intensive outpatient treatment, residential based treatment or hospitalization. These recommendations will be determined by the Eating Disorder Treatment Team at the time of assessment and reviewed on an ongoing basis. Do my parents/family have to know that I am receiving services? Link If students are age 18 or older, all services are confidential. However, we invite and encourage students to maintain open dialogue with parents/family members due to the potential serious nature of eating disorders. Gender Affirming Care Support Services Link The Barnes Center at The Arch hosts holistic gender services that support students who are transgender, those questioning their gender identity and those considering gender transition (medically or surgically). Counseling services are available within individual and group settings. Learn more by visiting the Gender Services webpage. Highlighted services include the following: LGBTQIA+ affirming providers trained to help individuals explore their gender identity through both individual and group counseling services. Trained professionals who can assist with documentation for hormone therapy, surgical procedures, official letters and documentation of name and gender (e.g. passports, driver’s licenses and more). Trained professionals who can help provide information on the legal name change process. Referrals to connect affirming resources on and off campus as needed. Group therapies specializing in exploring and affirming gender identity. Options Education Group Link The Options Education Group is a single session group that focuses on the impact of substance use on physiology, perception and decision-making. Learn more by visiting the Substance Use webpage. Psychiatry Link Learn more by visiting the Psychiatry webpage. Dimensions of Wellness Link Throughout a student’s holistic health and wellness journey, the Barnes Center at The Arch encourages the exploration of the Dimensions of Wellness. While Group and Individual Therapy can be a resource to nurture all Dimensions of Wellness, they are an excellent resource to explore Emotional and Social Wellness while feeling validated in your unique identities. Explore Counseling Resources Link Living With Worry and Anxiety Amidst Global Uncertainty Guide (Available in a variety of translations.) Related Pages Meet the Staff Facilities and Hours Contact Us Barnes Center at The Arch | 150 Sims Drive, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.8000 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy