Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Renovation Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Countway Cinema Explore Award-winning Films Countway is excited to announce a brand new initiative: Countway Cinema, a year-round series of film screenings on a wide range of topics. Following some screenings, attendees are invited to take part in discussions with subject experts from the Harvard and Longwood Medical community. Countway Cinema events are unique opportunities to explore timely and important films with other members of the Countway community. Join us to watch documentaries and movies that may otherwise be difficult to access individually. Registration for all Countway Cinema events is free and open to the public. Due to current safety protocols, Countway Cinema events will be held virtually. When it is safe to gather in person again, we look forward to hosting these events in our newly renovated library with popcorn and other refreshments! Connect With Us If you have a suggestion for a film, or would like to join us to guide a post-screening discussion, we would love to hear from you! We are also always interested in connecting with departments wishing to partner with us or co-host a Countway Cinema event. Please contact us anytime. Upcoming Events To browse more upcoming Author Series events, please visit our calendar page. Past Events The Power of the Patient Story Virtual discussion with Neal Baer (TV writer and producer), Diane Shader Smith (Mallory Smith's mom), Will Battersby (documentary producer), and Michelle LaBonte (historian of medicine and biology) | Recording of The Power of the Patient Story event Tuesday, April 19, 2022 Mission: Joy Film screening and discussion with Reverend Dr. Monica Sanford Tuesday, February 22, 2022 Fauci Film screening and discussion with Dr. Allan Morris Brandt and Dr. Robert C. Colgrove Tuesday, January 25, 2022 Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram