Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Renovation Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Author Series Engage with Celebrated Authors Countway Longwood Author Series events are unique opportunities to connect with celebrated local authors, hear their stories, and ask them your own questions. These are free community events that traditionally gather in the Countway Library building, though they are currently hosted via Zoom for the safety of all participants. Over the last few years, a diverse and award-winning range of authors has joined us to speak about their literary works and writing processes. Each talk is followed by a Q&A opportunity, and the books are most often available to borrow through Countway Library. All Author Series events are hosted by the Countway Library Outreach Team. To browse upcoming Author Series events, please visit our calendar page. Connect With Us We would love to hear from you! If you are an author looking to speak about your new book, a department interested in partnering with us to host an Author Series event, or an individual with an author or topic suggestion, please reach out to us anytime. Past Events & Recordings Little Matches With Maryanne O'Hara, moderated by Michelle LaBonte Tuesday, March 22, 2022 Recording and transcript of the Little Matches event Fugitive Pedagogy With Jarvis Givens & Dr. Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham Thursday, February 3, 2022 Recording and transcript of the Fugitive Pedagogy event Little Pharma With Laura Kolbe Tuesday, January 18, 2022 Recording and transcript of the Little Pharma event Borrowing Life With Shelley Fraser Mickle Tuesday, January 11, 2022 Recording of of the Borrowing Life event Three Perspectives, One Purpose: Why Medicine Needs Memoir With Diane Shader Smith, Maryanne O’Hara, and Dr. David Weill Wednesday, November 10, 2021 Recording of of the Three Perspectives, One Purpose event The Genome Defense With Jorge L. Contreras Tuesday, November 2, 2021 Recording of the Genome Defense event Letter to a Young Female Physician With Dr. Suzanne Koven Wednesday, October 13, 2021 Recording of the Letter to a Young Female Physician event Libertie: A Novel With Kaitlyn Greenidge Tuesday, May 4, 2021 Recording of the Libertie event Time Smart: How to Reclaim Your Time & Live a Happier Life With Ashley Whillans Wednesday, October 21, 2020 Recording of the Time Smart event The Privileged Poor: How Elite Colleges Are Failing Disadvantaged Students With Anthony Abraham Jack Thursday, July 23, 2020 Recording of the Privileged Poor event Getting Wrecked: Women, Incarceration and the Opioid Epidemic By Dr. Kimberly Sue Thursday, January 16, 2020 Dancing with Parkinson's With Dr. Sara Houston Tuesday, October 15, 2019 How the Brain Lost its Mind With Dr. Allan Ropper Monday, October 7, 2019 My City of Dreams With Dr. Lisa Gruenberg Tuesday, September 17, 2019 Elderhood With Louise Aronson Wednesday, September 11, 2019 Salt In My Soul With Mallory Smith Tuesday, August 20, 2019 The Soul of a Patient Collection of stories edited by Susan Pories Thursday, January 17, 2019 Upcoming Events Browse our upcoming virtual and in-person Author Series events! View Calendar Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram