Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Renovation Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Countway Library Cultivating and advancing education, research, scholarship, and professional growth in the health and biomedical sciences. Journals, Books, & More COVID-19 Resources Recent research and information HOLLIS The Harvard Library catalog PubMed Biomedical and life sciences research BrowZine Browse journals and save your favorites Web of Science Research platform for academic literature /sites/default/files/images/Bigelow-vials.jpg Countway Library Upcoming Classes & Events View Calendar Our Services Request an article, suggest a purchase, connect with a librarian, and more. Services Ask Countway Submit a question directly to the library. Collections Spotlight Humanities in Medicine A collection dedicated to supporting the HMS Arts and Humanities Initiative and its mission. Anti-Racism & Health A selection of resources to encourage learning and acting to dismantle racism. Graphic Medicine This collection highlights a recent and growing field, graphic medicine, that explores health topics through comics. Renovation Shaping a New Library Library Redefined Countway 1st & 2nd Floor Renovations Country is excited to share that we have completed a renovation to update the library building to better serve the Longwood community. Learn More About the Renovation Now Available! Virtual Tour Explore Countway Library's Newly Renovated Spaces Take a tour and explore Countway Library's new study spaces through a 3D interactive model. See Things for Yourself News Week 113: The Week in Pictures May 27, 2022 A picture is worth a thousand words... Week 112: May Updates and Reminders May 19, 2022 It was nice to see everyone in the garden for our end of the semester ice cream social. Week 111: Graduation Week Activities and BML Update May 13, 2022 May 23rd starts a very special week for Harvard graduates. Several graduation ceremonies will be… Ready to visit the library? Who Can Use Countway? Stay up-to-date with the library! Receive our Monthly Newsletter 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram