Academic and Student Affairs Mission Statement and Values Our Team Org Chart Think and Do The Extraordinary Support Student Success Counseling Center The Student Health Center will undergo some important renovations from May 23rd - May 31 and the building will be closed to all traffic. The Counseling Center will remain open and fully functioning in a telehealth capacity during this time. To reach a clinician during office hours or to set up an appointment, call 919-515-2423. If you are experiencing a mental health emergency after hours, call 919-515-2423 and press #2 to be connected with the on-call counselor. MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content Getting Started About Us About the Counseling Center Our Staff Hours and Locations Assessment & Data Statistics Costs and Insurance Donate to the Counseling Center Our Services Services at the NC State Counseling Center Academic Counseling Addictive Behavior Counseling Career Counseling Case Management and Off-Campus Referrals Insurance Information Steps for Scheduling with an Off-Campus Provider Questions to Ask Potential Off-Campus Providers Group Counseling Psychiatric Services Sexual Assault & Interpersonal Violence Services for Veterans CALS Counseling Services Program Resources Resources Forms Share a Student Concern Off-Campus Referral Database RINTS MiResource Self Help Resources Campus Resources Online Screenings Tuffy Fund For Parents For Faculty/Staff Workshops and Programs Workshops and Programs Drop-In Spaces Stop the Stigma Mental Health Ambassador Program Graduate Training Graduate Training Counseling Practicum & Internship Social Work Internship Graduate Assistantships Doctoral Psychology Internship Post-Master’s Counseling/Social Work Fellowship Getting Started If you are experiencing a mental health emergency between 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. please call 919.515.2423. For after-hours mental health emergencies, call 919.515.2423 and select option #2 to speak with an on-call counselor. In the case of a life-threatening emergency, call 911. The Counseling Center is continuing to operate primarily in a telehealth capacity for Spring 2022. Review the following telehealth updates before initiating services: Counseling Center and COVID-19 Updates | Counseling Center Please call the Counseling Center at 919.515.2423 before beginning paperwork if you fall into any of the following categories (expand for categories): Show More You are not physically in the state of North Carolina. State licensing laws do not allow Counseling Center clinician to offer therapy services across state lines. However, the Counseling Center is able to offer a one-time consultation with a clinician to assist you in finding mental health services in the state you are currently in. You are under 18 years old. You have previously received services at the Counseling Center. You are wanting to meet with an Academic Counselor for withdrawal processes and/or dropping a course/s. It is after 3 p.m. and triage hours are over for the day. You are not enrolled in classes for the current semester. You have an urgent need. You are seeking general information about the Counseling Center. If you are NEW to the Counseling Center please follow the steps outlined below: Complete paperwork Click the this link go.ncsu.edu/cou-intake Please be aware that the Counseling Center’s forms are not optimized for mobile phones. It is recommended that you use a personal computer or laptop. Select preferred option for triage paperwork Select your preferred option: “1a – Triage Paperwork to be seen today” to initiate all of your paperwork online and that you would like to be seen as soon as possible. “1b – Triage Paperwork to schedule an appointment” to initiate all of your paperwork online then be given an option to select an appointment time for your triage appointment within the next 5 business days. If no appointments are available, you will have the opportunity to still select to be seen today. Try to complete all six forms within the hour you begin. The paperwork usually takes about 15 minutes to complete. If you start the paperwork and are unable to finish it or need any assistance with completing the paperwork, please contact us immediately. Triage: See triage today or schedule a triage appointment After the forms are complete, you can choose to join the Counseling Center’s virtual waiting room to be seen by the next available triage clinician or to schedule a virtual triage appointment to be seen at another time. If interested in being seen by the next available triage clinician, please check your email for the Zoom link to the virtual waiting room. If there are no appointments available to schedule, please join the Zoom link to the virtual waiting room once you have completed the paperwork. If you have scheduled an appointment, you can use the same link from the email to join your appointment at your scheduled time and your clinician will send you the link again the day of your appointment. Preparing for your triage appointment During your meeting, you and the triage clinician will discuss your concerns and create a plan to address your current needs following the Counseling Center’s Stepped Care Model. Please be sure you are in a private location for this meeting. It usually takes anywhere between 20 minutes and an hour. Please note: The link to the paperwork is turned off at 4 p.m. and you will not be able to access the forms until it is turned back on at 8 a.m. the next business day (Monday to Friday). If you do not complete your paperwork the same day you started it, you will be contacted by email the next business day with instructions on the remaining forms you still need to complete. In some cases, a clinician may reach out to you the same day. Be aware that there are embedded clinicians in Athletics, Advanced Analytics and the Veterinary School. If you are a student in these programs you may choose to reach out directly to the embedded clinician with your program. Making a follow-up appointment If you’ve been seen by your counselor recently and need to schedule a follow-up appointment, please call us at 919.515.2423. Rescheduling or canceling your appointment To reschedule an appointment, please call us at 919.515.2423. You may cancel an appointment by completing the appointment cancellation online form, but you’ll need to call during office hours to reschedule. Please note you must cancel at least 24 hours in advance to avoid a $25 “no-show/late cancellation” charge. If you’re having a mental health emergency If you or someone you know needs immediate help, a counselor is always available. Emergency services can be accessed 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. If you’re experiencing a mental health crisis and need immediate help, you don’t need an appointment to see us. For emergencies that are within regular business hours (Monday through Friday from 8:00 am to 5:00 pm) Please call us at 919.515.2423. We will work you in during regular business hours. For after regular business hours Please contact our on-call counselor by calling 919.515.2423 and select option 2. The following crisis resources can be utilized by both NC State students and non-students: Emergency Medical Services – 911, or visit the nearest hospital emergency room National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (24/7) – 1-800-273-TALK (8255) or https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/chat/ for online chat Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Treatment Referral Helpline (Monday through Friday, 8am to 8pm ET) – 1-877-SAMHSA (726-4727) National Sexual Assault Hotline (24/7) – 1-800-656-HOPE (4673) National Domestic Violence Hotline (24/7) – 1-800-799 SAFE (7233) or 1-800-787 3224 (TTY) National Eating Disorders Association Helpline (Monday through Thursday, 9am to 9pm EST; Friday, 9am to 5pm ET; excluding holidays)- 1-800-931-2237 IMAlive – https://www.imalive.org/ for online chat Additional local resources can be accessed through the following link: Wake County Crisis & Assessment Local Resources The above resources are not affiliated with, nor endorsed by the NC State Counseling Center. Academic “Walk-In” Services Academic walk-in services are available to assist students with academic issues such as: Retroactive withdrawal (dropping all classes from a previous semester) Late course drop or drop below full-time (dropping one or more but not all classes) For Fall 2021 academic walk-in hours are virtual and during the following times: Monday: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. Wednesday: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. Students can call 919.515.2423 to initiate academic services. You’re able to complete retroactive withdrawal paperwork at the Counseling Center at any time (even if it’s not during academic walk-in hours), but your academic request may take longer to process. You may also fax your retroactive withdrawal request using the forms on our website. Access hours to initiate services For Summer 2022, Triage services are virtual and during the following times: Monday: 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Tuesday: 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Wednesday: 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Thursday: 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Friday: 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Academic Walk-In Hours For Summer 2022, academic walk-in hours are virtual and during the following times: Monday: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. Wednesday: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. Call the Counseling Center at 919.515.2423 to initiate academic services. Click Here to Cancel Your Appointment Counseling Center 2nd Floor, Student Health Center 2815 Cates Avenue at Dan Allen Drive Raleigh, NC 27695-7312 919.515.2423 Facebook Twitter Instagram About the Counseling Center Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback Site Index About Academic and Student Affairs About Services and Resources Departments Giving Search for: © 2022 Counseling Center | Log in