Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Renovation Overview Countway Library's 2019-2021 Renovation The renovation transformation allows Countway Library to engage and align users to its mission of service, education, and research by capitalizing on the strengths of its space, staff and collections. It is Countway's responsibility to share its rich resources with Harvard’s Medical and Dental Schools, and the T.H. Chan School of Public Health, as well as the entire Longwood Medical area. Countway now has quiet spaces for individual study, active spaces for programming and special events, and gathering spaces for collaboration and socialization. For example, the Countway Connection Café, Coop, Community Garden, and open area seating provide opportunities for our users to reconnect with one another. Countway is a social connector, and is in the position to rebuild these social bonds through its shared spaces and programming. The library evidently shows its positive impact on the community as it continues to average over 800 turnstile swipes per day. Libraries are no longer just brick and mortar buildings to house collections. Medical libraries can and do play an important role in improving the health and well-being of their community on their campuses. As part of the evolution of Countway Library, we have a renewed focus on community well-being as well as serving as a resource for research and learning. There are many activities the newly-renovated Countway Library has to offer our students, faculty and staff. Countway now has dedicated spaces, resources and community-building programming. We welcome the entire campus community to join us in our new spaces as we expand library programming through the lens of social connection. Countway Renovation Countway Reimagined Introducing the newly renovated Countway With new spaces for learning, research, collaboration, and social connection, the renovated Countway Library brings the Longwood community together. Click through to see some of the library's brand new features. Countway Renovation 695 Huntington Avenue Part of the community Countway now has a brand new entrance on Huntington Avenue! The renovation created new seating areas and more accessible routes to and from the library, including a bridge to the entrance and an ADA accessible ramp leading to the rest of campus. Countway Renovation Countway Connection Café Now open! The Countway Connection Café inside the Huntington Avenue atrium serves Illy coffee drinks as well as grab-and-go lunch items and snacks. The café is staffed from 9am-4pm Monday-Friday, and a self-service checkout system is available for after-hours purchases. Countway Renovation Harvard Coop Now open! The new Harvard Coop location inside the Huntington Avenue atrium offers merchandise from all three Longwood Campus schools: HMS, HSDM, and Harvard Chan. The Coop is open 10am-5pm Monday-Friday. Countway Renovation Russell Reading Room Quiet study space The new Russell Reading Room has plentiful seating for dedicated quiet study space, as well as study rooms available for individual and group studying. Countway Renovation Active Study Floor Collaborative spaces The first floor of Countway is now available for collaborative activities including group studying, art marking, and pet therapy! Countway Renovation Makerspace & Digital Learning Fostering Innovation This innovative and collaborative space on the first floor houses an Anatomage Table as well as a 3D Printer and workspace! Consultations are available to help orient new users to the machines. Learn more about the makerspace Countway Renovation Reservable Classrooms Special event space Two brand new classroom spaces are available for workshops or events. These rooms can also be combined into one for larger programs. Floor-to-ceiling windows offer great lighting and views of the Community Garden. Learn more about reservable classrooms Countway Renovation New Book Lockers Grab & go Countway's new book locker system allows you to easily access your reserved materials onsite. The book lockers are located one floor below the lobby and accessible via stairs and an elevator. Learn more about book lockers Countway Renovation Self Checkout Also available as an app! There are now two self checkout stations at Countway: one on L1 and one on the 2nd floor in the Russell Reading Room. Patrons also have the option of using a mobile app to check out books while at the library! You can find it by searching "Harvard Library Checkout" in your app store. Learn more about self checkout FAQ Is the museum closed? The Museum is temporarily closed until Spring 2022. Some museum collections can be explored online. Does Countway have a Mothers' Room? Yes, Countway has a newly renovated Mothers' Room (room 202), which operates on a first-come, first-served schedule. Does Countway have a Meditation Room? Yes, Countway's newly renovated Meditation Room is located inside the Russell Reading Room on the second floor. Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram