Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Renovation Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Our Mission Garden Ground Rules Kindness Rocks Project Get Involved Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Community Garden The garden is currently open and publicly accessible daily from sunrise until sunset! If you are interested in holding an event in the garden with more than 20 people, please read our Garden Ground Rules thoroughly and then submit an Event Request at least two weeks prior to the event. Want to help us grow throughout the year? Click here to explore ways to get involved! Once an unused plain brick space, the Countway Community Garden is home to the quiet yet busy movement of amateur gardeners. For the past ten years, our volunteer gardeners have donated their time and energy to nurture this haven. They get their hands dirty, relax, and learn from each other about how to grow greenery in the city.  Our garden, like nature, is in a continuous state of evolution. We’d like to share this space with our community members as it continues to flourish as a little oasis right here on campus. There are lots of ways to get involved with the Countway Community Garden. We’ve typically held two major events each growing season and we’re always looking for helping hands to tend and cultivate beds, plant seeds and assist with gardening chores. Even if you’re not inclined to get your hands in the dirt, we also need help with logistics and planning. We welcome new and experienced gardeners. And even if you don’t have the time to join us, we invite you to celebrate the renewal of growth around you wherever you may find it. Contact us anytime. Classes & Events Community Garden Our Mission Garden Ground Rules Kindness Rocks Project Get Involved 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram