Skip to main content On May 30th & 31st Countway Library will be closed in Observance of Memorial Day Covid-19 safety protocols remain in effect. Regular hours have resumed for the Spring semester. Close Mobile Main Navigation About Renovation Services Center for the History of Medicine Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Mobile Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Menu Utility Navigation Search the Countway Website Login to HOLLIS Search Main navigation About Who Can Use Countway? Hours & Location Staff Directory Policies Library Newsletter News Director's Corner Café & Coop Touring Countway Renovation Renovation Overview Shaping a New Library Blog Time-lapse Videos Services Find Materials Research & Instruction Team Society Librarians Countway Spaces Publishing & Data Services Harvard Chan School Liaisons Collections Center for the History of Medicine Collections & Research Access Center Services Warren Anatomical Museum Support Our Activities About the Center Center Policies Online Exhibits Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs Ask Countway Therapy Dogs Countway Cuddles Feeling stressed? Come relax with trained therapy dogs from Tufts Paws for People and a nonprofit called Dog B.O.N.E.S.. Both organizations help hospitals, nursing homes, and universities offer dog therapy programs. As a way to combat burnout, stress, and anxiety, the library provides Countway Cuddles. During this program, community members can pet and play with therapy dogs. Many colleges offer these programs due to the positive mental health benefits. Therapy dog programs have shown to be especially helpful for medical students. These animals offer companionship and a calming presence to students. Studies have shown therapy dogs help lower blood pressure and relieve stress. Read more about the benefits in De-Stressing with Therapy Dogs. Community members are welcome to come relax and de-stress while playing with the dogs. Countway Cuddles takes place on the 1st floor of the library, near the Shattuck Street entrance. Sometimes the dogs need to take a break or cancel, so be sure to check the calendar often. Please contact the Countway Outreach Team with any questions! Upcoming Countway Cuddles Events Classes & Events Author Series Library Newsletter Calendar Community Garden Countway Cinema Short Story Dispenser Therapy Dogs 10 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2136 Footer Privacy Policy Archived Alerts © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook twitter instagram