Skip to Content Search Search Search﻿﻿﻿ ﻿ Cornell University Registrar﻿ Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, B07 Day Hall. Ithaca, NY 14853 ‌Get Directions ‌ univreg@cornell.edu ‌ (607) 255-4232 ‌‌ (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University Courses of Study 2021-2022 Select a Courses of Study Courses of Study 2021-2022 Courses of Study through eCornell 2021-2022 Courses of Study 2020-2021 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2019-2020 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2018-2019 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2017-2018 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2016-2017 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2015-2016 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2014-2015 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2013-2014 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2012-2013 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2011-2012 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Jun 01, 2022 HELP Courses of Study 2021-2022 University Graduation Requirements Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Physical Education Swim Test The University has two requirements for graduation that must be fulfilled by all undergraduate students: the swim test, and physical education courses. A student’s college determines degree requirements such as residency, number of credits, distribution of credits, and grade averages. It is the student’s responsibility to be aware of the specific major, degree, distribution, college, and graduation requirements for completing his or her chosen program of study. See the individual requirements listed by each college or school or contact the college registrar’s office for more information. For additional information about fulfilling University Graduation Requirements, see the Physical Education website. *Notice regarding PE Swim Test Requirement for Academic Year 2021-2022: In light of the extraordinary circumstances surrounding the pandemic and the Ithaca campus: Seniors planning to graduate in December 2021 or May 2022 will have their swim test requirement waived; if the swim test requirement for this specific portion of the student body has not already been completed, it will not be required. Further, students entering their first year in either the Fall 2021 or Spring 2022 term will not have to pay the swim-test fee to take their test at a later date. Physical Education All incoming freshmen are required to take two credits (two courses) of Physical Education, one credit each semester of the first year on campus. Exemptions may be made for medical reasons, special circumstances, or by virtue of advanced standing on admission. Transfer students are not held to the Physical Education requirement. Credit in Physical Education may be earned by participating in courses offered by the Department of Athletics and Physical Education , by being a registered participant on an intercollegiate athletic team, or performing in the marching band. To request a postponement or waiver of the Physical Education requirement, students should see the director or associate director of Physical Education. Students with medical concerns should contact the Office of Student Disability Services. Questionable or unusual cases may be resolved by petition to the Faculty Advisory Committee on Athletics and Physical Education. Swim Test The Faculty Advisory Committee on Athletics and Physical Education has established a basic swimming and water safety competency requirement for all entering first-year undergraduate students. Transfer students are not held to this requirement. Normally, the test is given at the Helen Newman Hall and Teagle Hall pools as part of their orientation process. The test consists of a feet-first entry into the deep end of the pool and a continuous 75-yard swim using any stroke or strokes of the student’s choice. Any student who cannot pass the swim test is required to register for PE 1100 - Beginning Swimming as his or her physical education course before electives can be chosen. Any student that does not complete their swim test during their freshman year will have to pay a $100 test fee. A swim test hold will be placed on the student’s record until he or she has passed the swim test or fulfilled the requirement by satisfactorily completing two beginning swim classes (based on attendance requirements) and having the recommendation of the instructor. Students unable to meet the swim requirement because of medical reasons should contact the Office of Student Disability Services. Students who have religious or other reasons must petition the Faculty Advisory Committee on Athletics and Physical Education for a waiver of the requirement. When a waiver is granted by the Faculty Committee on Physical Education, an alternate requirement is imposed. The alternate requirement substitutes the following courses: PE 1400 - Body-Mind or PE 1626 - Wilderness First Responder for the original swimming requirement. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Global Search Courses of Study Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Departments & Fields of Study College Items College Content Entire Courses of Study Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Courses of Study Home Course Descriptions Colleges, Schools, and Units Agriculture and Life Sciences Architecture, Art and Planning Arts and Sciences Athletics and Physical Education Biological Sciences Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Brooks School of Public Policy Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Cornell Tech Division of Nutritional Sciences eCornell Engineering Graduate School Human Ecology Industrial and Labor Relations Law School Officer Education SC Johnson College of Business - Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management - Hotel Administration - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Veterinary Medicine My Favorites All courses of study © 2022 Cornell University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).