Skip to Content Search Search Search﻿﻿﻿ ﻿ Cornell University Registrar﻿ Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, B07 Day Hall. Ithaca, NY 14853 ‌Get Directions ‌ univreg@cornell.edu ‌ (607) 255-4232 ‌‌ (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University Courses of Study 2021-2022 Select a Courses of Study Courses of Study 2021-2022 Courses of Study through eCornell 2021-2022 Courses of Study 2020-2021 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2019-2020 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2018-2019 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2017-2018 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2016-2017 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2015-2016 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2014-2015 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2013-2014 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2012-2013 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2011-2012 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Jun 01, 2022 HELP Courses of Study 2021-2022 Use of Animals for Courses Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Vertebrate animals serve as an invaluable aid in instruction. It is recognized, however, that some students have ethical objections to the use of vertebrate animals in this manner. Courses that use vertebrate animals are identified as such in the course descriptions. Students who have concerns about the use of animals in these courses should consult the course instructor for more information about the precise ways in which the animals are used. A set of university guidelines on the use of vertebrate animals in teaching for faculty and students is printed below and is available from departments in which the courses are offered. The use of live vertebrates in instruction is reviewed and approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Students enrolled in courses that require working with live vertebrate animals may need to enroll in Cornell’s Animal Users Health and Safety Program (AUHSP) (www.oria.cornell.edu/AUHSP) or may be required to receive instruction in health and safety aspects of working with animals, before they can work with animals or enter an animal facility. Background: On December 8, 1987, the Cornell University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee approved a series of guidelines recommended to them by the University Animal Welfare Committee. These guidelines were prepared by a subcommittee of faculty members after they had the opportunity to evaluate the use of animals in undergraduate teaching (and student concerns for the same) from a representative sample of instructors. Guidelines For demonstrating certain principles and procedures, the use of animals in teaching is recognized as an invaluable, often essential, pedagogical device. For courses in which vertebrate animals are to be used in dissection, surgery, or in other experimental procedures, the course description that appears in Courses of Study should alert students to this fact. A detailed description of the intended use of vertebrate animals should be available to students upon request to the instructor of each course. Faculty members are encouraged to explain their reasons and need for using vertebrate animals and should indicate to students the availability of the procedures described in item 8 below. Students are encouraged to discuss their concerns about the instructional use of vertebrate animals with the instructor of the course. When consistent with pedagogical objectives, faculty members are encouraged to consider adopting alternative methods and procedures that do not involve the use of live animals. When students object on ethical or other valid grounds to participating in an exercise using vertebrate animals, instructors are encouraged to provide alternative means when consistent with pedagogical objectives for learning the same material. A student who is reluctant to voice his or her concerns about animal use in a particular course or who thinks these concerns have not received proper attention may seek assistance from the Chair of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee at (607) 255-3749 or by e-mail at iacuc-mailbox@cornell.edu. Confidential reports may be made to secure.ethicspoint.com/domain/en/report_custom.asp?clientid=6357. Faculty members should instruct students in the responsible use of animals. For more information, see the University Policy on the Care and Use of Animals in Teaching and Research. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Global Search Courses of Study Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Departments & Fields of Study College Items College Content Entire Courses of Study Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Courses of Study Home Course Descriptions Colleges, Schools, and Units Agriculture and Life Sciences Architecture, Art and Planning Arts and Sciences Athletics and Physical Education Biological Sciences Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Brooks School of Public Policy Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Cornell Tech Division of Nutritional Sciences eCornell Engineering Graduate School Human Ecology Industrial and Labor Relations Law School Officer Education SC Johnson College of Business - Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management - Hotel Administration - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Veterinary Medicine My Favorites All courses of study © 2022 Cornell University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).