Skip to Content Search Search Search﻿﻿﻿ ﻿ Cornell University Registrar﻿ Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, B07 Day Hall. Ithaca, NY 14853 ‌Get Directions ‌ univreg@cornell.edu ‌ (607) 255-4232 ‌‌ (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University Courses of Study 2021-2022 Select a Courses of Study Courses of Study 2021-2022 Courses of Study through eCornell 2021-2022 Courses of Study 2020-2021 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2019-2020 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2018-2019 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2017-2018 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2016-2017 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2015-2016 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2014-2015 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2013-2014 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2012-2013 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2011-2012 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Jun 01, 2022 HELP Courses of Study 2021-2022 Facilities Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) There are eight undergraduate units and four graduate and professional units in Ithaca, two medical graduate and professional units in New York City, and one in Doha, Qatar. The Cornell Tech campus in New York City is the latest addition. Below are some highlights of the facilities available during normal operations. Be advised that the COVID-19 pandemic may limit some operations through the 2020-2021 academic year. College of Architecture, Art & Planning Ithaca AAP’s physical footprint in Ithaca includes: The Foundry, Milstein Hall, Rand Hall, Sibley Hall, and Tjaden Hall, all part of Cornell University’s historic Arts Quad. The Miller-Heller House, located off-campus in Collegetown, is also one of the college’s facilities. Learn more about the Architecture Studio Spaces and the Art Studios and Classrooms. AAP NYC AAP NYC has studio space located at 26 Broadway. The 11,114-square-foot studio encompasses the entire 20th floor of 26 Broadway and is customized to meet a full range of programming needs for all three departments of AAP with gallery space, a multi-use room for lectures and public events, and ample studio and classroom areas for up to 50 students. With moveable wall panels, the space is easily adaptable for various uses during and between semesters. Its natural lighting and 360-degree views, including the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island, enhance the experience of the city as an extension of the classroom. Learn more about the resources at AAP NYC. Cornell in Rome The Cornell in Rome program is based in Palazzo Santacroce. Ample studio space, a library, a materials shop, and tech support are all housed in a spectacular 17th-century villa. On-site program staff with decades of experience ensure an unparalleled degree of personal care and attention to students’ needs. College of Arts & Sciences The 26 structures that comprise the College of Arts & Sciences’ physical space include the first buildings on the Cornell campus and now the newest as well. From the classic lines of Morrill Hall to the futuristic design of the Physical Sciences Building, the College’s structures reflect the uncommon breadth and diversity of our community. Klarman Hall, a magnificent new building for the humanities, now provides a gateway to the Arts Quad from East Avenue and recognizes the vitality and importance of the humanities at Cornell. It creates a space that transforms the experience of the Arts Quad, the emotional heart of the campus, by promoting student connections with the arts & humanities. College of Agriculture & Life Sciences The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (Cornell CALS) maintains many unique and outstanding facilities, including two teaching wineries, a biofuels research laboratory, a student run organic farm, a working orchard, maple research forests and world-class collections of plants, insects and vertebrates. CALS students have easy access to Mann Library, home to an impressive collection of agricultural and biological sciences volumes and other materials. The iconic Ag Quad is home to several CALS buildings—including the main administrative building, Roberts Hall, which houses the Dean’s Office, Undergraduate Admissions, and Student Services. The Quad is located on land that was once part of the Ezra Cornell family farm, so it is fitting that it is nestled amongst the classrooms, offices, and labs are greenhouses, gardens, and research facilities. Newly renovated campus facilities include Fernow Hall, Stocking Hall, and Warren Hall. Cornell CALS conducts research, teaching and extension programs in approximately 500 facilities statewide. The college’s New York State Agricultural Experiment Station in Geneva, known as Cornell AgriTech, is a 900-acre campus at the northern tip of Seneca Lake dedicated to all aspects of applied agricultural research. Additional CALS’ research and extension properties are located throughout New York, including Arnot Teaching and Research Forest, the Cornell Lake Erie Research and Extension Laboratory, Willsboro Research Farm, and the Long Island Horticultural Research and Extension Center. College of Engineering The richness of Cornell’s scientific community is enhanced by the presence of interdisciplinary centers, institutes, laboratories, and programs in which members come together from across the campus to collaborate on research, teaching, and outreach. These collaborative partnerships allow faculty members and their students to share facilities, equipment, ideas, and inspiration. The campus is home to more than 100 other interdisciplinary centers, institutes, laboratories, and programs that support faculty research and enhance graduate and undergraduate education. The research units listed here are of particular interest to the engineering community. Hotel Administration Statler Hall. Statler Hall has been the home to the School of Hotel Administration since 1950 and is uniquely designed to meet the traditional and experiential learning needs of faculty and students. The building includes; the 700 seat Alice Statler Auditorium, state-of-the-art classrooms, 100 seat Binenkorb computer center which houses the Chartres Lodging capital markets trading room, food and beverage management labs, and our Marriott Student Learning Center which houses our Nestle hospitality library. Additionally, Statler Hall is home to the Baker Program in Real Estate, the Center for Real Estate Finance, the Center for Hospitality Research, and the Leland C. and Mary M. Pillsbury Institute of Hospitality Entrepreneurship. The School of Hotel Administration’s Nestlé Library. The Nestlé Library resides within the Marriott Student Learning Center, which opened in August, 2012. As one of the finest libraries in the hospitality management field, the Nestlé Library is noted for its excellent collection, knowledgeable staff and service to alumni, industry practitioners, other hospitality schools and trade associations, as well as the students and faculty of the School of Hotel Administration. The library’s collection contains approximately 37,000 books and more than 500 journal, magazine, newsletter, and newspaper subscriptions. Materials on lodging, foodservice, travel and tourism, real estate, and general hospitality business topics comprise the core of the collection. Statler Hotel and J. Willard Marriott Executive Education Center. The Statler Hotel is a 153 room Four Diamond Hotel connected to Statler Hall. The hotel was designed to provide a distinctive lodging and executive education experience in the center of the Cornell campus, while simultaneously providing students of the School of Hotel Administration with real world industry and management experiences. During the academic year over 200 students work in front line and supervisory positions under the guidance of seasoned hospitality professionals. Learn more about the School of Hotel Administration’s facilities. College of Human Ecology The college is housed in Human Ecology Building (HEB), Martha Van Rensselaer (MVR), Savage, and Kinzelberg Halls; as well as the Biotechnology Building and Weill Hall. The buildings include administrative and faculty offices, classrooms, auditoriums, galleries, and lecture halls; wet chemistry and biochemistry laboratories; design studios and computer-aided design laboratories; woodworking shops; human factors and infant research facilities; and classrooms for distance learning. Also included are learning resource centers for career planning, a historical costume collection, a human metabolic research unit, an animal research facility, cold rooms, and a constant temperature and humidity laboratory. Specialized equipment for teaching and research includes biochemical and chemical instruments for spectroscopy, chromatography, radioisotope analysis, electrophoresis, microscopy, and ultracentrifugation; physical testing equipment; and cameras, videotape, and sound recording equipment. Learn more about the Human Ecology facilities. School of Industrial & Labor Relations The ILR School at Ithaca resides in the Ives Hall complex near the west-end of Tower Road. The complex is home to the Catherwood Library and Kheel Center – library and physical archive for labor history. Other buildings include a fully-equipped conference center in King-Shaw Hall, faculty and staff offices, classrooms, auditoriums, conference and study rooms and lounges in Ives Hall West and Ives Hall East, as well as faculty offices and meeting spaces in the Faculty Wing. Ives is also home to ILR’s offices for student services, admissions, and graduate studies. There are also multi-media studios for video recording and production and distance-learning productions. The ILR School has offices in Buffalo which provide space and resources to those working in the Buffalo CoLab and other ILR outreach and extension projects. These resources include office and meeting spaces and moderate conference facilities. ILR in NYC provides offices and resources for a number of institutes, extension programs, and the MPS NYC degree program. The ILR Conference Center provides flexible meeting space for conferences, seminars, workshops, training, meetings, classroom instruction, and reception space at a reasonable price. All of these resources are in the heart of New York City on the 12th floor of 570 Lexington Avenue. School of Continuing Education & Summer Session Most on-campus Summer and Winter Session classes, CAU summer programs, and professional study programs are held in Cornell’s state-of-the-art classrooms and facilities. The School’s Cornell in Washington program is housed in the Cornell University Wolpe Center, centrally located in the Dupont Circle neighborhood at 2148 O Street, NW, in Washington, DC. Students, faculty in residence, and academic tutors reside in the twenty-seven apartments on the upper three floors of the building. The program’s classrooms, administrative offices, computer lab, and social spaces are located on the first floor. Cornell Tech Cornell Tech moved to its permanent, sustainable 12-acre campus on Roosevelt Island, in July 2017. When fully completed, the campus will include 2 million square feet of state-of-the-art buildings, over 2 acres of open space, and will be home to more than 2,000 graduate students and nearly 280 faculty and staff. Graduate School The Graduate School is a community of over 5300 graduate and professional students enrolled in nearly 100 fields of study with programs located on the Ithaca campus and at Cornell Tech in New York City. We are organized into fields of study that are independent of traditional college and department divisions. As such the facilities available are the same that are available within the colleges. Law School When the Law School opened in 1887, the school and its library were located on the 4th floor of Morrill Hall, one of the original University buildings, and law was an undergraduate program. The Law Library collection included approximately 4,000 volumes. The Law School and Law Library outgrew Morrill Hall after five years and moved to Boardman Hall in 1892. The Law Library has grown to 22,000 volumes. In 1932, the Law School and Law Library relocated to Myron Taylor Hall. Today, the Law School and Law Library are housed in Myron Taylor Hall and the Jane Foster addition. The Law Library holds more than 700,000 volumes and volume equivalents. The Charles Evans Hughes Law Residence Center (commonly known as Hughes Hall) provides student and career services support. SC Johnson College of Business From Breazzano, Sage, Statler and Warren halls on the Cornell University campus in Ithaca, NY to the bustling streets and the Cornell Tech campus in New York City, and from our finance MBA program in China to classrooms across the Americas, the SC Johnson College is transcending geographic — and figurative — boundaries. And through online executive education, lifelong learners can opt to complete certificate programs from anywhere in the world. College of Veterinary Medicine One of only 30 veterinary colleges and schools in the United States, the College of Veterinary Medicine is located on the Cornell campus in Ithaca, New York. In the heart of the Finger Lakes region, an area of tremendous natural beauty, Ithaca provides a balanced atmosphere of city and country. The College’s central campus has seven main buildings, all part of the State University of New York (SUNY) system, on 15 acres with a total of 1.2 million square feet of space. Learn more about the College of Veterinary Medicine’s facilities. Cornell University Library Cornell University Library stands at the center of intellectual life on campus. Expert librarians are available in person—and online 24/7—to help navigate our world-class collections and assist with papers, exam prep, and long-term projects. We’re a home away from home, with warm, inviting spaces for solo study and high-tech, flexible spaces for group work. Students and faculty agree: The Library is an indispensable partner in study, teaching, and research. Explore all of the libraries. Student Unions and Dining Facilities Want to plunge into campus activities, hang out, or grab a cup of coffee? Robert Purcell Community Center, Appel Commons, Willard Straight Hall, and Noyes Community Recreation Center are hubs of activity around campus, especially for students living in Cornell housing. These centers are great places to meet people, get a bite to eat, experience Cornell’s thriving social scene, find a place to study, or work out in a fitness center. At the heart of the first-year experience is the Carol Tatkon Center - an intellectual, cultural, and drop-in center on North Campus. The Tat offers programs and services to ease the transition to Cornell, encourage student-faculty interaction, and support and inspire students. Willard Straight Hall Student Union, located in the heart of Central Campus, is considered to be the central spoke of Cornell’s wide-reaching campus activities. One of the first college unions in the country, the Straight supports the events and functions of the many units within the Office of the Dean of Students, including student activities, student support, and fraternity and sorority affairs. The Straight also contains the Cornell Cinema, two dining rooms and a café, a ticket office for campus events, an art gallery, a ceramics studio, a browsing library, and a computer lab. Hasbrouck Community Center is a gathering spot and informational resource for our graduate and professional student residents, offering: full-time staff support programs and events for both adults and children, including regular pot luck dinners residential service centers, where you can check your mail, ask questions, and get information shared community spaces, where residents gather to study or socialize support and resources for international residents, including English as a Second Language (ESL) classes twice a week orientation programs to help new residents learn about Cornell, Ithaca, and life in the United States the weekly “Panda Bears” gathering for parents and their young children Big Red Barn Graduate and Professional Student Center The Big Red Barn, an old carriage house turned student center, is located in the heart of campus and surrounded by lawns and gardens. A central place for eating and relaxing, the Big Red Barn hosts more than 200 events per year, including the ever popular T.G.I.F. (Tell Grads It’s Friday), Trivia Night, and Annual Year-End BBQ. The Big Red Barn houses a café with a delicious breakfast and lunch menu open to the whole Cornell community for breakfast and lunch, Monday through Friday. Relax outdoors at our picnic tables, or sit inside by the fireplace in our comfortable lounge furniture Dining Everything you need to know about where to eat on campus. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Global Search Courses of Study Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Departments & Fields of Study College Items College Content Entire Courses of Study Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Courses of Study Home Course Descriptions Colleges, Schools, and Units Agriculture and Life Sciences Architecture, Art and Planning Arts and Sciences Athletics and Physical Education Biological Sciences Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Brooks School of Public Policy Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Cornell Tech Division of Nutritional Sciences eCornell Engineering Graduate School Human Ecology Industrial and Labor Relations Law School Officer Education SC Johnson College of Business - Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management - Hotel Administration - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Veterinary Medicine My Favorites All courses of study © 2022 Cornell University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).