Skip to Content Search Search Search﻿﻿﻿ ﻿ Cornell University Registrar﻿ Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, B07 Day Hall. Ithaca, NY 14853 ‌Get Directions ‌ univreg@cornell.edu ‌ (607) 255-4232 ‌‌ (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University Courses of Study 2021-2022 Select a Courses of Study Courses of Study 2021-2022 Courses of Study through eCornell 2021-2022 Courses of Study 2020-2021 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2019-2020 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2018-2019 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2017-2018 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2016-2017 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2015-2016 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2014-2015 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2013-2014 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2012-2013 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2011-2012 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Jun 01, 2022 HELP Courses of Study 2021-2022 Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Computing and the Internet are rapidly changing how people work, learn, play and interact, yet our understanding of these changes is often quite limited. Cornell is at the forefront of education and research in the academic disciplines underlying this emerging new age of information: Computer Science, Information Science and Statistics. These disciplines, which span the university, are brought together in the Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science (Cornell Bowers CIS). At the undergraduate level, Cornell Bowers CIS offers majors through the colleges of Arts and Sciences, Agriculture and Life Sciences and Engineering, as well as offering minors through all seven undergraduate schools and colleges. Students pursue these degrees through one of the schools or colleges that offer these programs (as detailed below). All three of these disciplines offer a mix of theoretical and practical education which prepares students for a broad range of career paths, from large companies, to entrepreneurial ventures, to graduate study, and from the private sector to public service. The study of Computer Science ranges from the fundamentals of algorithms to applications such as building Internet scale systems. The study of Information Science bridges the social sciences and computing sciences ranging from investigations of user behavior to applications in the design of user interfaces and the development of social media. The study of Statistical Science ranges from mathematical fundamentals to large scale data analysis and modeling, with applications in areas from finance to data mining. This is an exciting time to be studying the computing and information sciences, and our approach in all three disciplines is to mix enduring fundamentals with applications across a broad range of areas. At the graduate level, Cornell Bowers CIS offers both professional masters and doctoral degrees in all three disciplines, as well as participating actively in several interdisciplinary graduate fields such as Applied Math, Cognitive Science and Computational Biology. The graduate programs in Cornell Bowers CIS are among the strongest in the country, and both advanced undergraduates and graduate students benefit from a range of advanced courses. General Information Departments, Programs of Study and Courses Faculty Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Global Search Courses of Study Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Departments & Fields of Study College Items College Content Entire Courses of Study Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Courses of Study Home Course Descriptions Colleges, Schools, and Units Agriculture and Life Sciences Architecture, Art and Planning Arts and Sciences Athletics and Physical Education Biological Sciences Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Brooks School of Public Policy Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Cornell Tech Division of Nutritional Sciences eCornell Engineering Graduate School Human Ecology Industrial and Labor Relations Law School Officer Education SC Johnson College of Business - Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management - Hotel Administration - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Veterinary Medicine My Favorites All courses of study © 2022 Cornell University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).