Skip to Content Search Search Search﻿﻿﻿ ﻿ Cornell University Registrar﻿ Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, B07 Day Hall. Ithaca, NY 14853 ‌Get Directions ‌ univreg@cornell.edu ‌ (607) 255-4232 ‌‌ (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University Courses of Study 2021-2022 Select a Courses of Study Courses of Study 2021-2022 Courses of Study through eCornell 2021-2022 Courses of Study 2020-2021 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2019-2020 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2018-2019 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2017-2018 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2016-2017 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2015-2016 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2014-2015 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2013-2014 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2012-2013 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2011-2012 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Jun 01, 2022 HELP Courses of Study 2021-2022 Courses of Study Help Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Catalog Codes and Definitions Searching the Courses of Study “On Demand” Courses Using the My Favorites Tool Contact Information Catalog Codes and Definitions General Definitions [ ] Brackets are used at the beginning and end of a course title if the course is not going to be offered within the current catalog year. Crosslisted Courses offered by multiple departments where the content and level are the same. Classes meet together. Co-meeting Courses which are similar in content, but offered at different levels (ex. undergraduate and graduate level). Classes meet together. Course Numbering and Subject Codes Learn more about Course Numbering and Subject Codes . Breadth Requirements Learn more about Arts and Sciences Breadth Requirements . Please note: Breadth codes are first searchable in the 2012-13 catalog. GB Geographic Breadth HB Historical Breadth GHB Geographic and Historical Breadth Course Attributes Please note: Course Attributes with “CU” prefix are first searchable in the 2015-16 catalog. Course Attributes with “EC” prefix are first searchable in the 2020-21 catalog. CU-CEL Community Engaged Learning Courses A course that includes an organized community-engaged activity outside the context of the classroom (all of the following): Addresses a specific need, problem, or common concern Includes collaboration with a community partner Is connected with course content and disciplinary perspectives Includes an exercise involving documented reflection. CU-ITL International Experience Courses Courses that possess one or more of the following attributes: Addresses an international or transnational theme, or uses an international comparative approach*, as a principal objective of the course. Incorporates a critical global perspective as a significant part of the course (e.g., as an organizing theme, a key unit or module, or a major feature of the course). Facilitates cross-cultural competence and understanding through incorporating student reflection and/or other pedagogical strategies, employed in an international context. Is conducted, at least in part, outside the U.S. Foreign language education courses. CU-SBY Sustainability Courses A sustainability course has the primary and explicit focus on sustainability as an integrated concept having social, economic, and environmental dimensions and/or on understanding or solving one or more major sustainability challenge. A course that includes sustainability is primarily focused on a topic other than sustainability, but incorporates a unit or module on sustainability or a sustainability challenge, includes one or more sustainability-focused activities, or integrates sustainability issues throughout the course. Sustainability should be handled as an integrated concept having social, economic, and environmental dimensions. CU-UGR Undergraduate Research Courses Semester-long for-credit courses that are: Independent, not classroom-based Cornell-faculty mentored Project-based (working on a short or long-term project with a particular outcome) Includes for-credit project team experiences (e.g., Engineering project teams) and all non-classroom based capstone projects. EC-LASP Einaudi Center-Latin American Studies Program Courses A Latin American Program course has a significant and explicit focus on Latin America (including South America, Central America, and the Caribbean), comprising at least 25% of regular course materials. These courses fulfill requirements for a Latin American studies course for students with a minor in Latin American Studies. This does not include Latin American language courses, which are listed under their respective subject codes. EC-SAP Einaudi Center-South Asia Program Courses A South Asia Program course has a significant and explicit focus on South Asia (India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Maldives, Bhutan, and Afghanistan), comprising at least 25% of regular course materials. These courses fulfill requirements for a South Asia area studies course for students with a Foreign Language and Area Studies (FLAS) fellowship. This does not include South Asian language courses, which are listed under their respective subject codes. EC-SEAP Einaudi Center-Southeast Asia Program Courses A Southeast Asia Program course has a significant and explicit focus on Southeast Asia (Brunei, Myanmar [Burma], Cambodia, East Timor, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam), comprising at least 25% of regular course materials. These courses fulfill requirements for a Southeast Asia area studies course for students with a Foreign Language and Area Studies (FLAS) fellowship. This does not include Southeast Asian language courses, which are listed under their respective subject codes. Distribution Requirements Learn more about Distribution Requirement Codes in the Schools and Colleges. “On Demand” Courses Courses which may be scheduled if there is sufficient student interest. Courses are offered at the discretion of the department and/or college. Searching the Courses of Study The Courses of Study search (top-left of navigation bar) allows quick retrieval of catalog and course information. Enter a search keyword or phrase and click on the magnifying glass. Using the Advanced Search Tool Refine your search by selecting only the check boxes for the types of data you wish to search. Check the Find Whole Word or Phrase Only check box to search for an exact match for a keyword or phrase. Click the Show Prefix List link to display a list of all course prefixes available in the Courses of Study. You may enter a keyword phrase that includes a course prefix and code (e.g. “ENGL 1270”) to better locate a specific course. Searching for Breadth, Distribution, and Attribute Codes To search for one or more of these codes, enter the specific code (e.g. GHB, CA-AS or CU-ITL) into the Search box and check the Find Whole Word or Phrase Only check box. Please note: Breadth codes are first searchable in the 2012-13 catalog. Attributes are first searchable in the 2015-2016 catalog. Using the Advanced Search feature allows for greater search refinement. For example, enter “CA-AS and Anthro” into the Advanced Search box, then only check the courses checkbox to limit your search to all courses that meet the Cultural Analysis requirement in the Department of Anthropology or that are cross-listed with Anthropology. Important! When reviewing search results, make sure the selected course has the requested code. Search results may return other letter combinations that do not constitute course codes, or other linked courses that do not meet the criteria for a specific code. Graduate-level courses that co-meet with a breadth or distribution course do not apply. Retaining Your Search Information Any user, including prospective and current students, faculty and staff, can save information found through searches or general navigation using the My Favorites tool. Using the My Favorites Tool To create a My Favorites account, choose My Favorites from the left hand navigation and click on the Create Account link. Enter a valid e-mail address and a password, and click the Create Account button to create the account. Adding and Removing Items To add items, click the Add to Favorites link next to the item in which you are interested. This will open a new popup window that displays all items currently in your Favorites. You may remove items from your Favorites by selecting the checkboxes next to them and clicking the Remove button. Please note: Items suffixed with the text [From Previous Courses of Study] are bookmarked from older, archived catalogs. Edit Your My Favorites Profile Edit My Favorites account information by logging into your account and clicking on the Edit Profile link at the top right. You may change your account login by entering a new e-mail address and clicking the Send button. To change your password, click on the Change Password link. A pop up window will prompt you for a new password. Enter a new password and confirmation and click the Reset button. When you are finished, you may close the pop up window. Contact Information The Courses of Study is published by the Office of the University Registrar. Contact us with questions or feedback at (607) 254-4795 or coursesofstudy@cornell.edu. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Global Search Courses of Study Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Departments & Fields of Study College Items College Content Entire Courses of Study Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Courses of Study Home Course Descriptions Colleges, Schools, and Units Agriculture and Life Sciences Architecture, Art and Planning Arts and Sciences Athletics and Physical Education Biological Sciences Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Brooks School of Public Policy Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Cornell Tech Division of Nutritional Sciences eCornell Engineering Graduate School Human Ecology Industrial and Labor Relations Law School Officer Education SC Johnson College of Business - Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management - Hotel Administration - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Veterinary Medicine My Favorites All courses of study © 2022 Cornell University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).