Powercat chevron double-chevron chat-purple news-purple briefcase-purple chart-purple home medal-purple computer window with a question mark close facebook linkedin menu search twitter youtube apply-purple apply-white chat-white request-purple request-white Jump to HeaderJump to Main ContentJump to Footer Kansas State University Connect Canvas OrgCentral Navigate KSIS HRIS Webmail Sign in Browse A-Z Academics Search Search Find your path. Start your journey. A degree from Kansas State University is an investment in your future. Explore our hundreds of programs, interest areas and career paths to find the one that best fits you. Wherever your passion leads you, we’ll help you get started. Discover your passion. Whatever your goals and passions may be, our academic interest areas will provide a clear map of your interests that share common pathways between industries, careers and more. Explore Interest Areas https://www.k-state.edu/academics/interest-areas/ Y purple medium-basic Explore Interest Areas Ready to browse majors and programs? With more than 250 undergraduate majors and programs and 165-plus graduate degrees and certificates led by expert faculty, you’re sure to find your fit at one of our four campuses. Explore Degrees https://www.k-state.edu/academics/majors-programs/ Y purple medium-basic Explore Degrees Not ready to choose a major? You don’t need to have it all figured out right now. Our many career exploration tools, Open Option program and academic resources will provide the support you need while you discover the major that moves you. Explore Options https://www.k-state.edu/academics/options/ Y purple medium-basic Explore Options No. 2 public university in the nation, Learn.org (2019) 900+ on-campus visits from global employers 97% placement rate for recent bachelor’s and master’s degree graduates Beyond the books The adventure of a lifetime awaits. All we need is you. Education AbroadGain a global perspective, academic credit and lifelong friends united in purple. Choose from hundreds of programs in more than 85 countries. ResearchIgnite your passion and hone your innovation and critical thinking skills in the lab, field or beyond. Research opportunities are available as early as your freshman year. InvolvementExpand your horizons and choose from 500-plus student organizations, including academic clubs, leadership/service groups, multicultural organizations and more. Everything you need, from A to Z Academic resources Enroll in a class Participate in class What's happening now 1,400+ full-time faculty 3 national CASE/Carnegie professors of the year 19:1 student-to-faculty ratio Learn from the brilliant minds that write the textbooks Many of our expert faculty are leading scholars who have made outstanding contributions in their field. Meet our faculty A Legacy of Access, Opportunity and Success As the nation’s first operational land-grand university, Kansas State University has long maintained a legacy of access, opportunity and success for all. We hold a firm dedication to fostering an inclusive, welcoming atmosphere for students, staff and faculty from all walks of life. You are welcome here apply-white chat-white request-white How to Apply Request Info Visit Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 | k-state@k-state.edu Contact Us Emergency Statements and Disclosures Accessibility KBOR Free Expression Statement © Kansas State University Updated Updated: 8/3/20