Skip to Content Search Search Search﻿﻿﻿ ﻿ Cornell University Registrar﻿ Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, B07 Day Hall. Ithaca, NY 14853 ‌Get Directions ‌ univreg@cornell.edu ‌ (607) 255-4232 ‌‌ (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University Courses of Study 2021-2022 Select a Courses of Study Courses of Study 2021-2022 Courses of Study through eCornell 2021-2022 Courses of Study 2020-2021 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2019-2020 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2018-2019 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2017-2018 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2016-2017 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2015-2016 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2014-2015 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2013-2014 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2012-2013 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2011-2012 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Jun 01, 2022 HELP Courses of Study 2021-2022 University Registration Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) University registration is the official recognition of a student’s relationship with the University and is the basic authorization for a student’s access to campus resources. Completion of registration is essential to enable the University to plan for and provide education and services, guided by the highest standards for efficiency. The University assumes certain legal responsibilities for persons who participate as students in the University environment. As a result, specific requirements must be met in order to become a registered student. All students must be registered, including those studying off-campus or in absentia. To become a registered student at Cornell University, a person must: settle all financial accounts, including current semester tuition, satisfy annual Financial Responsibility Agreement, and have no registration holds from their college or the Bursar. Note: The requirements must be met by the end of the third week of the term. There will be a $350 late fee assessed to students who register after the third week of the term. Specific deadline dates may be found on the University Registrar website. Enrollment in courses does not constitute or imply University registration. Cornell University reserves the right to withdraw a student at any point. Provisions for students using veterans benefits: In accordance with Title 38 US Code 3679 subsection (e), Cornell University adopts the following additional provisions for any students using U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Post 9/11 G.I. Bill® (Ch. 33) or Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (Ch. 31) benefits, while payment to the institution is pending from the VA. The University will not: Prevent nor delay the student’s enrollment; Assess a late penalty fee to the student; Require the student to secure alternative or additional funding; Deny the student access to any resources available to other students who have satisfied their tuition and fee bills to the institution, including but not limited to access to classes, libraries, or other institutional facilities. However, to qualify for this provision, such students may be required to: Produce the Certificate of Eligibility by the first day of class; Provide written request to be certified; Provide additional information needed to properly certify the enrollment as described in other institutional policies. Failure to register: A hold will be placed on a student’s record if they fail to become registered. The student will not be allowed to participate in enrollment for subsequent semesters and risks being withdrawn from the University at the end of the semester. If a student meets registration requirements the hold will be lifted and the student will be allowed to participate in enrollment activities for the subsequent semester if their enrollment window has not closed. Once the hold is removed the student will be assessed a late registration fee. If the student fails to meet registration requirements by the end of the semester, the student will be withdrawn from the University and will not allowed to return for subsequent semesters until they satisfy all registration requirements. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Global Search Courses of Study Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Departments & Fields of Study College Items College Content Entire Courses of Study Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Courses of Study Home Course Descriptions Colleges, Schools, and Units Agriculture and Life Sciences Architecture, Art and Planning Arts and Sciences Athletics and Physical Education Biological Sciences Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Brooks School of Public Policy Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Cornell Tech Division of Nutritional Sciences eCornell Engineering Graduate School Human Ecology Industrial and Labor Relations Law School Officer Education SC Johnson College of Business - Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management - Hotel Administration - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Veterinary Medicine My Favorites All courses of study © 2022 Cornell University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).