University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Hello Guest Login University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Hello Guest Login Course Explorer Enter and go to subject for the enrolling term Go! Course Explorer Toggle navigation Home Schedule GenEd REQs Search Resources Course Explorer Resources for Summer and Fall 2022 class registration are available on the Registrar's website. A new resource provides contact information to request a registration override for various courses if needed. All new undergraduate students are required to participate in New Student Registration to enroll in Fall courses. The Course Explorer provides the schedule of classes by term and a browsable database of general education requirements in addition to other resources. For Course Catalog and Programs of Study, please visit the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Academic Catalog, which maintains the official listing of courses, program, and degree requirements for undergraduate and graduate students. Class Schedule Browse the schedule of classes for course information, times, locations, and instructors listed by semester. General Education Requirements Browse core requirements students must satisfy in order to graduate. Search Course Explorer Search the Class Schedule and General Education Requirements. Registration Resources Various links to helpful informational resources concerning registration. Popular Course Resources Academic Catalog The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Academic Catalog. Browse the official listing of courses, programs, and degree requirements. Courses of Instruction A list of all available courses in the Academic Catalog. Changing Majors Detailed information regarding major requirements, application timelines, and contact information organized by college. Self-Service Registration, financial aid, account and contact information for students. Class rosters, teaching schedules and contact information for faculty. Course Resources Academic Calendars Academic Deadlines Changing Majors (Undergraduate) Final Exam Information How to Declare a Minor Language Requirements Registration Time Ticket Schedule Registration Procedures Refund and Withdrawal Deadlines Reverse Transfer of Credit Textbook Listings University Resources Records and Registration Info Campus Services Campus Maps Campus Units A-Z Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Student Code Graduate College-Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Academic Catalog Office of the Registrar Register for Classes myillini Course Explorer Tips OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR | 901 W. Illinois Street, Suite 140, Urbana, Illinois 61801 Site developed by: Technology Services at Illinois | UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN 1102 Digital Computer Laboratory | MC-256 | Urbana, IL 61801 | phone 217-244-7000 | email Course Explorer Feedback Web Privacy Notice Cookie Settings Course Explorer works best with JavaScript enabled