Javascript is currently not supported, or is disabled by this browser. Please enable Javascript for full functionality. Skip to Content Acalog ACMS™ Online Help Close Window This document contains help on the following topics: Selecting a Different Courses of Study Searching the Courses of Study Search Options Browsing the Courses of Study Printing Pages of the Courses of Study Using the Favorites Feature Create a Favorites Account Login and Logout of Favorites Feature Edit Your Favorites Profile For additional help, please contact Support. 1. Selecting a Different Courses of Study BACK TO TOP There may be more than one courses of study available from the Cornell University system e-catalog Gateway at a time. If there is more than one, you will see a dropdown box toward the top of the page with the name of the current courses of study. Clicking the dropdown box provides access to other available courses of study. Selecting an alternate courses of study will load it into the Gateway. If you do not see the dropdown box, then only a single courses of study is currently published. You may add information from any of the available courses of study to your own personal Favorites. See below to learn more about Using the Favorites Feature. 2. Searching the Courses of Study BACK TO TOP The Courses of Study Search (shown at the top of the navigation) allows quick retrieval of courses of study content that matches your interests. To use the Courses of Study Search, simply enter a search keyword or phrase and press ENTER. The search will find any matching content in the courses of study including courses, departments & fields of study, colleges, schools, and units, departments or other narrative content. 2.1. Search Options BACK TO TOP Search options are available by clicking on the Advanced Search link below the regular search form or by clicking the Modify Search Options link after performing a search. The search options offer more precise searching of the courses of study content. To limit your search to only specific types of courses of study content, check only the checkboxes for content categories you wish to include in your search. Check the "Whole Word/Phrase" check box to search for an exact match for a keyword or phrase. For instance, entering "bio" will only return hits in which the term "bio" stands alone; it will not return any instances of the term "biology". The same is true if you enter a phrase. Click "Show Prefix List" to display a list of all course prefixes available in the courses of study. You may enter a keyword phrase that includes a course prefix and code (like "ENG 101") to better locate a specific course. The closest available matches will be returned first. Click the Search button to perform the search. 3. Browsing the Courses of Study BACK TO TOP Overview You may easily browse through the courses of study by using the different navigation links on the right side of the page. Each courses of study may have its own distinct set of navigation links. Some links may display pages about the courses of study or other related information. Other links may display listings of courses or departments & fields of study within the courses of study. These navigation links may display other information that is broken down by various methods such as by colleges, schools, and units, by departments, or by departments & fields of study, or course types. Some pages may show "Go to Information..." links following a colleges, schools, and units or department which, when clicked, will display more information about that colleges, schools, and units or department. Course and departments & fields of study titles are almost always shown as links. Clicking on a course title will display course information below the course title about the course and a link to Add to Favorites (course information may be shown in a pop up window if you have an older browser). Clicking on a departments & fields of study title will display all the related information for the departments & fields of study as well as the Add departments & fields of study to Favorites link. Clicking on the Add to Favorites link will add information to your Favorites for later retrieval. See below to learn more about Using the Favorites Feature. FlashPoint™ Links Some colleges, schools, and units, departments, departments & fields of study, and courses may have FlashPoint Links associated with them that may be a text link or a click-able graphic. These FlashPoint Links are links to an additional digital resource. The digital resource may be another web page, a text document, audio, video, or many other types of media and may require a special browser plug-in. To view a FlashPoint Link, simply click on it. All FlashPoint Links will be displayed in a new pop up window. 3.1. Printing Pages of the Courses of Study BACK TO TOP To print a page click the print link. The "Print Friendly" version will open up with just the content of the page in it (no navigation or header). If you click the print link on a "Print Friendly" page the browser will popup with the print dialog allowing you to print that page. Problems with Gateway Print Links If your browser does not support the print link you may need to use the operating system or web browser's built in print functions instead. 4. Using the Favorites Feature BACK TO TOP You may add items to your own personal Favorites as you browse through the online courses of study. The Favorites feature will retain a list of courses, departments & fields of study, pages, divisions and saved searches that you have found interesting and wish to save for future visits to the online Cornell University courses of study. To add items click the Add to Favorites link or star icon next to the item in which you are interested. This will open a new popup window that displays all items currently in your Favorites. You may remove items from your Favorites by selecting the checkboxes next to them and clicking the Remove button. Note: Items suffixed with the text [From Previous Courses of Study] are from older, outdated courses of study that are no longer available. You will need to search within newer courses of study to find alternative information to replace them. The Favorites feature is based on an account system. You must sign up in order to permanently store items in the Favorites feature. The Favorites feature will store your favorite items using a combination of temporary and permanent storage in a database. This method requires that you register an account and login to permanently save information in the Favorites. Items are still stored temporarily in the database until you login to your Favorites. Once you login, any temporary information will be saved into your account for permanent storage. 4.1. Create a Favorites Account BACK TO TOP To create a Favorites account, simply choose My Favorites from the right hand navigation and click on the create an account link. Now enter a valid e-mail address and a password. If you wish to have an admissions advisor contact you, select the contact checkbox. An advisor will contact you via e-mail. When done, click the Create Account button to create the account. Note: it is important to use a valid e-mail address in case you ever forget your password. The account will be created and you will be logged in automatically. Any items you had already added to your Favorites will now be stored permanently in your account. 4.2. Login and Logout of the Favorites Feature BACK TO TOP To login to your Favorites account, simply choose My Favorites from the right hand navigation, enter your e-mail address and password and click the Login button. If you have forgotten your password, just enter your e-mail address and click the Reset Password button. An email will be sent to the email address you used to sign up for your My Favorites account with a link that will enable you to reset your password. To logout, simply view your Favorites and click the Logout link at top right. 4.3. Edit Your Favorites Profile BACK TO TOP To edit your Favorites account information, login to your Favorites account and click on the Edit Profile link at the top right of the Favorites feature. You may change your account login by entering a new e-mail address and clicking the Send button. To change your password, click on the Change Password link. A pop up window will prompt you for a new password. Enter a new password and confirmation and click the Reset button. When you are finished, you may close the pop up window. Print this page. All courses of study © 2022 Cornell University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).