Skip to Content Search Search Search﻿﻿﻿ ﻿ Cornell University Registrar﻿ Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, B07 Day Hall. Ithaca, NY 14853 ‌Get Directions ‌ univreg@cornell.edu ‌ (607) 255-4232 ‌‌ (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University Courses of Study 2021-2022 Select a Courses of Study Courses of Study 2021-2022 Courses of Study through eCornell 2021-2022 Courses of Study 2020-2021 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2019-2020 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2018-2019 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2017-2018 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2016-2017 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2015-2016 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2014-2015 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2013-2014 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2012-2013 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2011-2012 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Jun 01, 2022 HELP Courses of Study 2021-2022 Brooks School of Public Policy Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Public policy is about sustaining, changing, and improving the world. The Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy’s (SPP) mission is to produce scholarship and educate students in evidence-based knowledge that can be harnessed for societal good. Our students learn valuable domain knowledge from a range of disciplines, as well as critical thinking and professional skills that serve to make them successful in careers in the public, private, and non-profit sectors. The SPP faculty include experts on every region of the world, who work on policy issues as diverse as nuclear security, forced migration, democratic resilience, economic policymaking, and climate change. Faculty in Brooks School of Public Policy are drawn from a range of disciplines and have joint appointments in Colleges across the University, including the College of Human Ecology, the College of Arts and Sciences, the School of Industrial and Labor Relations, the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, and the Law School. The School of Public Policy offers a comprehensive suite of educational programming, covering undergraduate, doctoral, and professional degrees. These degrees draw on strengths from across the university in areas including data science and technology policy; environmental and sustainability policy; health policy; inequality and social policy; human security; and politics and economics of development. As the School evolves, these areas of strength will be formalized in the SPP’s educational programs as concentrations, focus areas, and coursework options from which students can choose in crafting their degree plans. Educational programs also emphasize a thematic focus on race, racism, and public policy that is woven throughout the curricula, as well as a common emphasis on engagement and experiential learning across degree programs. Undergraduates studying policy analysis and management and health care policy are part of the new school, joining professional students enrolled in the Cornell Institute for Public Affairs and the Sloan Program in Health Administration, as well as in the doctoral program in policy analysis and management. Administration Colleen L. Barry, Ph.D., Dean S. Sassler, Director of Undergraduate Studies L. Tach, Director of Graduate Studies M. Fitzpatrick, Director of Cornell Institute for Public Affairs T. O’Toole, Executive Director of Cornell Institute for Public Affairs S. Nicholson, Director of Sloan Program J. Carmalt, Associate Director of Sloan Program M. Thompson, Director of Sloan Program Executive Education Learn More Programs & Course Offerings Policies, Procedures, Student Services & Supports Special Academic Options Faculty Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Global Search Courses of Study Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Departments & Fields of Study College Items College Content Entire Courses of Study Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Courses of Study Home Course Descriptions Colleges, Schools, and Units Agriculture and Life Sciences Architecture, Art and Planning Arts and Sciences Athletics and Physical Education Biological Sciences Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Brooks School of Public Policy Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Cornell Tech Division of Nutritional Sciences eCornell Engineering Graduate School Human Ecology Industrial and Labor Relations Law School Officer Education SC Johnson College of Business - Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management - Hotel Administration - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Veterinary Medicine My Favorites All courses of study © 2022 Cornell University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).